CARROLL COUNTY, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-0722C, passed 7-22-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Carroll County Code,” for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code”
may be substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, and section and division heads
or titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of the state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNTY. Carroll County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of the state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The County Judge/Executive.
(KRS 83A.010(6) and KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   FISCAL COURT. The county legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Fiscal Court.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. An officer of the Fiscal Court.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; county, state, or federal
government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the county.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of the
Fiscal Court.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of the Fiscal Court in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that the
Fiscal Court would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of the
Fiscal Court.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of the Fiscal Court as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
the Fiscal Court which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of the Fiscal Court, as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of the Fiscal Court repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Fiscal
Court, or a certain county officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until the Fiscal Court shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
32.   SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
34.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
35.   BOARDS AND ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Magisterial district boundaries
   
30.02   Personnel policies
§ 30.01 MAGISTERIAL DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundary lines of the existing commissioner’s districts and the
accompanying maps have been adopted herein by reference as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2023-0627, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 30.02 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The personnel policies of the county have been adopted herein by reference
as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2019-0827, passed 8-27-2019; Ord. 2023-0711, passed 7-
11-2023; Ord. 2023-1010, passed 10-10-2023; Ord. 2023-1212B, passed 12-12-2023;
Ord. 2024-0213A, passed 2-13-2024; Ord. 2024-0213B, passed 2-13-2024; Ord.
2024-0213C, passed 2-13-2024; Ord. 2024-0924, passed 9-24-2024; Ord. 2025-
0624A, passed 6-24-2025; Ord. 2025-0722B, passed 6-24-2025; Ord. 2025-0722C,
passed 7-22-2025)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
Emergency Management
   
31.01   Creation
   
31.02   Emergency Management Director
   
31.03   Authority; powers
Search and Rescue
   
31.15   Search and Rescue
 
   
31.99   Penalty
**** EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ****
§ 31.01 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the County Office of Emergency Management, in
accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A through 39F, which shall
serve in the interest of public safety within the territorial boundaries of the
county.
   (B)   The County Office of Emergency Management shall develop, implement,
and maintain the local comprehensive emergency management program for the
county in accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A through 39F, the
comprehensive emergency management program requirements of the State Division
of Emergency Management, the provisions of the State Emergency Operations Plan,
administrative regulations promulgated by the Division of Emergency Management
and the resolutions, order, or ordinances of the Fiscal Court.
   (C)   The County Office of Emergency Management shall be an organizational
unit of county government attached to the office of the County Judge/Executive
and shall have primary jurisdiction, responsibility, and authority for all
matters pertaining to the comprehensive emergency management program and
disaster and emergency response of the county.
   (D)   The County Office of Emergency Management shall meet all requirements
of a local emergency management agency as defined in KRS Chapters 39A through
39F, and shall be the administrative branch of the County Disaster and
Emergency Services organization established pursuant to KRS Chapters 39A
through 39F.
   (E)   The County Judge/Executive shall designate and include a separate
Office of Emergency Management budget unit classification within each annual
county budget, and all financial matters of the County Office of Emergency
Management shall be handled through the County Treasury and uniform budget
system.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. passed 2-9-1999)
§ 31.02 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The County Judge/Executive, within 30 days of assuming office, shall
appoint a County Emergency Management Director in accordance with the
provisions of KRS Chapter 39B, and shall immediately notify the State Division
of Emergency Management of the appointment.
   (B)   The County Emergency Management Director, appointed pursuant to this
section, shall be sworn by oath to the office of Emergency Management Director
immediately upon appointment, and shall serve at the pleasure of the County
Judge/Executive, but shall serve no longer than four consecutive years without
reappointment and, as a minimum, shall meet all the qualification requirements
specified in KRS Chapters 39A through 39F.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. passed 2-9-1999)
§ 31.03 AUTHORITY; POWERS.
   The County Emergency Management Director shall have and exercise all the
powers, authorities, rights, and duties as specified in KRS Chapters 39A
through 39F, and in the orders or ordinances of the Fiscal Court to include the
following:
   (A)   To represent the County Judge/Executive on all matters pertaining to
the comprehensive emergency management program and the disaster and emergency
response of the county;
   (B)   To be the executive head and chief administrative officer of the
County Office of Emergency Management and direct, control, supervise, and
manage the development, preparation, organization, administration, operation,
implementation, and maintenance of the comprehensive emergency management
program of the county, and to coordinate all disaster and emergency response of
the county;
   (C)   To develop, update, and maintain the County Emergency Operations Plan
in compliance with the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A through 39F;
   (D)   To establish, maintain, and coordinate or direct the County Disaster
and Emergency Services Organization in accordance with the provisions of the
County Emergency Operations, the State Emergency Operations Plan, and the
provisions of KRS Chapters 39A through 39F;
   (E)   To notify the County Judge/Executive and the State Division of
Emergency Management immediately of the occurrence, or threatened or impending
occurrence, of any emergency, disaster, or catastrophic incident or situation,
and provide in such notice an assessment of possible or actual damages or
threats to life, health, safety, property, or the environment, and recommend
any emergency actions or orders which should be executed;
   (F)   To be the chief advisor to, and the primary on-scene representative
of, the County Judge/Executive in the event of any emergency declared
emergency, disaster, or catastrophe within the county;
   (G)   To respond and have full access to the scenes of an emergency,
declared emergency, disaster, or catastrophe and immediately investigate,
analyze, or access the nature, scope, or seriousness of all situation;
coordinate the establishment and operation of an incident command or management
system; execute the provisions of the County Emergency Operations Plan;
activate the County Emergency Operations Center or on-scene command post;
convene meeting, gather information, and conduct briefing; notify the County
Judge/Executive and the State Division of Emergency Management immediately of
the nature, scope, or seriousness of any emergency situation and provide
information on all on-going response actions being taken in association with
the incident; provide any assistance requested, as deemed necessary or
appropriate; and take any action to fully expedite and coordinate the disaster
and emergency response of all local public or private agencies, department,
units, or individuals;
   (H)   To take or direct immediate actions to protect public safety at the
direction of the County Judge/Executive during any declared emergency or
disaster;
   (I)   To act as an official representative of the State Division of
Emergency Management when specifically requested by the State Director;
   (J)   To report directly to the County Judge/Executive and act in an
official policymaking capacity when carrying out all duties of the office of
Emergency Management Director;
   (K)   To have full signatory authority, in accordance with the county’s
administrative code, for execution of all contracts, agreements, or other
official documents pertaining to the administration, organization, and
operation of the County Office of Emergency Management and the local
comprehensive emergency management program;
   (L)   To direct all paid or volunteer employees, staff assistants, or other
workers of the County Office of Emergency Management, and supervise any
operating units and personnel associated with it which are officially appointed
and affiliated with the County Disaster and Emergency Services Organization
pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A through 39F;
   (M)   To prepare and submit regular or scheduled program activity reports to
the area manager of the State Division of Emergency Management and the County
Judge/Executive;
   (N)   To execute bond in the amount as determined by the County Judge/
Executive, when directed by the County Judge/Executive;
   (O)   To prepare and submit to the County Judge/Executive, on an annual
basis by March 1, a program and agency budget request for the County Office of
Emergency Management;
   (P)   To prepare and submit to the State Division of Emergency Management,
on an annual basis by July 15, a fiscal year program paper and budget request
for the County Office of Emergency Management;
   (Q)   To enroll and be a register member of the State Emergency Management
Association;
   (R)   To perform the duties of, or appoint with the approval of the Fiscal
Court, the County Search and Rescue Coordinator pursuant to the provisions of
KRS Chapter 39F; and
   (S)   To perform all administrative, organizational, or operational tasks
required pursuant to KRS Chapters 39A through 39F, state administrative
regulations, the State Emergency Operations Plan, or program guidance issued by
the State Division of Emergency Management; and to carry out all other
emergency management-related duties as required by the resolutions, orders, or
ordinances of the Fiscal Court, the executive orders of the County Judge/
Executive and the provisions of the County Emergency Operations Plan.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. passed 2-9-1999)
**** SEARCH AND RESCUE ****
§ 31.15 SEARCH AND RESCUE.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County Search and Rescue, which shall
be a rescue squad as defined in KRS Chapter 39F, and shall be vested with
powers pursuant to KRS Chapter 39F not otherwise inconsistent with this
subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 39F, the County Search and Rescue shall enter
into an affiliation agreement with the Fiscal Court.
   (C)   The County Search and Rescue shall develop and maintain bylaws, which
shall be approved by the Fiscal Court. Any subsequent amendments to said bylaws
must be approved by the Fiscal Court.
   (D)   The County Search and Rescue shall be under the direct supervision and
control of the County Emergency Management Director.
   (E)   Membership in the County Search and Rescue shall be by application and
only granted upon approval by the County Emergency Management Director.
Membership rights in the County Search and Rescue may be revoked by the County
Emergency Management Director, subject to the approval of the County Judge/
Executive.
   (F)   All members of the County Search and Rescue must meet annual training
requirements as set forth by the County Emergency Management Director.
   (G)   Any equipment, supplies, and/or property of the County Search and
Rescue shall be deemed as the property of the Fiscal Court.
   (H)   All financial accounts and functions for the County Search and Rescue
shall be administered by the County Treasurer and subject to the review and
oversight of the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 2015-, passed 5-15-2015)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
31.01 through
31.03, or any lawful orders, rules, or regulations promulgated to it, upon
conviction shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. Violators of §§
31.01 through
31.03 may be issue a citation by the County Sheriff or by a duly authorized
official.
(Prior Code, § 31.99) (Ord. passed 2-9-1999)
CHAPTER 32: SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
Section
Domestic Violence Policy
   
32.01   Introduction
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Purpose
   
32.04   Policy
   
32.05   Communications; general responsibilities
   
32.06   On-scene investigation, arrest, and post-arrest procedures
   
32.07   Obtaining warrants and/or protective orders
   
32.08   Duty to victim whether or not an arrest has been made
   
32.09   Special circumstances
   
32.10   Other related matters
   
32.11   Federal Violence Against Women Act; federal crimes
**** DOMESTIC VIOLENCE POLICY ****
§ 32.01 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Domestic violence is a serious crime against the individual and the
community.
   (B)   The failure of any law enforcement officer to properly respond and
handle a domestic call, no matter how frequent, will expose individuals and the
community to danger up to and including death. Because domestic violence can
and does result in the death of individuals, every response to a domestic call,
no matter how often, shall be treated the same as any other crime against a
person and shall be treated as one in which a substantial risk of serious harm
or death exists.
   (C)   Every response to a domestic call shall include a substantive
investigation of the incident, which shall involve the gathering of background
information, the gathering of physical evidence including pictures, clothing,
and statements from direct and indirect witnesses (including children and
neighbors).
   (D)   Every response to a domestic call, no matter how frequent, requires
that every step possible be taken to ensure the safety of the victim, including
provision of a safety plan to the victim and, if necessary, transportation of
the victim and children, if necessary and appropriate, to another site for
safekeeping.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUSE and NEGLECT. The infliction of physical pain, injury or mental injury,
or the deprivation of services by a caretaker which are necessary to maintain
the health and welfare of an adult, or a situation in which an adult, living
alone, is unable to provide or obtain for himself or herself the services which
are necessary to maintain his or her health or welfare, or a situation in which
a person inflicts physical pain or injury upon a spouse or deprives a spouse of
reasonable services necessary to maintain the health and welfare of his or her
spouse.
(KRS 209.020)
   ABUSED OR NEGLECTED CHILD.
      (1)   A child whose health and welfare is harmed or threatened with harm
when his or her parent, guardian, or other person exercising custodial control
or supervision of the child, inflicts or allows to be inflicted upon the child
physical or emotional injury by other than accidental means; commits or allows
to be committed an act of sexual abuse, sexual exploitation, or prostitution
upon the child; creates or allows to be created a risk that an act of sexual
abuse, sexual exploitation, or prostitution will be committed upon the child;
abandons or exploits the child; does not provide the child with adequate care,
supervision, food, clothing, shelter, and education or medical care necessary
for the child’s well-being.
      (2)   A parent or other person exercising custodial control or
supervision of the child legitimately practicing his or her religious beliefs
shall not be considered a negligent parent solely because he or she fails to
provide specified medical treatment for a child for that reason alone.
      (3)   This exception shall not preclude a court from ordering necessary
medical services for a child.
(KRS 600.020(1))
   ADULT. A person 18 years of age or older or a married person without regard
to age, who because of mental or physical dysfunction or who is the victim of
abuse or neglect inflicted by a spouse, is unable to manage his or her own
resources, carry out the activities of daily living or protect himself or
herself from neglect, hazardous or abusive situations without assistance from
others, and may be in need of protective services.
(KRS 209.020(4))
   AVAILABLE RIGHTS AND SERVICES. Information about criminal complaint
procedures, availability, and enforcement of civil protective orders,
availability of emergency shelter services, protective services of the
Department of Social Services, Cabinet for Families and Children, Women’s
Crisis Center, and other community resources.
   COURSE OF CONDUCT. A pattern of conduct composed of two or more acts,
evidencing a continuity of purpose; it does not include constitutionally
protected activity.
(KRS 508.130(2))
   DEPENDENT CHILD. Any child, other than an abused or neglected child, who is
under improper care, custody, control, or guardianship that is not due to an
intentional act of the parent, guardian, or person exercising custodial control
or supervision of the child.
(KRS 600.020)
   DOMESTIC DISTURBANCE OR DISPUTE CALL. A call involving an argument or
disagreement between family members, unmarried couples, or household members.
   DOMESTIC VIOLENCE and ABUSE. Not only causing physical injury, serious
physical injury, sexual abuse, or assault between family members of members of
an unmarried couple, but also causing fear of such imminent physical injury,
serious physical injury, sexual abuse, or assault.
(KRS 403.720(1))
   DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CALL. A call where an adult, child, or family member, or
member of an unmarried couple is alleged to be the victim of:
      (1)   Physical injury or fear of imminent physical injury, including
explicit or implied threats;
      (2)   Sexual abuse or fear of imminent sexual abuse;
      (3)   Unlawful imprisonment or kidnaping;
      (4)   Property crime;
      (5)   Stalking; and/or
      (6)   Violation of the terms or conditions of a protective order, (i.e.,
these calls are the types which, by statute, must be reported to the Department
of Social Services on a JC-3 form).
   DOMESTIC VIOLENCE ORDER (DVO). A court order issued under the provisions of
KRS 403.750 following a hearing against a family member or a member of an
unmarried couple where the court has found violence has occurred and is likely
to occur again. In the state, a DVO is valid for up to three years. The date of
expiration should appear on the face of the order.
   EMERGENCY PROTECTIVE ORDER (EPO). An ex parte court order (an order issued
at the request of one party without a hearing) issued under the provisions of
KRS 403.740 against a family member of a member of an unmarried couple who has
been determined to present an immediate and present danger and which is valid
for up to 14 days. The expiration date should appear on the order.
   EXIGENT CIRCUMSTANCES.
      (1)   Those circumstances or emergencies which authorize officers to
enter a dwelling without consent or a warrant. Examples include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The pursuit of a fleeing felon;
         (b)   The imminent destruction of evidence;
         (c)   The need to prevent a suspect’s escape;
         (d)   The risk of danger to police or others; and/or
         (e)   Reasonable belief that a person inside is in need of immediate
protection or assistance.
      (2)   In assessing the risk of danger, the officer should consider the
seriousness of the crime and the likelihood that the suspect is armed.
(Minnesota v. Olson, 110 S. Ct. 1684 (1990))
   EXPLOITATION. The improper use of an adult or an adult’s resources by a
caretaker or other person for the profit or advantage of the caretaker or other
person.
(KRS 209.020)
   FAMILY MEMBER. Spouse, ex-spouse, parent, grandparent, child, stepchild,
grandchild, brother, sister, son- or daughter-in-law, parent of spouse,
grandparent of spouse, brother or sister of spouse, or any other person related
by blood or marriage within the second degree of consanguinity.
(KRS 403.720(2) and 431.005(2))
   FOREIGN PROTECTIVE ORDER (FPO). Any judgment, decree, or order of protection
issued by a court of any state of the United States or tribal court which is
entitled to full faith and credit in the state pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 2265.
FPO shall be enforced as written, even if they contain provisions which could
not otherwise be issued by a state court.
(KRS 403.7521(1))
   IMMINENT. Impending danger, and, in the context of domestic violence and
abuse as defined by KRS 403.720, belief that danger is IMMINENT can be inferred
from a past pattern of repeated serious abuse.
(KRS 503.010(3))
   LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Any agency of state, county, city, or metropolitan
government, or a combination of these, responsible for employing and directing
the action of peace officers, including sheriffs and their deputies, sworn
police officers, sworn enforcement officers of the State Police or other duly
authorized state law enforcement agency whose officers are persons with
authority to make arrests under the provisions of KRS 403.760(2).
   MEMBER OF AN UNMARRIED COUPLE. Each member of an unmarried couple which
allegedly has a child in common, any children of that couple, or a member of an
unmarried couple who are living together or have formerly lived together.
(KRS 403.720(3) and 431.005(2)(c))
   MUTUAL PROTECTION ORDER (MPO).
      (1)   An order of protection against both the petitioner and respondent
only if each has filed a separate petition seeking protection against the
other. The order must be specific so as to make clear to any peace officer
which party has violated the order.
      (2)   Out-of-state MPOs are enforceable only if the issuing court has
made specific findings that each party in a separate order was entitled to an
order of protection.
   PEACE OFFICER. For the purposes of this policy, means all sworn police
officers, including, but not limited to, full-time sworn officers of the State
Police, a full-time sworn officer of the Kentucky Horse Park, a commissioned
full-time State Park Ranger, a full-time State Water Patrol Officer, a full-
time city or county police officer, a full-time university safety and security
officer appointed pursuant to KRS 164.950 to 164.970, a full-time city or
county police officer, a duly elected sheriff, a full-time paid deputy sheriff,
or a part-time paid law enforcement officer who has completed a State Law
Enforcement Council-approved education training program as prescribed by
statute.
   PERSON EXERCISING CUSTODIAL CONTROL OR SUPERVISION. A person or agency that
has assumed the role and responsibility of a parent or guardian for the child,
but that does not necessarily have legal custody of the child.
(KRS 600.020)
   PHYSICAL INJURY. Substantial physical pain or any impairment of physical
condition.
(KRS 500.080(13))
   PROBABLE CAUSE.
      (1)   To justify an arrest, PROBABLE CAUSE means facts and circumstances
within the officer’s knowledge which are sufficient to warrant a prudent
person, or one of reasonable caution, in believing in the circumstances shown,
that the suspect has committed, is committing, or is about to commit an
offense. PROBABLE CAUSE means more than a simple suspicion or a hunch. The
officer must have concrete facts or reliable information giving the officer a
reasonable belief that the suspect probably committed the crime.
      (2)   PROBABLE CAUSE is frequently referred to in case law and statutes
as REASONABLE GROUNDS.
      (3)   The victim’s statement is a factor that should be considered in
determining whether PROBABLE CAUSE exists. The officer shall use the JC-3 form
to document the evidence giving the officer probable cause to make the arrest
and/or report suspected abuse.
   SELF PROTECTION or PROTECTION OF ANOTHER. A person’s justifiable use of
physical force upon another person when the person believes such force is
necessary to defend himself or herself or a third person from the use or
imminent use of unlawful physical force by such other person.
   STALKING. An intentional course of conduct directed at a specific person
which seriously alarms, annoys, intimidates, or harasses; which serves no
legitimate person; and which would cause a reasonable person to suffer
substantial mental distress.
(KRS 508.130(1))
   VICTIM or COMPLAINANT. Any person who has been subjected to threats of or
actual domestic violence and abuse. This includes persons who, at the time, may
be reluctant to see the perpetrator arrested, file charges, or see the
perpetrator prosecuted.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Peace officer; arrest without warrant of sexual offenders, see KRS 431.005
(3)
   Protection of self or another, see KRS 503.050 and 503.070
   Protective orders, see KRS 403.735 and 403.740
§ 32.03 PURPOSE.
   The domestic violence policy of the County Sheriff’s Department is designed
to provide officers and support personnel with clear definitions, direction,
and guidelines for promoting and providing a consistent, effective response to
domestic violence crime in order to accomplish the following goals:
   (A)   Reduce the incidence and severity of crimes involving domestic
violence;
   (B)   Afford maximum protection and support to adult and child victims of
domestic violence through coordinated services of law enforcement and victim
assistance resources;
   (C)   Make arrests for violations of emergency protective orders, domestic
violence orders, foreign protective orders, or any violation of a condition of
release or bond when authorized by state law; and
   (D)   Reduce the risk of civil liability for officers, supervisors, and
administrators and the county.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 32.04 POLICY.
   (A)   To accomplish each of these goals, every officer shall:
      (1)   Make an arrest when authorized by state law as the preferred
response, instead of using dispute mediation, separation, or other police
intervention techniques;
      (2)   Treat all acts of domestic violence as criminal conduct;
      (3)   Respond with the same protection and sanctions for every domestic
violence incident, regardless of race, religion, creed, national origin,
gender, sexual orientation, disability, and socio-economic status, including
cases where any of the alleged parties may be a law enforcement officer, public
official, or prominent citizen;
      (4)   Immediately report all known or suspected cases of domestic
violence and abuse, adult abuse or child abuse as required by state law;
      (5)   Receive training on domestic violence as required by state law; and
      (6)   Document all actions taken (arrest or non-arrest) on the JC-3 form.
   (B)   The following facts shall not be considered as an independent
compelling reason not to arrest the perpetrator. These facts may be used as
background information to complete a domestic violence investigation for
prosecution:
      (1)   The marital status of the suspect and the victim;
      (2)   Whether or not the suspect lives on the premises with the victim
(except as may be necessary to qualify the parties as members of an unmarried
couple);
      (3)   Whether the victim has not obtained a protective order against the
perpetrator;
      (4)   The potential financial consequences of arrest;
      (5)   Whether there have been previous law enforcement responses to
domestic calls at this address;
      (6)   Verbal assurances that violence will cease;
      (7)   The victim’s emotional status;
      (8)   Whether or not physical injuries suffered by the victim can be
personally observed at the time of the law enforcement response;
      (9)   The location of the incident (i.e., public or private);
      (10)   Speculation that the victim may not follow through with the
prosecution, or that the arrest may not lead to a conviction;
      (11)   The victim’s initial reluctance regarding an officer-initiated
arrest;
      (12)   The fact that the victim and suspect are of the same gender; or
      (13)   The use of alcohol or drugs by either or both parties.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 32.05 COMMUNICATIONS; GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Calls of domestic violence in progress shall receive a high priority
response. Communications will:
      (1)   Use professional communications skills;
      (2)   Obtain all pertinent critical information utilizing the checklist
located at Appendix A, attached to the ordinance codified herein;
      (3)   Promptly relay all important information to the law enforcement
officer, including any information available through the LINK Domestic Violence
File;
      (4)   Update the responding officer with additional information obtained
from the caller by keeping him, her, or them on the line unless he, she, or
they perceive themselves to be in danger; and
      (5)   Dispatch two officers when available.
   (B)   Communications personnel should request the following information:
      (1)   Location of incident, victim, and perpetrator;
      (2)   Type of incident (verbal/physical);
      (3)   Need for emergency medical assistance, including injuries and
severity;
      (4)   Weapons involved and descriptions;
      (5)   Name and telephone number;
      (6)   Other persons involved, including children and witnesses;
      (7)   Perpetrator’s date of birth, social security number, previous
history of domestic violence including previous law enforcement responses,
outstanding warrants, and the like;
      (8)   Involvement of alcohol or drugs;
      (9)   Whether the perpetrator has left the scene, vehicle description,
direction of travel; and
      (10)   Apparent hazards to responders, including animals.
   (C)   Safety of complainant:
      (1)   Communications personnel should attempt to maintain telephone
contact with the complaining party in order to monitor the situation and
provide the most recent information until the officer arrives;
      (2)   If the complainant must leave the telephone to seek safety, the
caller should be advised to lay the phone down and not to disconnect so that
the communications personnel can monitor the situation;
      (3)   If the complainant is calling away from the scene, advise him, her,
or them to remain there until the law enforcement officer arrives and advise
the responding officer of their location;
      (4)   For officer safety update the responding officer with all new
information so he or she may approach the scene with as much information as
possible;
      (5)   Advise the responding officer of additional calls from the
residence including those requesting to cancel the call but do not advise the
officer to cancel the call; and
      (6)   Any interrupted or disconnected calls should be responded to if the
location is known.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 32.06 ON-SCENE INVESTIGATION, ARREST, AND POST-ARREST PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General responsibilities at the scene. When responding to domestic
violence calls, officers should:
      (1)   Respond promptly to the call, utilizing two officers when
available;
      (2)   Establish control;
      (3)   Assess the situation for risks to all parties, including children;
      (4)   Attend to the emergency medical needs of those involved;
      (5)   Interview parties and witnesses separately and away from the line
of sight or hearing of the perpetrator;
      (6)   Use direct quotes of witnesses and victims about his, her, or their
fears or concerns in the report of the incident;
      (7)   Effect an arrest of the perpetrator as the preferred response, if
legally possible;
      (8)   Seize any weapons used in the incident;
      (9)   Inform the victim of his, her, or their rights;
      (10)   Provide the victim with information on his, her, or their legal
remedies and victim services available for protection and safety planning;
      (11)   When necessary and appropriate, the officer should contact the
Women’s Crisis Center in cases in which the victim could benefit from its
services;
      (12)   Assist the victim in securing medical attention which shall
include arranging for the transportation of the victim to obtain medical
attention;
      (13)   Assist the victim in securing legal protection (warrant or
protective order), which may include transportation of the victim to obtain the
legal protection, if appropriate;
      (14)   Report all actual and suspected incidents of abuse to the Cabinet
for Families and Children, Department for Social Services, using the Child
Abuse, Adult Abuse, and Domestic Abuse Standard Report form (JC-3);
      (15)   If the exigent circumstances have ceased, obtain a consent to
search or obtain a search warrant, when appropriate;
      (16)   Collect and photograph all relevant evidence required for
successful protection, including use of the body map to document injuries;
      (17)   Arrange for follow-up photographs of the victim in order to
demonstrate the extent of the injuries that may later become more obvious;
      (18)   Attend to any children or dependent adults, or contact CFC or DSS
for such assistance, when necessary; and
      (19)   Check LINK and NCIC for outstanding warrants, history file on
protective orders, and whether any active EPOs, DVOs, or FPOs are in existence.
   (B)   Arrests.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   Arrest is the preferred response to domestic violence. All
arrests shall be conducted in conformity with state law and agency policies and
procedures.
         (b)   Warrantless arrest for domestic violence related felonies is the
preferred response.
      (2)   Misdemeanant arrests without a warrant.
         (a)   As long as there exists probable cause to believe an offender
has intentionally or wantonly caused injury to a family member or a member of
an unmarried couple, the officer may arrest for assault in the fourth degree.
(KRS 431.005(2)(a))
         (b)   The officer does not have to determine whether the offender will
present a danger or threat of danger to others if not immediately restrained in
order to effect an arrest for assault in the fourth degree.
(KRS 431.005(2)(a))
         (c)   The officer should make a reasonable effort to determine if
there is a prior history of misdemeanant assault charges, as a third or
subsequent charge results in penalty enhancement by one degree, regardless of
the identity of the prior victims.
         (d)   If there is probable cause to believe that any condition of a
bond or pre-trial release has been violated and the officer has verified that
the offender has had notice of the conditions, he or she shall arrest the
offender without a warrant.
(KRS 431.005(4))
      (3)   Emergency protective orders.
         (a)   EPOs are immediately enforceable only if the respondent has been
served or given notice of the contents.
         (b)   The law enforcement officer should check through the LINK
Domestic Violence File to verify service of the EPO.
         (c)   If personal service has not occurred, the officer shall
immediately give the respondent notice of the contents of the EPO.
         (d)   After notice has been given to the respondent, its terms are
binding and enforceable for subsequent acts.
         (e)   The law enforcement officer shall then make arrangements for
personal service of the EPO if possible and make notification to the
communications center of the Department and notification to the responsible
agency for LINK entry of the orders.
         (f)   Information regarding notice and arrangements for service shall
be marked on the JC-3 form.
      (4)   Domestic violence orders.
         (a)   DVOs shall be enforced immediately upon issuance.
         (b)   The officer shall make sure that the conditions for which an
arrest is made are prohibited in the DVO.
         (c)   All law enforcement officers should be aware that pursuant to
the carrying concealed deadly weapon statute, when an EPO or DVO is issued
pursuant to the provisions contained within KRS Chapter 403 against a person
holding such a CCDW license, the holder of such permit shall immediately
surrender the license to the court or to the officer serving the order.
(KRS 237.110(10))
      (5)   Foreign protective orders.
         (a)   All out-of-state protective orders shall be enforced as written,
including provisions which grant relief not available in the state.
         (b)   All FPOs are presumed valid upon presentation to the law
enforcement officer. FPOs do not have to have been entered into the LINK system
to be valid and enforceable.
         (c)   Some FPOs may have been filed of record and may be verified
through LINK.
         (d)   When a FPO is presented to the law enforcement officer by the
complainant, the officer shall determine whether the order is current and
determine whether the conduct complained of is prohibited by the order.
Recognizing that some FPOs do not have expiration dates on their face, the
officer shall accept the statement (written or oral) of the complainant that
the order is current.
         (e)   The officer shall inquire of the complainant whether the
protective order has been filed with the Circuit Clerk’s office. If so, it can
be further verified through the LINK system. If not, the FPO is still a valid
order of protection as long as the officer has completed those steps contained
within divisions (B)(3)(a) and (B)(3)(b) above.
         (f)   The officer shall assume that the respondent was given notice of
the FPO and its contents.
         (g)   If the officer has probable cause to believe the respondent has
violated the terms of the protective order, he or she shall arrest the
respondent as having violated a protective order.
         (h)   All peace officers shall make arrests for a violation of a FPO
in the same manner as a violation of an EPO or DVO as if it had been entered by
a state court. The charge shall be a violation of a protective order. This
shall not preclude the officer from arresting the perpetrator for other
violations of the State Penal Code.
         (i)   Law enforcement officers are not expected to be aware of any
changes to a FPO which are not clearly evidenced from the face of the order
itself, or, if the order is on LINK, if the changes are not indicated on LINK.
It is the obligation of the victim to notify the court of changes in the order.
      (6)   Mutual violence.
         (a)   Where the officer has probable cause to believe that two or more
persons committed a misdemeanor or felony, or it two or more persons make
complaints to the officer, the officer shall attempt to determine who was the
primary aggressor and whether one party acted in self-defense.
         (b)   The officer should arrest the primary aggressor.
         (c)   Where there is probable cause to believe that all parties are
equally responsible, the officer should contact his or her immediate supervisor
for assistance in a resolution.
         (d)   Officers should not use mutual arrests as a substitute for a
thorough investigation.
         (e)   Factors to consider in mutual violence situations to determine
the primary aggressor include the following:
            1.   The history of domestic disputes or violence between the
parties;
            2.   The degree of injury inflicted upon each person keeping in
mind that many injuries to the head and body may not be visible at that time;
            3.   Objective and testimonial evidence from the parties and other
persons at the scene including children;
            4.   Whether one person acted in self-defense;
            5.   The presence of fear of the parties involved and the level of
fear (who is afraid of whom); and
            6.   The likelihood of future injury.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 32.07 OBTAINING WARRANTS AND/OR PROTECTIVE ORDERS.
   (A)   When a crime involving domestic violence has allegedly been committed
and the officer is unable to arrest the alleged perpetrator under the
provisions discussed above, the officer shall assist the victim in obtaining an
arrest warrant and/or protective order.
   (B)   The officer may apply for an arrest warrant himself or herself when he
or she has sufficient information to establish probable cause.
   (C)   The officer should consult with his or her supervisor in effecting
such procedures where necessary.
   (D)   Prosecution is always the preferred response, even if the officer
himself or herself has to take the initiative.
   (E)   The victim’s non-cooperation shall not be considered when seeking
warrants.
   (F)   If the offense occurs after working hours, the Department will follow
the 24-hour access policy established by the court set forth in Appendix B to
the ordinance codified herein.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 32.08 DUTY TO VICTIM WHETHER OR NOT AN ARREST HAS BEEN MADE.
   (A)   Whether or not an arrest has been made, if the officer has reason to
suspect that a family member, member of an unmarried couple, or household
member has been the victim of domestic violence, the officer is required by KRS
403.785(2) to use all reasonable means necessary to prevent further domestic
violence, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Remaining at the scene as long as the officer reasonably suspects
there is danger to the physical safety of the individuals present without the
presence of a law enforcement officer;
      (2)   Assisting the victim in obtaining medical treatment, including
offering transportation or arranging for transportation of the victim to the
nearest medical treatment facility capable of providing the necessary
treatment; and
      (3)   Advising the victim of rights and services available within the
county and surrounding areas, including, but not limited to, verbal
notification of such services to ensure that the victim can understand the
information normally provided in print.
   (B)   In order to protect the victim and provide access to a safe
environment, the officer should:
      (1)   Provide a copy of a safety plan, if available; and
      (2)   Inform the person of local procedures for victim notification.
   (C)   Whether or not an arrest has been made, the officer shall report any
known or suspected adult or child abuse, neglect, or exploitation immediately,
or any known or suspected domestic violence or abuse within 48 hours, to the
Cabinet for Families and Children, Department for Social Services utilizing the
JC-3 form. Death of an adult or child does not relieve the officer of the
responsibility to report the circumstances surrounding the death related to
abuse or neglect.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 32.09 SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
   (A)   Agency assigned service of an EPO.
      (1)   EPOs assigned by the District or Circuit Court for service by this
agency shall receive high priority response. These orders shall be segregated
from other orders or warrants to be served.
      (2)   Upon service of the order on the respondent, the officer shall
immediately notify the communications center of this agency and, in turn, the
law enforcement agency in the issuing jurisdiction responsible for the entry of
the domestic violence protective orders on the LINK Domestic Violence File.
      (3)   The officer should promptly arrange for a copy of the order with
the verified service to be delivered to the entering agency for modification to
the LINK Domestic Violence File record.
   (B)   Offender or victim has left the scene.
      (1)   If probable cause exists that an alleged perpetrator has committed
an assault on a family member or member of an unmarried couple, or has violated
a protective order, a DVO or FPO, but the perpetrator has left the scene, the
responding officer shall interview all available witnesses, recording or
documenting such, and collect all available physical evidence.
      (2)   If the officer is unable to arrest the alleged perpetrator within a
reasonable time, the officer should assist the victim in seeking an arrest
warrant and/or EPO to deter future domestic violence.
      (3)   If probable cause exists that there has been an assault on a family
member or a member of an unmarried couple or that a protective order has been
violated, but the victim has left the scene, the responding officer shall, in
addition to investigating the offense at the scene, attempt to locate the
victim, determine whether the victim needs medical assistance and continue the
investigation where the victim is located.
      (4)   Effecting an arrest consistent with state law is the preferred
response even when one party or the other has left the scene. This may include
an arrest based on probable cause or the officer applying for an arrest warrant
himself or herself.
   (C)   Domestic violence perpetrator is a juvenile.
      (1)   Officers shall handle juvenile perpetrators of domestic violence in
the same manner as when the alleged perpetrator is an adult.
      (2)   If a juvenile is taken into custody, officers shall process the
juvenile under the provisions of the Juvenile Code, KRS Chapters 600 through
645.
      (3)   Officers should not release juvenile perpetrators at the scene.
      (4)   Officers should contact the Court Designated Worker (CDW) for an
alternative placement for the juvenile perpetrator.
   (D)   Special needs victims.
      (1)   Some domestic violence victims have special needs because of their
relationship to the perpetrator, limited physical or mental abilities, or some
other factor. These factors make it extremely difficult for them to report
their victimization, call for assistance, or participate fully in the
investigation and prosecution of his, her, or their case.
      (2)   The special needs victims may include:
         (a)   Pregnant women;
         (b)   Physically or mentally disabled persons;
         (c)   Alcoholic or chemically dependent persons;
         (d)   Adolescents; and/or
         (e)   Culturally diverse populations.
      (3)   Officers shall treat all victims respectfully and as seriously as
the victim of any other criminal case.
      (4)   Officers should refer these victims to specialized support services
to ensure the victim receives protection, physical assistance, medical
treatment, or other services as needed.
   (E)   Marital rape or sexual assault. Responding officers shall follow all
procedures relating to investigation and evidence collection (including
comprehensive rape examinations) where a sex offense is reported, regardless of
the relationship, including the fact that the victim is married to the alleged
perpetrator.
   (F)   Children, dependent adults, and elderly adults.
      (1)   Even where a spouse or partner is the primary victim, officers
shall take appropriate action on behalf of children, dependent adults, and
elderly adults at the scene who may be the direct or indirect victims of
violence.
      (2)   The Cabinet for Families and Children should be contacted for
assistance when appropriate.
   (G)   Domestic violence stalking.
      (1)   Officers should complete a full report and investigation where a
domestic violence victim alleges that he or she has been stalked.
      (2)   Officers should advise stalking victims to notify this agency
immediately upon the occurrence of subsequent incidents.
   (H)   Special relationship or prominent citizen.
      (1)   A responding officer shall notify his or her supervisor when he or
she responds to a domestic violence call involving a public official or
prominent citizen.
         (a)   A responding officer and supervisor shall apply this policy
equally to all members of the community.
         (b)   This applies whether the person is the victim or the
perpetrator.
      (2)   A responding officer shall notify his or her supervisor when he or
she responds to a domestic violence call involving law enforcement personnel.
         (a)   When possible, the investigation should be handled by an officer
at least one rank higher than the party involved.
         (b)   The investigating officer shall notify the highest ranking
officer on duty of the investigation.
      (3)   When a law enforcement officer is investigating a member of another
law enforcement agency, that investigating officer should notify the highest
ranking officer on duty of the agency with whom the officer under investigation
is employed. This applies whether the person is the victim or the perpetrator.
   (I)   Duty to warn.
      (1)   Officers who receive warnings from mental health professionals
under the provisions of KRS 202A.400 of threatened violence against an
identifiable victim or victims should attempt to contact the intended victim or
victims.
      (2)   Officers should inform the victim of the threatened violence,
advise him or her of all available legal remedies, and assist the victim in
accessing these legal remedies.
      (3)   Officers should discuss alternative safety plans with the intended
victim, provide transportation to a safe location if necessary, and give other
indicated assistance.
      (4)   Officers and supervisors should decide what further investigation
or action is appropriate.
      (5)   Officers and supervisors should fully document the report of
threatened violence, all attempts by officers to contact the intended victim or
victims, actions taken on behalf of the intended victim or victims, and all
further recommended investigations or actions.
   (J)   Involuntary hospitalization.
      (1)   If the officer believes the domestic violence perpetrator has a
mental health condition which indicates that the person is in imminent danger
to self or others, the officer needs to follow the provisions set forth in KRS
Chapter 202A.
      (2)   This chapter should not be used as a substitute for arrest.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
§ 32.10 OTHER RELATED MATTERS.
   (A)   Confidentiality. The actual location of any spouse abuse center or
other emergency shelter shall not be communicated by an electronic means. The
information shall be communicated only as a face-to-face, need-to-know basis to
other law enforcement personnel.
   (B)   Training. KRS 403.784 requires that each officer receive initial
training, followed at least every two years by continuing education courses,
developed by the Justice Cabinet concerning the dynamics of domestic violence,
effects of domestic violence on adult and child victims, legal remedies for
protection, lethality and risk issues, model protocols for addressing domestic
violence, available community resources, victims’ services, and reporting
requirements.
   (C)   Good faith immunity from liability. Officers who reasonably perform
his, her, or their duties in good faith have immunity from civil and criminal
liability under the following situations:
      (1)   Enforcing EPOs and DVOs;
      (2)   Enforcing FPOs;
      (3)   Making a report or investigation for adult abuse or neglect; and
      (4)   Making a report or investigation for child dependency, abuse, or
neglect.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Domestic violence and abuse, see KRS 403.700 through 403.785
   Immunity, see KRS 209.050 and 620.050
   Prior assault history; enhancement of penalty, see KRS 508.032
§ 32.11 FEDERAL VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ACT; FEDERAL CRIMES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INTERSTATE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
         (a)   Crossing a state line in order to commit domestic violence and
subsequently committing the act. This crime occurs when:
            1.   A person who travels across a state line or enters or leaves
an Indiana county with the intent to injury, harass, or intimidate that
person’s spouse or intimate partner; and
            2.   Who, in the course of or as a result of the travel,
intentionally commits a crime of violence and thereby causes bodily injury to
the spouse or intimate partner.
(18 U.S.C. § 2261(a)(1))
         (b)   INTERSTATE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE is also causing another to cross a
state line due to domestic violence. This crime occurs when:
            1.   A person who causes a spouse or intimate partner to cross a
state line or to enter or leaves an Indiana county by force, coercion, duress,
or fraud; and/or
            2.   In the course or as a result of that conduct, intentionally
commits a crime of violence and thereby causes bodily injury to the person’s
spouse or intimate partner.
(18 U.S.C. § 2261(a)(2))
   (B)   Interstate violation of a protective order; individual. Crossing a
state line in order to commit domestic violence in violation of a protective
order and subsequently violating the protection order. This crime occurs when:
      (1)   A person who travels across a state line or enters or leaves an
Indiana county with the intent to engage in conduct that violates the portion
of a protection order that involves protection against credible threats of
violence, repeated harassment or bodily injury to the person or persons for
whom the protection order was issued;
      (2)   Would violate the protection order if the conduct occurred in the
jurisdiction in which the order was issued; and/or
      (3)   Subsequently engages in conduct which violates the protection
order.
(18 U.S.C. § 2262(a)(1))
   (C)   Interstate violation of a protective order; causing another person.
Causing another to cross state lines fleeing because of domestic violence
committed in violation of a protection order. This crime occurs when:
      (1)   A person who causes a spouse or intimate partner to cross a state
line or to enter or leave Indiana county by force, coercion, duress, or fraud;
and
      (2)   In the course or as a result of that conduct, intentionally commits
an act that injures the person’s spouse or intimate partner in violation of a
valid protection order issued by a state.
(Prior Code, § 32.06) (Ord. 96-30, passed 1-14-1997)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Court costs and fees
   
33.02   Fee pooling; County Sheriff’s office
Subscriber Fees/Membership Dues; Volunteer Fire Department
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Collection and enforcement
   
33.17   Membership dues/subscriber fees
   
33.18   Establish procedures for managing money
   
33.19   Petition and reimbursement
   
33.20   Notice
   
33.21   Petition to request refund of membership dues
 
   
33.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.01 COURT COSTS AND FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 23A.220, KRS 24A.185, and KRS 64.091, the following
additional court costs and fees are hereby imposed in the County Circuit and
District Courts.
      (1)   A fee of $25 shall be added to the filing fee in all Circuit civil
cases.
      (2)   A cost of $25 shall be added to court costs imposed on defendants
in Circuit criminal cases.
      (3)   A fee of $25 shall be added to the filing fee in all civil cases
appealed from Circuit Court to the state’s Court of Appeals.
      (4)   A fee of $10 shall be added to the court costs for each traffic
offense.
      (5)   A fee of $10 shall be added to the filing fee in all probate cases.
      (6)   A cost of $20 shall be added to court costs imposed in all
misdemeanor cases.
      (7)   A fee of $10 shall be added to all filing fees in small claims
cases.
      (8)   A fee of $10 shall be added to all District civil case filing fees.
      (9)   An additional fee of $10 shall be charged for each subpoena served.
      (10)   An additional fee of $10 shall be charged for each civil summons
served.
   (B)   All additional court costs and fees collected pursuant to this chapter
shall be remitted to the Fiscal Court, as required by law. These funds shall be
maintained in a separate account and expended exclusively for:
      (1)   Construction, renovation, maintenance, or operation of Courthouse
facilities;
      (2)   Payment of principal and interest on bonds issued for Courthouse
projects;
      (3)   Administrative expenses related to the operation of the County
Circuit and District Courts; and
      (4)   Any other lawful purpose consistent with KRS 23A.220, 24A.185, and
64.091.
(Ord. 2025-0513, passed 5-13-2025)
§ 33.02 FEE POOLING; COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE.
   (A)   Effective from and after, all net income and fees from the office of
the County Sheriff shall be paid over to the County Treasurer, such payment to
be on a monthly basis and no later than the tenth day of each month for the net
income and fees collected in the preceding month.
   (B)   NET INCOME and NET FEES shall mean all income and fees collected less
only applicable refunds to customers.
   (C)   The expenses and expenditures by the office of the County Sheriff
shall be paid by the County Treasurer in accordance with policies and
procedures adopted by the Fiscal Court. Provided, however, that the County
Sheriff shall certify to the County Treasurer for payment each pay period, the
names and hours of each employee of his or her office who worked during such
pay period and the County Treasurer shall pay such payroll as presented.
   (D)   The County Sheriff shall draw no checks upon the accounts other than
the check to pay over the net income and net fees of the fee accounts to the
County Treasurer.
   (E)   The County Sheriff shall be compensated at the maximum rate as
permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 5- -2017)
**** SUBSCRIBER FEES/MEMBERSHIP DUES; VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOME OWNER. Any person owning property, upon which a dwelling is situated,
within the service area of the Westside Volunteer Fire Department.
   BUSINESS OWNER. Any person or entity that owns real estate upon which a
business is conducted. This definition shall exclude a person who conducts
business from his or her residence.
   DISTRICT. Refers to the Westside Volunteer Fire Department.
   DWELLING. A home, house, or other dwelling which is intended or used for
human occupancy.
   LAND OWNER. A land owner is an individual or entity who owns a parcel of
real property which has no dwelling, but the area consists mainly of pasture
land, grass land, or wooded area. A barn or similar structure would fall under
this category.
   MEMBERSHIP DUES/SUBSCRIBER FEES. Fees/dues which are levied by a Volunteer
Fire Department in order to provide fire protection services for a certain
tract of land in lieu of assessing a charge for fire protection services
actually performed.
(Ord. 2023-0509, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 33.16 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following duties shall be
established and the dues/fees shall be collected as follows.
   (A)   Property Valuation Administrator. Shall have the duty of placing the
membership dues/subscriber fees upon the property tax bills, on properties
located within the service area of the Westside Volunteer Fire Department. The
membership dues shall be separate from taxes owed, so as to allow the property
owner/business owners and/or landowner to ascertain the amount owed. The PVA
may charge such fees as permitted by state law.
   (B)   County Sheriff. Shall have the duty of collecting the membership dues/
subscriber fees while collecting all taxes listed on the property tax bill.
Upon collection, the County Sheriff has the duty then to distribute the
collected dues/fees to the Westside Volunteer Fire Department. The Sheriff
shall be paid a fee pursuant to Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   County Clerk and County Attorney. In the event the property taxes are
unpaid and become delinquent, the County Clerk and County Attorney shall have
the same duties and be entitled to the same fees as set forth in the Kentucky
Revised Statutes for collection of delinquent property taxes.
(Ord. 2023-0509, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 33.17 MEMBERSHIP DUES/SUBSCRIBER FEES.
   The following membership dues/subscriber fees shall be in place upon
adoption of this subchapter.
   (A)   Residential dues/fees. Membership dues of $45 shall be added to the
property tax bills of every owner of a piece of property, upon which a dwelling
is situated, located within the service area of the Westside Volunteer Fire
Department.
   (B)   Business dues/fees. Membership dues of $45 shall be added to the
property tax bill for every business located within the service area of the
Westside Volunteer Fire Department.
   (C)   Land owner dues/fees. Membership dues of $45 shall be added to the
property tax bill of every landowner located within the service are of the
Westside Volunteer Fire Department.
   (D)   Requirements regarding dues.
      (1)   All dues referenced herein, shall not be seen as mandatory. Each
taxpayer, however, will be required to pay the dues at the time the tax bill is
paid, or face penalties and interest as with other taxes.
      (2)   The County Sheriff cannot accept partial payments for taxes, and
thus this amount must be paid at the time all taxes are paid to the Sheriff.
The property owner/business owner and/or landowner may, however, after paying
the dues owed on the tax bills, opt out of membership by completing the
attached petition, which will be incorporated within the ordinance codified
herein by reference as “Exhibit A.”The attached petition must be completed and
received by the Westside Volunteer Fire Department prior to December 31 of the
current tax year and the owner shall have paid said taxes prior to filing its
petition and provide proof of same with its petition.
      (3)   The Westside Volunteer Fire Department shall refund monies paid to
the property owner/business owner and/or landowner within 60 days of the filing
of the petition.
(Ord. 2023-0509, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 33.18 ESTABLISH PROCEDURES FOR MANAGING MONEY.
   The Westside Volunteer Fire Department shall comply with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Budget. The Westside Volunteer Fire Department shall be responsible
for budgeting the funds collected, yearly, and report the findings to the
Fiscal Court for review. (Reports are due June 15 each year.)
   (B)   Savings. The Volunteer Fire Departments shall budget to keep 5% as a
savings mechanism.
   (C)   Accounting. The Volunteer Fire Department shall provide a detailed
Fire Department audited accounting report to the Fiscal Court on an annual
basis. (Reports are due July 31 each year.) Said accounting shall show all
deposits made, including the source of each deposit. Further, the accounting
shall show each check disbursed, including the check number, amount, to whom
the check was written, and information concerning the reason said check was
disbursed.
(Ord. 2023-0509, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 33.19 PETITION AND REIMBURSEMENT.
   Based upon the service provided by the Volunteer Fire Departments, it is
assumed by the Fiscal Court that every property owner/business owner and/or
landowner wishes to become a member of his, her, or their Volunteer Fire
Department. However, should the property owner/business owner and/or landowner
wish not to participate in the membership, the Volunteer Fire Department shall
refund their money, after completing the attached petition, so long as the
petition is filed with the Westside Volunteer Fire Department by December 31 of
the current tax year and the owner has paid his, her, or their taxes for that
year.
(Ord. 2023-0509, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 33.20 NOTICE.
   All individuals who opt out of the membership are specifically put on
notice. Pursuant to KRS 75.450(2), should a fire or other non-medical incident
occur on their property, the property owner/business owner and/or landowner
could face charges a minimum of $500 or $1,000, depending on the type of
facility.
(Ord. 2023-0509, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 33.21 PETITION TO REQUEST REFUND OF MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   The petition is attached to the codified ordinance as “Exhibit A,” and is
adopted herein by reference as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2023-0509, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Penalties/interest. Pursuant to KRS 75.450(8) any non-paid dues
shall bear the same penalties and interest as state and county taxes. If,
however, the property owner/business owner and/or landowner pays the property
tax in advance, the dues will also be discounted at the same rate.
      (2)   Failure to pay. Should a property owner/business owner and/or
landowner fail to pay his, her, or their property tax and membership dues,
actions will be taken pursuant to KRS 75.450(8). In order to prevent these
actions from being taken against the property, the property owner/business
owner and/or landowner must pay the property tax, as well as the membership
dues. As stated in §
33.17, should the property owner/business owner and/or landowner wish not to
become a member of the Volunteer Fire Department District, then she, he, or
they have the ability to petition for a refund.
(Ord. 2023-0509, passed 5-9-2023)
CHAPTER 34: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Findings
   
34.03   Purpose and authority
   
34.04   Definitions
   
34.05   Nepotism prohibited
   
34.06   Maintenance of records
Standards of Conduct
   
34.20   Conflicts of interest in general
   
34.21   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
34.22   Receipt of gifts
   
34.23   Use of city and/or county property, equipment, and personnel
   
34.24   Representation of interests before city and/or county government
   
34.25   Misuse of confidential information
   
34.26   Post-employment restriction
   
34.27   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
34.40   Who must file
   
34.41   When to file statements; amended statements
   
34.42   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
34.43   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
34.44   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
34.45   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Board of Ethics
   
34.60   Board of Ethics created
   
34.61   Facilities and staff
   
34.62   Power and duties of Board of Ethics
   
34.63   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
34.64   Notice of hearing
   
34.65   Hearing procedure
   
34.66   Appeals
   
34.67   Limitation of actions
   
34.68   Advisory opinions
   
34.69   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
34.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   The ordinance codified herein shall be known and may be cited as the
“Carroll County Code of Ethics.”
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative bodies of the cities involved and the Fiscal Court of the
county find and declare that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city and county are public
trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government depends upon the public’s
confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers and
employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city and/or county officer or employee, that
confidence is imperiled; and
   (C)   The governments have a duty to provide its citizens with standards by
which they may determine whether public duties are being faithfully performed,
and to make its officers and employees aware of the standards which the
citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while conducting their public
duties.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of local government shall be clearly established, uniform in
their application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees
of the city and/or county with advice and information concerning potential
conflicts of interest which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 State General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city and/or
county by KRS 82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003 and/or KRS
Chapter 67.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The County Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of this code
of ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city and/or
county office. An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a
notification and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a
declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State.
   CITY. Refers to the cities of Carrollton, Worthville, Sanders, Prestonville,
and Ghent.
   CITY OR COUNTY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock
corporation, or other entity created, either individually or jointly, by any
city covered by this code or the Fiscal Court.
   COUNTY. Carroll County, Kentucky.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-tine or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city or county. The term
EMPLOYEE shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their
employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild. Also
included for the City of Carrollton, Kentucky, are aunt, uncle, and cousins.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse or an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   Fire Chief;
      (5)   Police Chief;
      (6)   City Utility Manager;
      (7)   County elected offices:
         (a)   Property Valuation Administrator;
         (b)   Sheriff;
         (c)   County Clerk;
         (d)   County Treasurer;
         (e)   County enforcement officer;
         (f)   County Judge/Executive;
         (g)   Magistrate;
         (h)   County Attorney;
         (i)   Coroner;
         (j)   Constables; or
         (k)   County Jailer.
      (8)   Members of the following boards and/or commissions:
         (a)   Hospital Board;
         (b)   Water District;
         (c)   Library Board;
         (d)   Health Department;
         (e)   County Tourism Commission;
         (f)   Carrollton Utilities Commission;
         (g)   Housing authority;
         (h)   Ghent Fire Board; or
         (i)   County Extension District.
      (9)   Any person who occupies a non-elected office created under KRS
83A.080; and/or
      (10)   A member of the governing body of any city or county agency who
has been appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city or county.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.05 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   Hiring members of immediate family is discouraged. However, in
those instances where it is beneficial to the county and/or office to hire a
member of immediate family, under no circumstances shall that person receive
compensation, benefits, or other job consideration not given to other employees
of similar classification or job requirements.
      (2)   Also, for the member of the immediate family to be considered for
employment, he or she must possess those qualifications required of other job
applicants.
      (3)   If the hiring of a member of immediate family takes place, the
county officer shall notify the County Ethics Commission of his or her action.
   (B)   Supervision of employees by a family member is discouraged and should
be avoided. However, in those instances where it is unavoidable that a family
member supervises the work of a family member employee, under no circumstances
shall that person receive compensation, benefits, advantages, preferential
treatment, or other job consideration not given to other employees of similar
classification or job requirements.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, that confers upon said employee
family member a special advantage or benefit not available to or given to other
employees of similar classification or job requirements, except that this
prohibition shall not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on
or participating in the development of a budget which includes compensation for
a family member, provided that the family member is included only as a member
of a class of persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater
extent than any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.06 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   Notwithstanding any section of this chapter to the contrary, the Fiscal
Court shall be required to maintain the records of the Fiscal Court in
accordance with the regulations of the State Archives and Records Commission
pursuant to KRS 171.420.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
**** STANDARDS OF CONDUCT ****
§ 34.20 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and/or county and every city or
county agency shall comply with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city and/or county to secure unwarranted
privileges or advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city and/or county in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of
the following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship. There is a $5,000 per year exemption for each
business. After the $5,000 is reached, the business must file a financial
disclosure statement.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city and/or county,
or city and/or county agency served by the officer or employee, and the
disclosure shall be entered on the official record of the proceedings of the
governing body. The officer or employee shall refrain from taking any action
with respect to the matter that is the subject of the disclosure.
   (F)   No city and/or county government officer or employee, member of his or
her immediate family, or business organization in which he or she has an
interest, shall solicit or accept any gift, favor, loan, political
contribution, service, promise of future employment, or other thing of value
based upon an understanding that the gift, favor, loan, contribution, service,
promise, or other thing of value was given or offered for the purpose of
influencing him or her, directly or indirectly, in the discharge of his or her
official duties. This provision shall not apply to the solicitation or
acceptance of contributions to the campaign of an announced candidate for
elective public office as government by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (G)   No city and/or county government officer or employee shall be
prohibited from giving or receiving an award publicly presented in recognition
of public service, commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of
the lender’s business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses,
entertainment, meals, or refreshments furnished in connection with public
events, appearances, ceremonies, or fact-finding trips related to official city
and/or county government business.
   (H)   No city and/or county government officer shall be prohibited from
accepting a gratuity for solemnizing a marriage.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.21 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No officer or employee of the city and/or county, or any city and/or county
agency shall directly or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in
whole or in part, any contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the
city and/or county, or a city and/or county agency, except as follows.
   (A)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to contracts entered
into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city and/or county
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city and/or county, or
city and/or county agency office, or before an employee was hired by the city
and/or county, or a city and/or county agency. However, if any contract entered
into by a city and/or county, or city and/or county agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition of this
section above shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
   (B)   (1)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply if the contract
is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the officer or
employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded.
      (2)   If the officer or employee has any of the authorities set forth in
the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no interest in
the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (C) below are
satisfied.
   (C)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply in any case where the
following requirements are satisfied.
      (1)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature of
the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at
a meeting of the governing body of the city and/or county, or city and/or
county agency.
      (2)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city and/or county, or city and/or county agency before
the contract is executed.
      (3)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city and/or county,
or city and/or county agency that the contract with the officer or employee is
in the best interest of the public and the city and/or county, or city and/or
county agency because of price, limited supply, or other specific reasons.
      (4)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the governing
body of the city and/or county, or city, and/or county agency before the
contract is executed.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025) Penalty,
see §
34.99
§ 34.22 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city and/or county, or any city and/or
county agency shall directly, or indirectly through any other person or
business, solicit or accept any gift having a fair market value of more than
$100, whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing, or promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which
it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or
could reasonably be expected to influence the officer or employee in the
performance of his or her public duties.
   (B)   No county government officer or employee, member of his or her
immediate family, or business organization in which he or she has an interest,
shall solicit or accept any gift, favor, loan, political contribution, service,
promise of future employment, or other thing of value based upon an
understanding that the gift, favor, loan, contribution, service, promise, or
other thing of value was given or offered for the purpose of influencing him or
her, directly or indirectly, in the discharge of his or her official duties.
This provision shall not apply to the solicitation or acceptance of
contributions to the campaign of an announced candidate for elective public
office as government by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   No county government officer or employee shall be prohibited from
giving or receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public
service, commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the
lender’s business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses,
entertainment, meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public
events, appearance, ceremonies, or fact-finding trips related to official
county government business.
   (D)   No county government officer shall be prohibited from accepting a
gratuity for solemnizing a marriage.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.23 USE OF CITY AND/OR COUNTY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city and/or county shall use or permit the use
of any city and/or county time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal
or real property for the private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city and/or county
policy; and/or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.24 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY AND/OR COUNTY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city and/or county or any city and/or
county agency shall represent any person or business, other than the city and/
or county, in connection with any cause, proceeding, application, or other
matter pending before the city and/or county, or any city and/or county agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.25 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city and/or county, or any city and/or county
agency shall intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course
of his or her official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure
is to further his or her personal financial interest or that of another person
or business. Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 through
61.884, at the time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.26 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city and/or county, or any city and/or county
agency shall appear or practice before the city and/or county, or any city and/
or county agency with respect to any matter on which the officer or employee
personally worked while in the service of the city and/or county, or city and/
or county agency for a period of one year after the termination of the
officer’s or employee’s service with the city and/or county, or city and/or
county agency.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.27 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city and/or county, or a city and/or
county agency shall accept any compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair
market value greater than $100 in consideration of an appearance, speech, or
article unless the appearance, speech, or article is both related to the
officer’s or employee’s activities outside of municipal service and is
unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with the city and/or county.
   (B) Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city and/or county, or any city and/or county agency from receiving and
retaining from the city and/or county, or on behalf of the city and/or county
actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the officer or
employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article, provided that
the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence that the
expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city and/or county, or city
and/or county agency and primarily for the benefit of the city and/or county,
or city and/or county agency and not primarily for the benefit of the officer
or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
**** FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ****
§ 34.40 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and/or county,
and city and/or county agencies shall file an annual statement of financial
interests with the Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city and county officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city and county office;
   (C)   Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (E)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city and county, and/or city
and county agencies who are authorized to make purchases of materials or
services, or award contracts, leases, or agreements involving the expenditure
of more than $500.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.41 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:00 p.m., November 1, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial
interest shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m., on November 1 each year,
provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city and/or county, or a city and/or county
agency shall file his or her initial statement no later than 30 days after the
date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city and/or county office shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date on which the person
becomes a candidate for elected city and/or county office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.42 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interest shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official,
shall deliver a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file
the statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, by October 15 of each year
with the form to be filed by November 1 of each year.
   (B)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.43 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interest shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceased to be an
officer or employee of the city and/or county, or a city and/or county agency,
the Board shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or
copies of those statements filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city and/or county office was not elected or nominated,
the Board shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or
copies of those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.44 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (i.e., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair marker value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city and/or
county during the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any
business transactions with the city and/or county, in which the filer or any
member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time during the preceding
calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership
interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the city and/or county, other than the
filer’s primary residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000
or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer, or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family, or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.45 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025) Penalty,
see §
34.99
**** BOARD OF ETHICS ****
§ 34.60 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the Fiscal Court. One member shall come from each of the three
magisterial districts to constitute this Board. The initial members of the
Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this
codified ordinance.
      (2)   No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or
appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with
the city and/or county, or any city and/or county agency. The members shall
serve for a term of three years; except that with respect to the members
initially appointed, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, one
member shall be appointed for a term of two years, and one member shall be
appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for
a term of three years. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a
resident of the county for at least one year prior to the date of the
appointment and shall reside in the county throughout the term in office.
      (3)   The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of
their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of
local government affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any number of
consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the Fiscal Court for misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of
Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the executive authority and the
legislative body.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body. If a
vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
unanimous decision of all three members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.61 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the Fiscal Court in the
annual budget, the city and/or county shall provide the Board of Ethics, either
directly or by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies,
and staff needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.62 POWER AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Fiscal Court, the city legislative body, the governing body of any city agency,
the County Attorney, or other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and/or county, and city and/or
county agency officers and employees regarding whether a given set of facts and
circumstances would constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and/or county, and city and/or county agencies who
are subject to its term by issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties
authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the State Open Records Act;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city and/or county; and
   (I)   To adept rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.63 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days, to each officer or employee of
the city and/or county, or city and/or county agency who is the subject of the
complaint a copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the commonwealth’s attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and/or county and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on
public confidence in city and/or county government issue, in writing, a
confidential reprimand to the officer or employee concerning the alleged
violation and provide a copy of the confidential reprimand to the executive
authority and governing body of the city and/or county or city and/or county
agency; and
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city and/or county, or any city and/or county agency shall be guilty of
a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025) Penalty,
see §
34.99
§ 34.64 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.65 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The State Rules of Civil Procedure and the State Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be hard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employees who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city and/or county, or city and/or county agency with which the violator
serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this ordinance or state
laws to the County Attorney or commonwealth’s attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.66 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.67 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.68 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city and/or county, or a city and/or county agency who is
covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations consistent with the State Open Records
Act, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential advisory
opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents, except that
before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so that the
identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the persons who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.69 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city and/or county, or any city and/or
county agency shall subject to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or
threaten to use, any official authority or influence in any manner whatsoever
which tends to discourage, restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or
discriminate against any person who, in good faith, reports, discloses,
divulges, or otherwise brings to the attention of the Board of Ethics or any
other agency or official of the city, county, and/or of the commonwealth any
facts or information relative to an actual or suspected violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city and/or county, or any
city and/or county agency discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 through 61.884; and/or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city and/or county, or any city and/or
county agency who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be
subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000,
which may be recovered by the city and/or county in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed
period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city and/or county, or any city and/or
county agency who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated any
provision of this chapter shall forfeit to the city and/or county, or the city
and/or county agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which the
officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized as a result of
the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the city and/or
county in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay
the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city and/or county, or any city and/or county agency is guilty of a violation
of this chapter shall be sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or
other disciplinary action by the executive authority of the city and/or county,
or city and/or county agency, or by any other officer or agency having the
power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or discipline any officer
or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with
all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city and/or county and all
applicable laws of the commonwealth.
   (B)   Any violation of §
34.21 shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court
may void any contract entered into in violation of this section. Additionally,
a violation of §
34.21 shall be grounds for removal from office or employment with the city and/
or county in accordance with any applicable provisions of state law and
ordinances, rules, or regulations of the city and/or county.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under §
34.45 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the city
and/or county in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or
refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time. Civil fine to be
used to offset costs of administration.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2020-0324, passed 3-24-2020; Ord. 2025-0722A, passed 7-22-2025)
CHAPTER 35: BOARDS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Code Enforcement Board
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Creation and membership
   
35.03   Jurisdiction
   
35.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath and
compensation
   
35.05   Organization of board; meetings: quorum and alternate members
   
35.06   Conflicts of interest
   
35.07   Powers of the Board
   
35.08   Enforcement proceedings
   
35.09   Hearing; notice; final order
   
35.10   Legal counsel
   
35.11   Appeals; final judgment
   
35.12   Liens; fines; charges and fees
   
35.13   State statutes adopted by reference
   
35.14   Criteria and procedures
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A Sheriff or their deputies, a constable or their
deputies, a police officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, Solid Waste
Coordinator, CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, Building Inspector, or other public law
enforcement officer with the authority to issue a citation. Designee(s) of the
aforementioned officials shall likewise be defined as CODE ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the County Fiscal Court which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of the code of ordinances adopted by the County
Fiscal Court which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 within the
county a Code Enforcement Board (the “Board”) which shall be composed of three
members, all of whom shall be residents of the county for a period of at least
one year prior to the date of the members appointment and shall reside there
throughout the term in office.
   (B)   There shall be one member of the Board from each magisterial district.
If redistricting occurs and a member is no longer in the magisterial district
he or she was appointed from, he or she shall serve to the end of his or her
appointed term.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.03 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce and shall enforce those
county ordinances any code provisions which specifically provide for civil
enforcement.
   (B)   The Board shall not have the authority to enforce any ordinance the
violation of which constitutes a criminal offense under the provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically, any provision of the
Kentucky Penal Code and any moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH AND
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Board shall be appointed by the County Judge Executive,
subject to the approval of Fiscal Court.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Board shall be as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed to a term of one year;
      (2)   One member appointed to a term of two years;
      (3)   One member appointed to a term of three years; and
      (4)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (C)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the County Judge Executive
subject to approval of Fiscal Court within 60 days of the vacancy. If the
vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining members shall fill
the vacancy.
   (D)   A Board member may be removed from office by the County Judge
Executive for misconduct, inefficiency, wilful neglect of duty or violation of
the County’s Code of Ethics. The County Judge Executive shall submit a written
statement to the member and the Fiscal Court setting forth the reasons for
removal.
   (E)   All members of the Board must, before entering upon the duties of
their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
   (F)   No member of the Board may hold any elected or non-elected office,
paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the county or any city
contained therein.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.05 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS: QUORUM AND ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect a Chairman from among its members. The
Chairman shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the Board.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Board shall be held as directed by the
Chairman and shall be held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815
(5) and the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   Meetings other than those regularly scheduled shall be special
meetings and shall be held in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky
Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board and the vote of
each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.06 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Board who has any direct or indirect financial or personal
interest in any interest to be decided shall disclose the nature of the
interest and shall be disqualified from voting on the matter, and shall not be
counted for purposes of establishing a quorum. If the Board requests, the
County Judge Executive, with the approval of the Fiscal Court, may appoint an
interim Board member to hear the matter in which the regular Board member has a
conflict of interest. If the County Judge Executive appoints an interim Board
member, said appointee shall reside in the same magisterial district as the
Board member with a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.07 POWERS OF THE BOARD.
   The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings;
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses, and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Board may be served by any Code Enforcement
Officer;
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony;
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a county ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce;
   (F)   To issue remedial orders and impose civil fines, as authorized,
against any person who is found to have violated an ordinance over which the
Board has jurisdiction; and
   (G)   To make any recommendations to the Fiscal Court deemed necessary by
the Board.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.08 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Board.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Board shall only be initiated by
the issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   When a Code Enforcement Officer, based upon personal observation or
investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed a
violation of an ordinance, the Officer is authorized to issue a citation to the
offender. A Code Enforcement Officer may, in lieu of issuing a citation, give a
notice of violation, which shall serve to notify the violator to remedy the
violation within the time specified. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy
the violation within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation. A Code Enforcement Officer shall not give a
notice of violation, but shall issue an immediate citation if the offender has
had a previous notice or citation within the prior two years.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent a Code Enforcement Officer
from taking immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances or codes
when there is reason to believe that the violation constitutes a public
nuisance or a threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, or if in the
absence of immediate action, the effects of tire violation will be irreparable
or irreversible. A citation may also be issued for the violation.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of the issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The address and PVA Map Number of the property that is the subject
of the citation;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed or discovered;
      (5)   Brief facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the ordinance number violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (9)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (10)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (11)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Board
to contest the citation and that the determination that the violation was
committed shall be final.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Board by delivering a copy of the citation to the
Fiscal Court Clerk.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven calendar days of the date of issuance by either paying
the civil fine and remedying the violation or requesting, in writing, a hearing
before the Board to contest a citation. If the seventh day falls on a county
holiday or weekend, then the response shall be filed on the next business day
of the county. The request for a hearing shall be delivered to the Fiscal Court
Clerk.
      (2)   The request shall include the name and address of the person
requesting the hearing. If the person fails to respond to the citation within
seven calendar days by payment and remedial action if necessary, the person
shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and any determination
that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In the event a
violator is issued a citation and neither pays the civil fine or remedies the
violation, the Board may enter a judgment by default.
   (G)   If the alleged violator does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Board may enter a final order determining that the violation
was committed and may impose the appropriate civil fine set forth for such
violation. A copy of any final order shall be served on the person found in
violation of a county code or ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.09 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Board shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven calendar days before the date of the hearing, the
Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
The notice may be given by certified mail, return receipt requested; by
personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of
residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Board who fails to
appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived
the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be final.
      (2)   The Board may enter a final order determining the violation was
committed and impose the civil fines authorized. A copy of the final order
shall be served upon the person guilty of the violation.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Testimony shall
be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator, and any
witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or alleged
violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process
shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Board shall, based on the evidence, determine whether a violation
was committed. If it determines that no violation was committed, an order
dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines that a violation was
committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation and either imposing
a fine up to the maximum authorized by this or other ordinance or requiring the
offender to remedy a continuing violation, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order of the Board shall be reduced to writing which
shall include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the
person named in the citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered in accordance with the procedures
set forth in division (B) above.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.10 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   Each case before the Board shall be presented by a County Code Enforcement
Officer or by an attorney selected by the County Judge Executive. The County
Attorney will be counsel to the Board and may not present cases before the
Board.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.11 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Board may be made to the Carroll
Circuit Court within 30 days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall
be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the Board’s order in
the same manner as any civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil
Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Board is filed within the time
period set forth in division (A) above, the Board’s order shall be final.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.12 LIENS; FINES; CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The county shall, in accordance with KRS 65.8835, possess a lien on
property owned by any person found by a final, nonappealable order of the Board
or by a final court of law if the Board’s decision has been appealed, to have
committed a violation or all fines assessed for the violation, for all charges
and fees incurred by the county with the enforcement thereof.
   (B)   The lien may be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest at the legal rate until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, court, school board and county taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred
by the county in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The county
may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.13 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All of the terms, conditions, and procedures of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839
relating to the organization and powers of the Board, enforcement, procedure,
appeals, and other matters are hereby adopted by the county and incorporated
herein by reference as if fully rewritten.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
§ 35.14 CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Criteria. In the event the Board should consider the need to recommend
to Fiscal Court that judicial proceedings are necessary in order to enforce any
particular lien for payment of unpaid civil fines, the Board is hereby directed
to carefully consider the following factors before recommending judicial
proceedings:
      (1)   Whether the violator has been given notice of the violation as
required by §
35.12;
      (2)   Whether a civil suit seeking a money damages only against the
violator or a civil proceeding seeking a judicially ordered sale of the subject
property, will be the appropriate course of action;
      (3)   Whether the conduct of the violator has demonstrated indifference
to or disregard for the necessity of compliance with the applicable county
ordinance by statement, conduct, or inaction with regard to the violation;
      (4)   Whether the violation(s) which is/are the subject of the liens
constitute a present danger to the public health, safety or welfare of the
residents in the vicinity, or materially interfere with the peaceful enjoyment
of adjacent property;
      (5)   The period of time for which the violation has existed must be
considered in relation to the severity of the threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare of the residents in the vicinity; and
      (6)   Whether three convictions of the same violation have been found to
exist since the enactment of these criteria.
   (B)   Procedures. Upon notification to the Board by the Fiscal Court Clerk
that liens have been filed in accordance with §
35.12, the Board, no sooner than 30 days after the Clerk’s notification, may
consider whether the above factors exist. If so, it may make a formal written
recommendation to the Fiscal Court that judicial proceedings be initiated. All
liens filed prior to the enactment of this section shall be so considered by
the Board within 60 days of the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 2024-1022, passed 10-22-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   SEWAGE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Cutting into county roads by utilities or other persons
   
50.02   911 emergency telephone service
   
50.03   Rates to be charged by certified electrical inspectors
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 CUTTING INTO COUNTY ROADS BY UTILITIES OR OTHER PERSONS.
   (A)   Any person, company, corporation, or other entity desiring to cross,
cut into, or enter upon a county road for the purpose of installing underground
pipes, lines, utilities, or other such uses must first obtain a permit from the
County Judge/Executive’s office before taking such action.
   (B) A fee of up to $100 may be charged for the permit.
   (C)   Anyone obtaining such permit shall thereby agree to repair any damage
done to the county road so as to return the road to at least its original
condition.
   (D)   The repairs must be made to the satisfaction and approval of the
County Road Supervisor and in accordance with the specifications adopted by
reference herein.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 1-12-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SERVICE.
   (A)   The county, by and through its County Judge/Executive is hereby
authorized and empowered to enter into an agreement with the telephone company
to establish and operate an Enhanced 911 Emergency Telephone (E911).
   (B)   The county, by and through its County Judge/Executive, is hereby
authorized and empowered to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement to
establish a regional E911 service for the operation of a Public Safety
Answering Point (PSAP) at the State Police Post at La Grange and at the
Carrollton City Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. passed 7-14-1992)
§ 50.03 RATES TO BE CHARGED BY CERTIFIED ELECTRICAL INSPECTORS.
   Maximum rates that may be charged by certified electrical inspectors
performing services within the county shall be as set forth on the fee schedule
below.
Electrical Inspection Fees for the County Fiscal Court
Electrical Inspection Fees for the County Fiscal Court
Agricultural, mobile home, portable
building, campsite, or recreational      $150
utility service
All electrical permits                   $25
Apartments, per building or service      $125
Each sub-panel/unit                      $50
Commercial/Industrial inspections        $125 per trip and 1% of electrical
                                         contract if over $25,000
Electric vehicle charger                 $250 or 1%
Emergency, holiday, shut-down inspection $250
Field consultation                       $100/$125
Final inspection                         $100/$125
Branch circuits, greater than 50 amps    $5
Branch circuits, less than 50 amps       $2.50
Sub-panels                               $25
Low-voltage                              $100/$125
Maximum travel charge per inspection     $25
Residential inspections                  $100 per trip and 1% of electrical
                                         contract if over $25,000
Rough-in wire inspection                 $100/$125
Branch circuits, greater than 50 amps    $5
Branch circuits, less than 50 amps       $2.50
Sub-panels                               $25
Service replacement/upgrade              $100/$125
Solar                                    $200 or 1%
Standby generator                        $150 or 1%
Temporary construction service           $100/$125
Temporary on permanent utility release   $100/$125
Turn-down/re-inspection                  $100/$125
Utility reconnect                        $100/$125
 
(Ord. 2023-0328, passed 3-28-2023)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
50.01 shall result in a fine not to exceed $500 and confinement in the county
jail for a period of time not to exceed one year. In addition, a violator shall
be required to pay the county for the cost of repairing any damage caused by
the violation.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. passed 1-12-1993)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Applicability
   
51.004   Storage
   
51.005   Collection
   
51.006   Transportation
   
51.007   Disposal
   
51.008   Public health hazard
   
51.009   Solid Waste Management Board
Siting of Solid Waste Management Facilities
   
51.020   Prohibition
   
51.021   Site approval process
   
51.022   Fiscal Court determination as to facility site approval
   
51.023   Facility impact report
   
51.024   Fees
Debris Landfill
   
51.035   Permit requirements
   
51.036   Exemptions
   
51.037   Permit application
   
51.038   Permit issuance
   
51.039   Return of guarantee
   
51.040   Inspections
   
51.041   Permit suspension
   
51.042   Injunctive relief
   
51.043   Appeal
   
51.044   Permit display
   
51.045   Guarantee
Construction/Demolition Debris Landfill
   
51.060   Permit requirements
   
51.061   Permit application
   
51.062   Application form
   
51.063   Site plan
   
51.064   Narrative report
   
51.065   Procedure of application and permit issuance
   
51.066   Permit extensions
   
51.067   Minimum siting standards
   
51.068   Minimum construction standards
   
51.069   Liners
   
51.070   Leachate collection system
   
51.071   Stormwater diversion system
   
51.072   Final cap specifications
   
51.073   Leachate collection system operation
   
51.074   General operating requirements
   
51.075   Closure requirements
   
51.076   Return of guarantee
   
51.077   Waiver of strict compliance
   
51.078   Permit modifications
   
51.079   Transfer of permits
   
51.080   Major and minor permit modifications
   
51.081   Permit modifications application
   
51.082   Inspections
   
51.083   Permit suspension
   
51.084   Stop work order
   
51.085   Injunctive relief
   
51.086   Appeal
   
51.087   Permit display
   
51.088   Guarantee
 
   
51.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted:
   (A)   To enhance and protect the public health;
   (B)   To abate a potential public health hazard or nuisance;
   (C)   To preserve the natural resources of the county;
   (D)   To encourage the social and economic development of the county;
   (E)   To assure adequate capacity for the disposal of solid waste and to
site solid waste management facilities in areas of the county which will
minimize the adverse effects of the facilities; and
   (F)   To encourage recycling and waste reduction so as to preserve scarce
resources and to reduce the volume of the solid waste stream being created.
(Prior Code, § 51.001) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTION. Removal of solid waste from the designated pickup locations to
the transportation vehicle.
   EXISTENCE. A solid waste management facility which is in operation, or for
which continuous construction has commenced at time of enactment of the
chapter. A solid waste management facility has commenced continuous
construction if:
      (1)   The owner or operator has obtained necessary federal, state, or
local approvals to be in physical construction; and
      (2)   Either:
         (a)   A continuous on-site physical construction program has begun; or
         (b)   The owner or operator had entered into contractual obligations
which could not be canceled or modified without a substantial loss.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any discarded material or material intended to be discarded
or substance or combination of such substances intended to be discarded, in any
form which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to an
increase in serious or irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness or
pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, or disposed of or
otherwise managed. The term HAZARDOUS WASTE shall include only those substances
or materials listed in 401 KAR 031:040.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The owner of any solid waste management facility and any
person who has ultimate decision making authority over the facility or other
person involved in the operation of a solid waste management facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, trust, firm, corporation joint stock company,
partnership, association, federal agency, state agency, city, commission, or
political subdivision of the commonwealth.
   RECYCLING FACILITY or RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. Any facility at which
nonhazardous materials are salvaged, separated, or transformed for the purpose
of creating any material or energy for beneficial reuse or sale. RECYCLING
FACILITIES and RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITIES are to be limited to those
facilities whose owner or operator derives 90% or more of its revenue at that
facility from the reuse or sale of recycled or recovered products and
materials.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, sludge, and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting
from industrial, commercial, mining (excluding mining waste, by product,
refuse, and overburden), and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solid or dissolved materials in irrigation
return flows or industrial wastewater systems or source, special nuclear, or
byproduct material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or
iron-hazardous materials that are recycled, reused, or utilized for resource
facilities or that are intended for recycle, reuse, or resource recovery. For
purpose of this chapter, substances which are “special wastes” are not within
the definition of SOLID WASTE.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The administration of solid waste activities, which
includes source separation, transfer, processing, treatment, and disposal of
solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any facility for source separation,
transfer, processing, treatment, or disposal of solid waste.
   SPECIAL WASTES. Those wastes of high volume and low hazard which include,
but are not limited to, mining waste, utility wastes (fly ash, bottom ash,
scrubber sludge, and other wastes from coal-fired electric generating plants),
sludge from water treatment facilities and wastewater treatment facilities,
cement kiln dust, gas and oil drilling muds, and oil production brines.
   STORAGE. Keeping, maintaining, or storing solid waste from the time it is
generated until the time it is collected and disposed of.
   TRANSFER. Holding or transferring any solid or hazardous waste at any
transportation-related facility including any fixed or mobile loading docks,
parking areas, or similar areas where shipments of solid waste are held or
transferred during the normal course of transportation.
   TRANSPORTATION. Any off-site movement of waste by any mode, and any loading,
unloading, or storage incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 51.002) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to the storage, collection, transportation,
transfer, and disposal of solid waste in the county and to any person who is an
owner or operator of a solid waste management facility.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to any solid waste management site or
facility in existence and holding all authorizations or permits required under
applicable state or federal laws as of the date of enactment of this chapter.
Any owner or operator of a solid waste management facility shall be required to
obtain Fiscal Court site approval as required by this chapter in the event that
the owner or operator proposes to alter the activity conducted to:
      (1)   Include a new solid waste management facility;
      (2)   Increase the total volume of solid waste disposal by 25% or
greater;
      (3)   Modify or expand existing solid waste management facility resulting
in an increase in the facility’s disposal capacity; or
      (4)   Include a new type of waste being received.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to recycling facilities or resource
recovery facilities or to any solid waste management facility owned by such
recycling or resource recovery facility which is utilized exclusively for the
management of residual material derived from the operation of the recycling
facility or resources recovery facility provided that such residual materials
are non-hazardous, and are managed in full compliance with the environmental
performance standard of 401 KAR 047:030. The Fiscal Court, or an agent thereof,
is hereby authorized to conduct reasonable inspections of recycling facilities,
resource recovery facilities, or any solid waste management facility associated
therewith and to review applicable records in order to determine whether the
terms of the exemption granted by this section have been satisfied.
   (D)   SPECIAL WASTES within the definition of §
51.002 are not SOLID WASTES. Accordingly, this chapter is not applicable to the
storage, processing, transfer, disposal, or other handling of special wastes.
   (E)   Construction/demolition debris landfills of one acre or less issued a
permit by rule under 401 KAR 047:080 and operating in conformance with all
applicable regulations are exempt from this chapter.
   (F)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the source
separation of solid waste where the separation is conducted at a recycling
facility, a resource recovery facility or at the site where the solid waste was
generated.
   (G)   A solid waste transfer station, convenience center, and/or recycling
center located within 1,000 yards of a public school, a public part, or a
residential subdivision must comply with the following provisions:
      (1)   Submit to the office of the County Judge/Executive copies of the
applicable forms required by the State Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet;
      (2)   Obtain a permit form the county authorizing the activity;
      (3)   Limit the monthly quantity of solid waste received at the site to
no more than 350 tons;
      (4)   Provide the office of the County Judge/Executive with monthly
reports setting forth the quantity of solid waste received during the preceding
month as well as copies of all periodic reports required to be filed with the
State Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet; and
      (5)   The Fiscal Court, or its agent, is authorized to conduct reasonable
inspections of the facilities and to review applicable records in order to
determine compliance with these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 51.003) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999;
Ord. passed 8-28-2007) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 STORAGE.
   (A)   The occupant or owner of every dwelling unit and of every
institutional, commercial, or business, industrial, or agricultural
establishment producing solid waste shall provide sufficient and adequate
containers for each dwelling unit or establishment to store all solid waste,
except for bulky rubbish and demolition and construction debris.
   (B)   All solid waste shall be collected in proper waste containers and such
solid waste containers and the area surrounding them shall be maintained in a
clean, neat, and sanitary condition at all times. Solid waste shall be stored
in a manner that will not provide harborage of rodents, insects, and vermin and
will not create a fire hazard. Solid waste containers shall be leak-proof,
waterproof, and fitted with a secure lid and shall be properly covered at all
times except when depositing waste therein or removing the contents thereof.
(With respect to commercial containers, i.e., “greenboxes” or roll-off
containers, this division shall not take effect until six months from the
effective date of this chapter.)
   (C)   Plastic garbage bags may be used as containers for solid waste only if
they are made of a strong material able to withstand compaction, are absent of
flaws that would allow leachate or solid waste to escape, and are securely
fastened. Plastic garbage bags may be left at the point where collection
services are performed but shall not be left out for more than 12 hours prior
to time of collection.
   (D)   No solid waste shall be stored at a site other than the place of its
generation for more than 12 hours after collection, unless at an approved and
permitted solid waste management facility.
   (E)   Demolition and construction debris shall not be stored longer than
commercially reasonable, and under no circumstances shall such debris be stored
for longer than six months, unless at a permitted construction/demolition
debris landfill.
   (F)   Storage of household and agricultural waste on the property owned or
leased by the generator of the waste is permissible, provided that open dumping
laws are not violated.
(Prior Code, § 51.004) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.005 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Any person who collects, hauls, or transports any solid waste not
generated at a site owned or operated by the person collecting, hauling, or
transporting such solid waste shall first obtain a collection/transportation
permit from the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   A fee of $25 per vehicle, plus $4 for each cubic yard of capacity of
such vehicle over 18 cubic yards, shall be assessed and is payable to the
Fiscal Court at such time as application is made for the collection/
transportation permit.
   (C)   Collection/transportation permits are valid from the date of issuance
until December 31 of the year in which the permit is granted.
   (D)   All applications for collection/transportation permits shall be made
on the official form which is attached to the ordinance codified herein as
“Appendix A” and which may be obtained at the office of the County Judge/
Executive. Failure to complete any portion of the application form or the
giving of false information in the application shall be grounds for denial of
the requested permit.
   (E)   At time of permit expiration, the permit holder shall submit to Fiscal
Court a performance report relative to the past year’s operations. If
operational deficiencies are found via the performance report or by other
means, the permit holder shall be notified to appear before the Fiscal Court
and show cause why the collection/transportation permit shall not be suspended
or revoked.
   (F)   Collection or transportation shall not continue after permit
expiration until the permit has been reissued or an extension has been granted.
   (G)   Any person engaged in the collection and transportation of solid waste
must carry liability insurance in the amount of not less than $100,000 for each
person injured or killed, and in the amount of not less than $500,000 in the
event of injury or death of two or more persons in any single accident. The
policy must provide liability coverage for damage to property in the amount of
$100,000 and may be written to allow the first $250 of liability for damage to
property to be deductible. Proof of insurance meeting the above-described
requirements shall be furnished to the Fiscal Court at the time of application
for permit.
   (H)   No permit shall be required for a vehicle transporting solid waste
through the county which is neither collected, transferred, nor disposed of in
the county. However, all vehicles which either collect or transfer or dispose
of waste in the county must have a collection/transportation permit, unless the
person collecting, transferring, or disposing of solid waste is also the
generator of that waste.
   (I)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to persons occasionally
transporting construction/demolition debris or debris associated with land
clearing; provided that, the persons are not in the business of transporting
the solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 51.005) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 TRANSPORTATION.
   All transportation vehicles shall be maintained in a safe, clean, and
sanitary condition, and shall be so constructed, maintained, and operated as to
prevent spillage of solid waste therefrom. All vehicles to be used for
transportation of solid waste shall be constructed with shall be an integral
part of the vehicle or shall be separate cover of suitable material with
fasteners designed to secure all sides of the cover to the vehicle and shall be
secured whenever the vehicle is transporting solid waste, or as an alternative,
the entire bodies thereof shall be enclosed, with only loading hoppers exposed.
No solid waste shall be transported in the loading hoppers.
(Prior Code, § 51.006) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 DISPOSAL.
   No solid waste shall be disposed of in the county other than at an approved
and permitted solid waste management facility meeting all requirements of this
chapter, and applicable state statutes and regulations, except agricultural and
domestic burning as provided by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 51.007) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD.
   Nothing in this chapter or any site approval permit issued hereunder shall
confer the right upon the owner/operator of any solid waste management facility
to maintain a public health hazard or nuisance. (Prior Code, § 51.008) (Ord.
passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.009 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT BOARD.
   In the event that the Fiscal Court establishes a Solid Waste Management
Board as provided by KRS Chapter 109, this chapter shall be administered and
enforced through the Solid Waste Management Board.
(Prior Code, § 51.009) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
**** SITING OF SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES ****
§ 51.020 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall construct or operate a solid waste management facility
prior to the issuance of a site approval permit by the Fiscal Court as provided
in this chapter.
   (B)   The Fiscal Court has determined that certain areas within the county
are not suitable for the siting of solid waste management facilities.
Accordingly, site approval permits shall not be issued for a facility in an
area where solid waste management facilities are tentatively prohibited unless
the owner or operator can show compelling reasons why the site approval permit
should be issued. The Fiscal Court has based this tentative prohibition on the
criteria set forth in this subchapter, as those criteria apply to areas in
general and not to specific facilities.
   (C)   The site approval permit required by division (A) above is required in
addition to any other approvals or permits required by federal or state
regulatory authority.
   (D)   No person shall dispose of hazardous wastes in the county other than
the small quantities allowed pursuant to 401 KAR 047.
(Prior Code, § 51.025) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 SITE APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a proposed solid waste management facility
shall file an application for a site approval permit with the Fiscal Court at
the office of the County Judge/Executive.
   (B)   The application for a site approval permit shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the owner or operator and the location of
the proposed site of the facility;
      (2)   A copy of the deed or other document establishing the right, title,
and interest of the owner or operator in the proposed site of the facility;
      (3)   A current USGS map showing the location of the proposed site, at a
scale of one-inch equals 2,000 feet, with the map showing the entire boundaries
of the site or proposed site;
      (4)   A description of the type of solid waste and the source of
generation of the solid waste involved in the solid waste activity to be
conducted on the site together with a description of the technology and the
procedures the owner/operator proposes to utilize in its solid waste management
activities at the site;
      (5)   A complete history of the owner or operator’s prior experience in
the ownership and/or operation of any and all solid waste facilities or
activities, wherever located. The description shall include a record of
compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulation applicable to the
operation of solid or hazardous waste management facilities, and with respect
to the owner or operator, such description shall disclose:
         (a)   Any administrative, criminal, or civil action pending against
the owner or operator of the proposed site alleging a violation of any federal,
state, or local law or regulation concerning solid waste, the protection of
public health and safety or environmental protection; and
         (b)   For the five-year period immediately preceding the date of
filing of the petition for site approval, whether the owner or operator has
been convicted of a crime, entered a plea of guilty or such other plea of no
contest to a felony or misdemeanor charge, been held liable in administrative
or criminal proceeding, involving the violation of any federal, state, or local
law or regulation applicable to the management of solid waste and the
protection of the public health and safety of the environment.
      (6)   The petition for site approval shall identify the following persons
and entities, and provide the compliance information required by division (B)
(5) above for each person or entity so identified:
         (a)   The owner or operator applying for site approval;
         (b)   If the owner or operator is a proprietorship, each proprietor
and the interest held;
         (c)   If the owner or operator is a partnership, each of the partners
and their respective interest, and any corporation, joint venture, partnership
in which any of the partners comprising the applicant holds 25% or greater
interest; and
         (d)   If the owner or operator is a corporation, a detailed listing of
the officers, directors, and stockholders; any corporation of which the
applicant is a subsidiary or which holds a 10% or greater interest; and any
proprietorship, partnership, or joint venture in which the applicant holds a
10% or greater interest. For the purposed of this section, INTEREST includes
ownership or other interest reflected in stocks, assets, or other beneficial
interest.
      (7)   Financial data, including:
         (a)   An estimate of the total cost of the facility and an estimate of
the cost of each of the major components of the facility;
         (b)   Audited statements of income and balance sheets of the owner or
operator for each of the three years immediately preceding the year in which
the application for site approval permit is filed;
         (c)   A plan of financing for the proposed facility, including the
amount to be raised through debt and the potential sources thereof (The owner
or operator is a subsidiary corporation which wishes to have the financial
resources of its parent considered, then the owner or operator shall submit, in
addition to the foregoing, a description of the relation between the subsidiary
and the parent and written confirmation from such parent corporation that its
financial resources are available to finance the proposed facility as
represented by the subsidiary.);
         (d)   A statement as to the extent of liability insurance in effect or
proposed with respect to the facility, together with true copies of any
policies of insurance in effect and a listing of any claims made or threatened
under any policies of liability insurance; and
         (e)   A statement as to whether the owner or operator has been
designated as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as
amended; and, if so, the location of the site or sites involved, an estimate of
the owner or operator’s share, if any, of the cost to clean up the site and a
description of site and superfund listing.
      (8)   A statement as to the present suitability of the site for the
conduct of the proposed activity at the facility and of any additional measures
that would be required to make the site suitable for such activity;
      (9)   A set of drawings prepared by a licensed engineer depicting the
proposed facility, which drawings impart sufficient detail and information for
the analysis required under this chapter;
      (10)   A facility impact report (FIR) in accordance with this chapter;
      (11)   A copy of the public notice of the right to submit comments to the
Fiscal Court pursuant to division (D) below;
      (12)   Evidence of notification to adjoining property owners by certified
mail of the intention to submit to the Fiscal Court an application for a site
approval permit for a solid waste management facility;
      (13)   A list of the names and addresses of all persons to whom the
application for site approval was submitted pursuant to the provisions of
division (C) below;
      (14)   The following certification: “I certify under the penalty of law
that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction and
supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified
personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based upon my
inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for gathering and
evaluating the information, the information submitted is to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.” Which shall be
signed:
         (a)   If the owner or operator is a corporation, by an authorized
executive officer;
         (b)   If the owner or operator is a partnership, by an authorized
general partner;
         (c)   If the owner or operator is a sole proprietor, by the
proprietor; or
         (d)   If the owner or operator is a governmental agency, by the head
of that agency.
      (15)   Any information submitted to the Fiscal Court pursuant to this
chapter may be claimed confidential by the submitter. (Any such claim must be
asserted at the time of submission by stamping the words “Confidential Business
Information” on each page containing such information. If no claim is made at
the time of submission, the Fiscal Court may make the information available to
the public without further notice. If a claim is asserted, the information will
be treated in accordance with the procedures in KRS 224.10-210, which are
adopted herein by reference. Claims that the name and address of any owner or
operator is confidential will be denied.);
      (16)   A true copy of any permit application required by the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet, if such application is
available; and
      (17)   A closure plan for the landfill as required by 401 KAR 047 with
estimates of closure costs.
   (C)   (1)   The application for site approval shall be submitted to the
County Judge/Executive. Within 45 days of the receipt of the application for
site approval, the owner/operator shall be notified in writing if the
application is administratively complete. For the purposes of this chapter,
ADMINISTRATIVELY COMPLETE APPLICATION means an application for site approval
which the County Judge/Executive, or a designated agent thereof, determined
contains information addressing each application requirement of this chapter
and all information necessary to initiate technical processing and public
review. Additional information may be required after determination that the
application is administratively complete.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the notification from the County Judge/Executive of
administrative completeness, the owner/operator shall forthwith deliver the
application for site approval to the following persons:
         (a)   Members of the Fiscal Court and the County Attorney at those
addresses set out in the list to be provided to the owner/operator of the
proposed facility by the County Judge/Executive;
         (b)   The Fire Department Chief over the jurisdiction of the site or
facility, such Fire Department shall be within the boundaries of the county;
         (c)   The County Disaster and Emergency Services Coordinator (DES);
and
         (d)   The Director of the County Health Department.
   (D)   Each application for site approval shall be subject to a public
comment period and a public hearing. After the owner or operator has been
notified that the application for a site published weekly for six consecutive
weeks in the newspaper of the greatest circulation serving the county. The
notice shall be in a form that advises the public that an application for a
site approval permit has been filed. The beginning date of the public comment
period shall commence as of the date of the first public notice and shall end
on the date on which the public hearing is concluded. The public hearing shall
be held within 45 days after the date of the publication of the last of the six
weekly public notices required herein. The public hearing shall be held in the
county at a location readily accessible to the public.
(Prior Code, § 51.026) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.022 FISCAL COURT DETERMINATION AS TO FACILITY SITE APPROVAL.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the conclusions of the public hearing, the
appropriate Fire Department Chief, the county’s DES Coordinator, and the
Director of the County Health Department shall review the application for a
site approval permit, together with any comments or information received during
the public comment period, and any other information deemed appropriate, and
each such agency shall make a recommendation to the Fiscal Court regarding the
issuance or denial of the site approval permit for the proposed facility.
Within 30 days following receipt of the agency recommendations, the Fiscal
Court shall make final determination whether to issue or deny the site approval
permit.
   (B)   The Fiscal Court shall issue the application for site approval if it
finds, on the basis of the information available to it that:
      (1)   The nature of the solid waste management activity conducted at the
facility site will not present an unreasonable risk to public health or safety;
      (2)   The nature and extent of the solid waste activity conducted at the
proposed site would not significantly impede or adversely impact the provision
of fire, health, and other emergency services to the public both in the
vicinity of the proposed site and throughout the county;
      (3)   The nature of the solid waste activity conducted at the facility
site would not result in a significant reduction in the public’s use and
enjoyment of parks, recreational waters, historic structures, cultural and
natural resources located in the vicinity of the proposed site;
      (4)   The facility and the solid waste activity occurring on the site
will not have a significant adverse impact on the establishment of business,
residential developments, churches, schools, or other types of activities
related to the social, economic, and cultural development of the county;
      (5)   The owner/operator’s prior experience and history in solid waste
activities indicates a reasonably satisfactory record of compliance with
applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and based upon such
prior record, it can be reasonably expected that the owner/operator will, in
constructing, expanding, maintaining, or operating the facility at the proposed
site maintain a corresponding satisfactory record of compliance with applicable
laws and regulations;
      (6)   The owner or operator has sufficient financial resources to
complete construction of the new or expanded facility, maintain and operate the
facility in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, respond
immediately in the event of emergency by reason of accident or upset at the
site, and complete closure of the facility in accordance with federal and state
laws and regulations;
      (7)   The owner or operator has complied with all solid waste management
laws and regulations concerning solid waste facility permits, filings, and/or
notifications required by the state or federal regulatory authority;
      (8)   The application is consistent with the goals and objectives of the
County Solid Waste Plan as adopted; and
      (9)   The required financial responsibility for closure has been
established, by posting a bond or establishing an escrow account in a minimum
amount of $10,000 or greater approved cost estimate for closure and
corresponding bond shall be reviewed and adjusted at least once every five
years.
   (C)   The Fiscal Court shall send written notification of its determination
with respect to the site approval permit application to the owner or operator
and to all persons who submitted written or oral comments during the public
comment period. The notifications shall include a written summary of the basis
for the determination.
   (D)   The Fiscal Court shall, to the extent possible or as may be required,
coordinate its review of applications for site approval under this chapter with
the exercise of authority conferred upon it pursuant to any state or federal
laws.
(Prior Code, § 51.027) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.023 FACILITY IMPACT REPORT.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   The owner or operator shall file with its application for site
approval a facility impact report which shall include the following: an
environmental impact report, a socieconomic report, and a risk assessment.
      (2)   The owner or operator shall place public notice of the availability
of the facility impact report for examination and review at the office of the
County Judge/Executive, the notice to be included in the public notice required
in §
51.021(D) with respect to the application for site approval.
   (B)   Contents of facility impact report.
      (1)   The facility impact report shall contain a socioeconomic report
which shall include a comprehensive community inventory which shall identify
the following:
         (a)   The historic land use of the facility site;
         (b)   Proximity of the proposed site to residences, schools, churches,
public parks, agricultural land, nursing homes, hospitals, cemeteries, historic
structures, and infant care facilities;
         (c)   A general profile of the business community located in the
vicinity of the facility site including any sites planned for future industrial
parks or sites being considered for any business or manufacturing facility;
         (d)   A description of any streets, highways, railroads, or waterways
which may be used to transport solid waste to the proposed site, including
information on capacity, usage, and routes;
         (e)   Cultural resources;
         (f)   Population data and projected population in the vicinity of the
facility site; and
         (g)   A statement as to the impact, on the community, including
community perception, direct and indirect impact on the local economy and
economic growth, and an analysis of the impact on land values in the vicinity
of the facility site.
      (2)   The facility impact report shall contain an environmental impact
report which shall identify existing environmental conditions in the vicinity
of the facility site. To the extent that this data may be provided in the
permit application required by state regulations, a verified copy of the permit
application may be substituted for the environmental impact report required by
this section. Nonetheless, the report is to include at a minimum:
         (a)   A geological report with a description of the soil types to
include soil permeability, stability and drainage, and the geology down through
and including the aquifer zones in the area;
         (b)   A hydrological report describing the hydrology and surface and
groundwater quality and quantity in the area, including proximity to any
aquifers and recharge areas and sensitive areas such as wetlands;
         (c)   Proximity to public and private surface or groundwater supplies,
including current and potential future uses;
         (d)   A biological report indicating the presence of significant,
threatened, or endangered species;
         (e)   An air quality survey, including the characteristics (stability)
of the atmosphere which affects the site and the population, present and
projected, in relation to the facility and the prevailing wind;
         (f)   Floodplain identification; and
         (g)   Historic, archaeological, and natural sites and landmarks,
outstanding resource waters, public forest areas, dedicated or designated open
space, public recreational areas, wildlife refuges, gamelands, and fishing
waters.
      (3)   The facility impact report shall include a risk assessment which
shall quantitatively define the public health, safety, and environmental risk
associated with routine operations and upset conditions at the facility site.
The scope and context of the impacts on the community will vary depending upon
the nature, size, duration, and extent of the activity to be conducted at the
facility site. The risk assessment shall analyze those items as identified by
the Fiscal Court, which shall include the following:
         (a)   Risks associated with accidents in transportation, such analysis
to include mode of transportation, route, schedule and frequency of deliveries,
accident rate of mode and route, and the characteristics of structures and
population, residential and non-residential, within the reasonably predicted
impact area;
         (b)   Nature, extent, quantity, and impacts of routine releases to
air, water, land from all sources at the facility site, including stormwater
runoff;
         (c)   Nature, extent, quantity, and impacts of releases to air, water,
land in upset conditions, including both historical data from comparable
facilities and modeling reasonable worst case upset conditions;
         (d)   Adequacy of emergency services (police, fire, medical) to
protect public health, safety, and environment from fire, explosion, flood,
chemical release, or any natural disaster, including emergency response
capability and the owner/operator’s Emergency Implementation Plan;
         (e)   Projections of possible health effects with particular emphasis
on occupational health, public health, chronic and acute exposure for both at
the facility site and the surrounding area; and
         (f)   Adequacy of transportation system in the event of emergency,
including an Evacuation Plan.
(Prior Code, § 51.028) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.024 FEES.
   The owner or operator shall, by certified check made payable to the Fiscal
Court, submit fees in accordance with the following schedule.
   (A)   (1)   At the time of submission of the application for site approval,
the owner or operator shall pay to the Fiscal Court an application fee of
$25,000 which is to be held in escrow for payment of the reasonable expenses of
reviewing and evaluating the application.
      (2)   Fees are required for new facilities and also for any modified or
expanded existing facilities.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the review process, the County Judge/Executive
shall tender to the owner or operator a statement setting out the actual cost
incurred by the Fiscal Court for the use of qualified consultants for
technical, accounting, or legal assistance and any other expenses incurred in
the evaluation of the application and the facility impact report, which shall
be payable upon receipt.
   (C)   The Fiscal Court may not recover costs in excess of the actual cost of
consultants and any other necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by the
Fiscal Court.
   (D)   (1)   An additional fee of $5,000 per year is due and payable each
year on the anniversary of the issuance of the permit.
      (2)   The fee shall be used to defray the costs of enforcement of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.029) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
**** DEBRIS LANDFILL ****
§ 51.035 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of concrete, asphalt, branches, stumps, wood,
materials declared a beneficial refuse by the Cabinet, or similar debris
materials to be used as fill on any on-site or off-site property within the
county without a permit under this section from the Solid Waste Coordinator.
   (B)   Items not allowed for disposal include tires, appliances, machinery,
vehicles, household solid waste, industrial solid waste, asbestos, furniture,
light fixtures, electrical devices, buckets, cardboard, paper, or any materials
considered to be a hazardous substance or are contaminated with a hazardous
substance(s) as defined by state and federal law.
   (C)   Construction/demolition debris disposal shall fall under the
permitting requirements of §
51.060.
(Prior Code, § 51.040) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Fill operations exempt from this requirement include:
      (1)   Filling directly associated with agricultural, silvacultural,
horticultural, and landscaping practices;
      (2)   Filling associated with the preparation of a site for purposed of
new construction, provided that the fill consists solely of dirt and rock; and
      (3)   Debris filling of 1,000 square feet or less.
   (B)   There is a one-time allowance for the 1,000-square-foot debris fill
exemption. Any additional debris fills shall require a permit in accordance
with this section.
(Prior Code, § 51.041) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.037 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A person seeking a debris landfill permit shall file an application with the
Solid Waste Coordinator setting for the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of the person seeking the permit;
   (B)   Exact location and address of the property proposed to be filled, the
parcel number, and access to public streets;
   (C)   Name and address of the owner of the property and permission from the
owner conducting the fill operation if different from the applicant;
   (D)   Statement of the exact nature and source of the materials to be used
as fill on the subject property;
   (E)   Letters, applications, or approvals of the fill operation plans by the
Cabinet, County Conservation District, and any other applicable agency
indicating prior review;
   (F)   A site plan showing the following:
      (1)   The entire property, principal structures, accessory buildings,
streams, and location of fill;
      (2)   Methods employed to control surface drainage during and after
completion of operations; and
      (3)   Name and address of person who prepared the site plan, approximate
scale, northpoint, and relationship of site to existing public streets.
   (G)   (1)   Proof of notification for all property owners adjacent to the
property.
      (2)   Notification must state the following: the applicant is applying
for a solid waste permit to operate a debris landfill, the applicant’s name and
address, the property parcel number of the proposed fill site, the property
owner’s name, the materials being disposed, and shall include a map showing the
location of the fill site in relation to surrounding properties and public
roads;
   (H)   (1)   Statement of procedures and safeguards the applicant proposes to
use to ensure that adjoining properties and county residents will not be
adversely affected by the proposed fill activity, including closure procedures
the applicant proposes to use when the fill is complete.
      (2)   The closure must be conducted in a manner consistent with the best
management practices promulgated by the County Conservation District and must
include a minimum of 18 inches of dirt cover, use of fertilizer, lime, and
seeding with annual and perennial grasses;
   (I)   Statement as to the length of time the applicant proposes to use the
property as a debris landfill site;
   (J)   For fill operations in excess of one-half acre, approval of a Soil
Erosion and Sediment Control Plan by the County Conservation District;
   (K)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall make available for public review a
copy of the permit application; and
   (L)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall make pre-application conferences
available to potential applicants.
      (1)   The purpose of the pre-application conference is to identify major
issues early on in the planning process.
      (2)   The conferences will be voluntary and not binding.
(Prior Code, § 51.042) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.038 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   If the application complies with the laws of the commonwealth and this
subchapter, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall issue the permit authorized by
this subchapter.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay a fee of $250 for the permit and provide proof
of the guarantee deposit in accordance with §
51.065.
   (C)   Any application that fails to comply with state, federal, and local
regulations shall be denied and the applicant notified in writing by the Solid
Waste Coordinator stating reasons for denial.
   (D)   Permits will be valid for a period not to exceed two years.
   (E)   No extensions in time will be granted; however, new applications for
on-going operations may be accepted.
(Prior Code, § 51.043) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.039 RETURN OF GUARANTEE.
   The guarantee deposit shall be returned after the following have occurred:
   (A)   The debris landfill has been closed for one year; and
   (B)   (1)   There are no outstanding notices of violations of county, state,
or federal environmental laws applicable to the fill.
      (2)   This includes any outstanding notice of violation of the
environmental performance standards outlined in 401 KAR 047:030.
(Prior Code, § 51.044) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.040 INSPECTIONS.
   Any fill operation, whether permitted or not, may be inspected by the Solid
Waste Coordinator. (Prior Code, § 51.045) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928,
passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.041 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be suspended for lack of
compliance with any of the terms of the permit or chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.046) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.042 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In the event a permit issued under this subchapter is revoked and the person
continues to operate, the Solid Waste Coordinator may request the action of a
court of law to enjoin the operation of the facility and to enforce compliance
with this chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 51.047) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.043 APPEAL.
   Appeal of any action taken by the Solid Waste Coordinator shall be to Fiscal
Court.
(Prior Code, § 51.048) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.044 PERMIT DISPLAY.
   Any person operating under a permit required by this subchapter shall
prominently display a copy of said permit, in a weatherproof manner, at the
fill site.
(Prior Code, § 51.049) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.045 GUARANTEE.
   (A)   To ensure the strict compliance with all of the above conditions and
requirements for fill operations greater than one-half acre in size, the
applicant shall deposit with the county cash or a certified check, or execute a
bond with a corporate surety authorized to do a surety business in the state.
   (B)   The amount of cash, certified check, or bond shall be fixed at the
rate of $5,000 per acre of fill or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 51.050) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
**** CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION DEBRIS LANDFILL ****
§ 51.060 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall dispose of on-site construction/demolition debris (CDD) in
excess of 1,000 square feet, principal structure demolition debris, or any off-
site CDD of any size without a construction/demolition debris landfill (CDDL)
permit from the Solid Waste Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 51.065) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   A person seeking such a permit shall file an application with the Solid
Waste Coordinator setting forth the following information:
   (A)   A permit application fee of $500;
   (B)   An original and three copies of the following:
      (1)   Completed application form;
      (2)   Site plan; and
      (3)   Narrative report.
   (C)   Proof of notification for all property owners adjacent to the
property. Notification must state the following: the applicant is applying for
a solid waste permit to operate a CDDL (or a permit extension if applicable),
the applicant’s name and address, the property parcel number of the proposed
CDDL site, the property owner’s name, and shall include a map showing the
location of the CDDL in relation to surrounding properties and public roads;
   (D)   In the case of larger than one acre CDDLs, the Solid Waste Coordinator
may accept, at his or her discretion, reports and site plans prepared in
accordance to the solid waste regulations of the Cabinet to satisfy divisions
(B)(2) and (B)(3) above. The size of the CDDL shall be based on the footprint
area of the waste cell; and
   (E)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall make pre-application conferences
available to potential applicants. The purpose of the pre-application
conference is to identify major issue early on in the planning process. The
conferences will be voluntary and not binding.
(Prior Code, § 51.066) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.062 APPLICATION FORM.
   (A)   The application must use an official application form produced by the
Solid Waste Coordinator.
   (B)   It will be the responsibility of the Solid Waste Coordinator to
produce and maintain application forms within 45 days following the passage of
this chapter.
   (C)   The official application form shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the person seeking the permit;
      (2)   Exact location and address of the property proposed to be filled,
the parcel number, and access to public streets;
      (3)   Name and address of the owner of the property and permission from
the owner to conduct the CDDL operation if different from the applicant;
      (4)   Statement of the nature and county of origin of the materials to be
used as fill on the subject property;
      (5)   Letters, applications, or certificates of approval of the fill
operation by the Cabinet and any other applicable agency indicating prior
reviews;
      (6)   Statement as to the length of time the application props to use the
property as a CDDL site; and
      (7)   Anticipated annual volume of disposed CDD material.
(Prior Code, § 51.067) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.063 SITE PLAN.
   Site plan requirements are as follows:
   (A)   Present and proposed use of land, the arrangement of all existing and
proposed buildings, structures, roads, drivers, parking areas, septic systems
(tank, line, and leachfield), underground utilities lines, wells, surface
drainage, landscaping, fencing, and all other features and facilities to be
installed or used in connection with the proposed operation;
   (B)   All existing natural features on property including tree lines,
surface water features, wetlands, 100-year floodplains, and features of karst
terrain. Known habitats of state or federally listed threatened or endangered
species on property and within 500 feet of the property boundary. The use of
remote sources of information such as aerial photography and published
information may be employed;
   (C)   Existing and proposed contours of not less than two-foot intervals as
follows:
      (1)   The present surface of all property within 250 feet of the CDDL
footprint and all associated facilities by use of distinguished line types or
colors;
      (2)   The ultimate depth elevations of the CDDL by use of distinguished
line types or colors; and
      (3)   The ultimate finished surface of the site after all filling
operations are completed by use of distinguished line types or colors.
   (D)   Structural or engineering details for the following:
      (1)   Final cap cover;
      (2)   Stormwater conveyance system and structures;
      (3)   Liner construction;
      (4)   Leachate collection system;
      (5)   Groundwater monitoring wells (if applicable);
      (6)   Truck tire cleaning facilities;
      (7)   Soil erosion and sediment control measures;
      (8)   Excavation details including stockpile areas and borrow art;
      (9)   Driveway construction;
      (10)   Profiles and cross-sections of the CDDL showing the CDD material,
cap, extent of excavation, depth to seasonal high water table, depth to
bedrock; and
      (11)   Location of soil boring(s).
   (E)   Locations where filling operations will commence and the anticipated
procedural sequence of operations;
   (F)   The calculated volumes of materials to be filled for each location or
waste cell on the site where operations are to take place;
   (G)   Names and addresses of all adjoining property owners, scale
northpoint, and relationship of site to existing public streets;
   (H)   All site plans must be signed, sealed, and prepared under the
direction of a professional engineer licensed in the commonwealth; and
   (I)   The title block of the site plan shall identify the name and address
of the company or person who prepared the plans as well as the date of the last
plan revision.
(Prior Code, § 51.068) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.064 NARRATIVE REPORT.
   (A)   The applicant must submit a narrative report of the proposed CDDL site
and property.
   (B)   The report shall be outlined as follows:
      (1)   Introduction;
      (2)   Site description:
         (a)   Geology/Hydrology/Soils Vegetation;
         (b)   Land forms (steep slopes, cliffs, waterfalls, and the like);
         (c)   Sensitive environmental areas (streams, wetlands, 100-year
floodplain, karst terrain, and the like); and
         (d)   Suitability of the property for CDDL development.
      (3)   CDDL construction:
         (a)   Anticipated sequence of construction;
         (b)   Excavation and stockpiling;
         (c)   Liner construction;
         (d)   Leachate collection system;
         (e)   Groundwater monitoring system (if applicable);
         (f)   Stormwater diversion system and maintenance driveway
constructions and maintenance;
         (g)   Truck tire cleaning facility and maintenance; and
         (h)   Soil erosion and sediment control measures and maintenance.
      (4)   CDDL operation: waste separation:
         (a)   Municipal waste separation and disposal;
         (b)   Hazardous waste separation and disposal;
         (c)   Dumping and compaction;
         (d)   Temporary waste cover dirt, dust, and litter control fire
control;
         (e)   Daily logs leachate disposal;
         (f)   Leachate monitoring (if applicable); and
         (g)   Groundwater monitoring (if applicable).
      (5)   CDDL closure plan:
         (a)   Final cap specifications; and
         (b)   Intended post operational land use.
      (6)   CDDL post-closure monitoring:
         (a)   Leachate monitoring;
         (b)   Groundwater monitoring (if applicable);
         (c)   Cap integrity monitoring; and
         (d)   Stormwater diversion system monitoring.
   (C)   (1)   The applicant is expected to produce substantive descriptions
and explanations for each section of the narrative report as outlined above.
The use of published information is allowable; however, on-site observations
should also be included in the report. At least one test pit or boring must be
submitted that describes the soils, determines the depth to seasonal high water
table, and determines the depth to bedrock. In describing the CDDL site and
property, the applicant is expected to conduct professional investigations to
demonstrate the ability of the property to support a CDDL.
      (2)   In describing the construction, operation, closure, and post-
closure monitoring of the CDDL, the applicant is expected to demonstrate
planned compliance with the provisions and requirements of this chapter. For
example, in discussing liner construction the applicant should demonstrate how
the resident soils, or other materials, will be utilized to obtain the
permeability standard state in §
51.070.
   (D)   The major author(s) or firm authoring the narrative report must be
identified on the cover or title page.
(Prior Code, § 51.069) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.065 PROCEDURE OF APPLICATION AND PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1) Application for a CDDL shall be made to the Solid Waste
Coordinator. Once received, the Solid Waste Coordinator will log-in the
application and has ten business days to place a public notice in at least one
local paper to solicit public comments and to determine the administrative
completeness of the application. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall make
available for public review a copy of the permit application.
      (2)   The public comment period shall end 30 days following the
publication of the newspaper notice.
   (B)   An application shall be deemed administratively complete if it
satisfies the requirements of §
51.061.
   (C)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall issue a letter of completeness (LOC)
to the applicant that either accepts the application as administratively
complete or declares the application administratively deficient and entirely
lists the items required to administratively complete the application. Once the
LOC is issued, the Solid Waste Coordinator can identify no new administrative
deficiencies.
   (D)   In the case of an administratively deficient determination, the
applicant shall have 30 days from the date of the LOC to submit the required
information. Failure of the applicant to respond to a LOC to submit the
required information. Failure of the applicant to respond to a LOC within the
time restraints listed above may result in the return of the permit application
without prejudice, minus a processing fee of $125. A one-time 30-day extension
may be granted by the Solid Waste Coordinator. Requests for an extension must
be made in writing.
   (E)   (1)   Once deemed administratively complete, the Solid Waste
Coordinator shall, within five days, send a copy of the application to the
County Conservation District for a technical review of the soil erosion and
sediment control plan. The Conservation District shall have 25 days to return
technical comments to the Solid Waste Coordinator.
      (2)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall, within 45 days, review the
application for its technical content and its compliance with this chapter. The
Solid Waste Coordinator shall issue a letter of review (LOR) that will identify
any technical issues and concerns that must be addressed by the applicant
including those comments forwarded by the County Conservation District. The
Solid Waste Coordinator may elect to issue a permit at this time in accordance
with division (H) below.
      (3)   The LOR shall be issued based upon the information supplied in the
application and comments received from the public and other agencies. Once
issued, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall not raise additional technical issued
unless new information is made available that warrants such an action.
   (F)   The applicant shall have 30 days, from the date of its issue, to
respond to the LOR. Failure of the applicant to respond to a LOR within the
time restraints listed above may result in the return of the permit application
without prejudice; however, the entirety of the application fee will be
forfeited. A one-time 30-day extension may be granted by the Solid Waste
Coordinator. Requests for an extension must be made in writing.
   (G)   Once received, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall have ten business
days to review the response to the LOR and either issue a CDDL permit or deny
the CDDL permit application.
   (H)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall issue a permit if the application
conforms to regulation of this chapter and the applicant has demonstrated
compliance with local zoning regulations. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall
consider outside agency and public comments in rendering a decision to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the permit. Any conditional approvals shall be
expressly stated in the CDDL permit which may include pre-operational
conditions which are actions required of the applicant before the permit is
considered active.
   (I)   (1)   Upon receipt of the permit, the applicant shall submit a letter
from a sewage treatment plant or other disposal facility stating that it will
accept the CDDL leachate, proof of a guarantee deposit in accordance with §
51.088 and a $500 annual permit fee. In addition, a monthly operating fee shall
be paid by the operator based on the monthly tonnage of disposed CDD material
and shall be assessed at $0.50 per ton.
      (2)   The applicant may demonstrate a conversion factor to determine tons
by cubic yards and it will be used if accepted by the Solid Waste Coordinator.
The monthly operating fee shall be submitted starting with the first monthly
report and monthly reports thereafter. A late payment fee shall be assessed at
$0.10 per ton of disposed CDD material for every 30 days the monthly operating
fee is delinquent.
   (J)   Filling operations may begin immediately upon receipt of the annual
permit fee, issuance of the permit, and satisfaction of all pre-operational
conditions.
   (K)   Permits shall be valid for a period not to exceed ten years for CDDLs
greater than one acre in size or two years for CDDLs of one acre or less in
size.
   (L)   The annual permit fee shall be due on the anniversary of the permit
issuance date. A late payment fee shall be assessed at $100 for every 30 days
the annual operating fee is delinquent.
(Prior Code, § 51.070) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.066 PERMIT EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   A CDDL of less than one acre shall not be granted a permit extension.
   (B)   A CDDL of greater than one acre may apply for a permit extension under
the following conditions.
      (1)   Application for a permit extension must be made 180 days prior to
the expiration of the existing permit, unless permission is granted for a later
date by the Solid Waste Coordinator.
      (2)   Applications for renewal must follow the application requirements
outlined in this subchapter.
      (3)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall consider whether all conditions
of the original permit and modifications of permit conditions were met. The
Solid Waste Coordinator may request updated information necessary for
reevaluating the permit’s suitability of reissuance and impose additional or
modified permit conditions when deemed appropriate.
      (4)   Permit renewals shall be issued for an additional ten-year period.
(Prior Code, § 51.071) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.067 MINIMUM SITING STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   CDDLs and operations and activities associated with CDDLs may
not be placed or occur in any type of intermittent stream, perennial stream,
river, pond, lake, impoundment, wetland, 100-year floodplain, feature of karst
terrain, or habitat of state or federally listed threatened or endangered
species.
      (2)   An exception to the above (baring habitat for state or federally
listed threatened or endangered species) is allowed for linear development such
as stormwater conveyance structures, access driveways, utility crossings, and
the like, so long as no other practicable alternative exists that would
otherwise avoid the impact.
   (B)   CDDLs shall not be placed within:
      (1)   Two hundred fifty feet of any unplugged well except monitoring
wells;
      (2)   Fifty feet of aseptic system leach field;
      (3)   Twenty-five feet of a septic system collection tank;
      (4)   Fifty feet of a gas, sewer, or water line for a greater than one
acre CDDL and 25 feet for a less than one acre CDDL;
      (5)   Two hundred fifty feet of a feature of a karst terrain;
      (6)   One thousand feet of an intermittent or perennial stream; and
      (7)   Two hundred fifty feet of a pond, lake, impoundment, or wetland.
   (C)   Exceptions to divisions (A) and (B) above are as follows.
      (1)   Re-routing and piping of intermittent streams is allowable so long
as the appropriate state of federal permits are obtained including a 401 water
quality certificate pursuant to 401 KAR 005:029 through 401 KAR 005:031.
      (2)   Filling of isolated ponds and impoundments of ephemeral or
intermittent streams is allowable so long as the appropriate state or federal
permits are obtained.
(Prior Code, § 51.072) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.068 MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   CDDLs must be constructed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   General construction standards are as follows.
      (1)   Side slopes shall conform to state regulations and be mowable, but
in no event shall exceed one foot by four feet.
      (2)   The installation of roads, parking areas, buildings, structures,
and operation facilities and equipment shall be located on the site so that
adjoining properties will not be adversely affected. At minimum, the roads and
parking areas must be designed to withstand heavy truck and machinery traffic.
      (3)   All CDDLs must construct and maintain a truck tire cleaning
facility in conformance with the approved permit design. Mechanical devices,
such as gravel construction entrance pads, are encouraged.
(Prior Code, § 51.073) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.069 LINERS.
   (A)   All CDDLs must be constructed with a bottom and sidewall liner.
   (B)   Liners shall be constructed of soil with a minimum thickness of 24
inches. The low permeability soil component shall include a minimum of 12
contiguous inches of one by ten centimeters per second maximum permeability
material, or its equivalent. A professional engineer must certify that the
completed liner complies with the permeability standard. The certification
document shall include a minimum of four post-construction tests per acre of
constructed liner that sups the certification. All sampling, testing, and
certifications shall be performed by an independent entity(s). The test results
shall be presented to the Solid Waste Coordinator before the liner inspection.
   (C)   Liner construction may be staged in sections. Sections shall be no
smaller than one-fourth acre in size. The partial liner sections must possess
sufficient edge to allow proper construction of a seam when the remaining
portion of the liner is constructed. This edge must be protected from damage
until such time that the seam is created. Each section shall be tested for
liner permeability as outlined in division (B) above.
   (D)   The minimum bottom slope shall be 3% towards the leachate collection
line and 1% along the leachate collection line.
   (E)   The lowest component of the CDDL liner shall be at least four feet
above the seasonal high water table.
   (F)   The lowest component of the CDDL liner shall be at least two feet
above the bedrock.
   (G)   (1)   A bearing layer of select CDD or other approved material, a
minimum thickness of 24 inches, shall be deposited over the liner to protect it
from damage caused by heavy machinery and/or other operational aspects. Bearing
layer material shall be free from large objects or other debris that, when
placed on the liner, could harm the integrity of the liner system.
      (2)   In addition, a professional engineer shall certify that the bearing
layer possess enough permeability so as to not adversely affect the integrity
of the leachate collection system. The bearing layer shall be installed prior
to CDD disposal. This requirement can be superseded by a Cabinet-approved
drainage layer as per 401 KAR 048:060.
(Prior Code, § 51.074) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.070 LEACHATE COLLECTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Conveyance system.
      (1)   All CDDLs shall have a leachate collection system in place prior to
CDD disposal.
      (2)   At minimum, a leachate collection system shall consist of a toe-
drain and a single interior collection line. The interior collection pipe will
be, at minimum, an eight-inch diameter perforated pipe, surrounded by two feet
of crushed rocks.
      (3)   The toe-drain will be constructed along the down gradient side of
the CDDL.
      (4)   Extension of the toe-drain collection system around the perimeter
of the CDDL or the construction of additional interior collections lines may be
required if the shape of the CDDL or other site conditions is such that total
leachate collection is uncertain. The Solid Waste Coordinator will maintain the
right to require additional improvements at his or her discretion to ensure the
leqachate is collected.
      (5)   Staging of lateral line construction or activation in order to
capture leachate from an active filling area and to avoid collecting stormwater
that has not come in contact with CDD is permissible.
   (B)   Collection tank.
      (1)   All leachate collected by the leachate conveyance system must be
discharged to the leachate collection tank.
      (2)   The tank may be made of fiberglass, steel, or pre-casted concrete.
A single tank or multiple tanks may be used; however, the total tank capacity
shall be a minimum of 2,000 gallons.
      (3)   The construction of the tank may be similar to that used in
standard septic system designs.
      (4)   The design of the tank must be such that standard laboratory
sampling devices, such as bailers, can be employed to extract sufficient
quantities of the leachate for testing.
      (5)   All pipe entrances to the tank must be sealed to be watertight.
      (6)   The top manhole port used to evacuate the internal product must be
a minimum of ten inches in diameter and exposed for easy access.
      (7)   Any tools necessary for the removal of the port lid must be present
on site at all times until closure of the CDDL.
(Prior Code, § 51.075) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.071 STORMWATER DIVERSION SYSTEM.
   (A)   All CDDLs shall have the permanent stormwater diversion system in
place down gradient of the waste cell footprint before CDD disposal can
commence. Construction of temporary ditches to divert stormwater to the
permanent system during construction is required.
   (B)   Stormwater diversion systems will be designed to reduce leachate
production during construction of the CDDL, divert all stormwater around and
away from the CDDL, divert stream flows, and to protect the CDDL from erosion.
   (C)   The permanent system must have the design capacity to handle a 25-year
storm event and be hydrologically connected to a surface water feature (i.e.,
ditch, stream, pond, and the like).
   (D)   At minimum, the permanent system shall consist of a two-foot-wide
ditch or swale that extends around the perimeter of the CDDL. The permanent
conveyance structure shall be lined with a minimum of six inches of rip-rap or
geo-textile fabrics.
   (E)   (1) The Solid Waste Coordinator shall maintain the right to require
additional stormwater diversion structures or facilities at his or her
discretion in order to protect the CDDL from erosion or to reduce leachate
production.
      (2)   This includes, but is not limited to, requiring the installation of
scour-holes, berms, revetment, headwalls, and detention ponds.
(Prior Code, § 51.076) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.072 FINAL CAP SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The CDDL shall be capped with at least two feet of compacted soil
graded with sufficient slope to allow run-off of stormwater. Acceptable soils
for use in constructing the CDDL cap include clay and silty clay, as defined by
the Unified Soil Classification System.
   (B)   Soil shall be conditioned to properly take to seeding. Therefore,
liming and fertilizing is required as well as a thick seed cover of two
legumes, one perennial grass, and one annual grass.
   (C)   Lime shall be applied at a rate of two tons per acre.
   (D)   Fertilizer, 10-10-10, shall be applied at a rate of 100 lbs per acre.
   (E)   Straw mulch shall be applied at a rate of 70 bales per acre.
   (F)   Other mulching, seeding, and conditioning options may be employed such
a hydroseeding and use of topsoil with prior approval from the Solid Waste
Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 51.077) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.073 LEACHATE COLLECTION SYSTEM OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator shall maintain the leachate collection system in
waking order at all times. The leachate collection system shall be visually
inspected every week and the quantity of leachate in the collection tank
recorded in a log.
      (2)   In addition, the leachate collection log shall reflect when
leachate is removed, the volume removed, the disposal company employed, and the
ultimate method of disposal.
   (B)   Any damage to the leachate collection system shall be corrected within
48 hours of its occurrence. The events shall be recorded and reported to the
Solid Waste Coordinator during the monthly status report.
   (C)   Any failures of the leachate collection system shall be recorded and
reported to the Solid Waste Coordinator within 48 hours of its occurrence and
noted in the monthly status report.
   (D)   Leachate shall be properly disposed at a wastewater treatment plant or
through a licensed disposal facility.
   (E)   Leachate shall be pumped out of the collection tank and properly
disposed when the tank reaches 90% capacity.
   (F)   Waste characterization (sampling analysis) of the leachate shall be
performed in accordance with the requirements of the leachate disposal
facility. Results of all characterization analyses shall be sent to the Solid
Waste Coordinator with the monthly report.
   (G)   Leachate shall be sampled every two months during operation of the
CDDL and quarterly after the CDDL is capped. Monitoring shall continue two
years following closure of the CDDL. All sampling and testing shall be
conducted by an independent laboratory.
   (H)   Leachate shall be tested for the following parameters:
      (1)   pH;
      (2)   Total Nitrogen (TN);
      (3)   Total Organic Carbon (TOC);
      (4)   Sulfates;
      (5)   Suspended solids;
      (6)   Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC);
      (7)   Semi-Volatile Organic Compounds (SVOC);
      (8)   Priority pollutant and sludge metals; and
      (9)   Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs).
   (I)   Monitoring requirements may be related at the discretion of the Solid
Waste Coordinator whereby the frequency of testing, the duration of sampling,
or the tested parameters may be reduced if it can be demonstrated by the
operator that human health and safety and environmental protection are not
compromised.
   (J)   The requirement for leachate monitoring shall be waived if a Cabinet
approved groundwater monitoring plan is implemented.
(Prior Code, § 51.078) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.074 GENERAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   CDDLs may operate during daylight hours Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   The operation shall be conducted so as not to create a nuisance or
cause undue noise, vibration, dust, or odor to adjacent properties. The
premises shall be kept in a neat and clean condition at all times. Loose paper
or debris shall be controlled on the site. Dusty conditions shall be corrected
by sprinkling with water or other methods meeting current state standards.
   (C)   Debris is to be spread and compacted over the site by the end of the
working day following disposal.
   (D)   No burning of any material is to occur at the CDDL. Any smoldering
flame or spontaneous combustion shall be immediately extinguished. Any fires at
the CDDL must be reported in the status report.
   (E)   Only construction/demolition debris allowed by the Cabinet shall be
disposed in the CDDL. Substances deemed hazardous by the state and/or federal
law, or any other nonconstruction/demolition debris material shall not be
disposed in the CDDL.
   (F)   All CDD loads shall first be sent to a permitted transfer facility
before they are diverted to a less than one acre CDDL. All loads for a less
than one acre CDDL shall be inspected at the transfer facility. All loads for a
greater than one acre CDDL shall be inspected at the facility gate. All non-CDD
is to be extracted from the load. Extracted waste shall be properly disposed.
Non-hazardous waste not allowed in the CDDL shall be transported to a contained
landfill. A licensed hauler shall transport hazardous waste to a properly
permitted hazardous waste disposal facility. Recyclable materials may be
extracted at this time. The remaining CDD shall then be transferred directly to
the working face of the CDDL or first reduced in volume by mechanical means.
Diversions of disposal ready loads of CDD directly to the CDDL is permitted
with prior approval from the Solid Waster Coordinator.
   (G)   Roads accessing the property of the CDDL site must be kept cleared of
mud, dirt, and other debris associated with the construction, operation, and
closure of the CDDL.
   (H)   (1)   Two sets of daily logs of the CDDL use shall be generated by the
operator. The first set of logs shall be maintained at the place of business of
the operator, and within the county, and shall include the date, origin of the
debris (to include the name, address, and phone number of the responsible
party), number of truck loads, and the total cubic yards disposed. This set of
logs will be available to the Solid Waste Coordinator with a minimum of 24-
hours’ prior notice. The information concerning the origin of the debris shall
be maintained as confidential, except as necessary to establish a violation
pursuant to §§
51.085 and
51.999 or in an appeal pursuant to §
51.086.
      (2)   The operator shall have the right to seek confidential treatment of
the information concerning the origin of the debris in any proceeding conducted
pursuant to §§
51.085,
51.086, and
51.999. The second set of daily logs shall be submitted as part of the monthly
status report and shall include the date, number of truck loads, and the total
cubic yards disposed at the CDDL.
   (I)   A monthly status report detailing the daily log summary, leachate,
monitoring results, leachate characterization results, leachate collection log,
groundwater monitoring results (if applicable), any incidents, corrective
measures, and any other reporting requirements of this chapter must be
submitted to the Solid Waste Coordinator by the twentieth of the following
month.
   (J)   CDDL must have a sign at the driveway entrance in accordance with
state and county regulations.
   (K)   A landfill operator, certified by the Cabinet, shall be on duty or
available any time the CDDL is open for use. The use of an interim operator is
permissible as long as the Solid Waste Coordinator is notified.
   (L)   The operator shall obtain and maintain, in good standing order, all
other local and state permits and requirements.
(Prior Code, § 51.079) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.075 CLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   A CDDL shall be considered closed after the following have occurred:
   (A)   The CDDL does not accept any additional quantities of waste;
   (B)   The CDDL is properly capped, mulched, seeded, and fertilized;
   (C)   The CDDL cap and all disturbed areas associated with the CDDL
construction have obtained 90% vegetative ground cover;
   (D)   Leachate production has ceased or tested parameters are below the
appropriate state groundwater or surface water standards for two testing
periods;
   (E)   The operator has submitted an as-built survey and site plan of the
CDDL showing the final elevation contours of the CDDL cap (The site plan shall
show the final volume of the landfill with and without the cap material. The
site plan shall also follow the specification outline herein.); and
   (F)   The Solid Waste Coordinator has conducted the final inspection of the
CDDL.
(Prior Code, § 51.080) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.076 RETURN OF GUARANTEE.
   The guarantee deposit shall be returned after the following have occurred:
   (A)   The CDDL has been closed for two years; and
   (B)   There are no outstanding notices of violations of county, state, or
federal environmental laws applicable to the CDDL. This includes any
outstanding violations of the environmental performance standards outlined in
401 KAR 047:030.
(Prior Code, § 51.081) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.077 WAIVER OF STRICT COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The applicant may apply for a waiver of strict compliance herewith.
   (B)   Waivers of strict compliance must state the nature of the waiver
requested and the reasons why this will not cause a measurable impact to the
health, safety, and welfare of the public, integrity of the environment, and
the ability of the Solid Waste Coordinator to enforce this chapter. It will be
at the discretion of the Solid Waste Coordinator to issue a waiver of strict
compliance to the CDDL permit. The Solid Waste Coordinator decision shall be
based upon the potential impact of the waiver to the health, safety, and
welfare of the public, and the potential to pollute or otherwise degrade the
environment. The Solid Waste Coordinator, under the following conditions, may
issue waivers of strict compliance.
      (1)   Waivers of strict compliance are to be made in writing with an
original and three copies of all information submitted.
      (2)   Applications for a waiver of strict compliance shall include:
         (a)   A non-refundable fee of $500 if the waiver application is made
outside of the initial CDDL permit application. No permit fee shall be assessed
if the waiver application is made with the initial CDDL permit application; and
         (b)   Proof of notification for all property owners adjacent to the
property that states the applicant is applying for a waiver of strict
compliance and the nature of the waiver, the applicant’s name and address, the
property parcel number of the CDDL property, the property owner’s name, and
must include a map showing the location of the CDDL in relation to surrounding
properties and public roads.
      (3)   Provisions of the waiver approval shall be incorporated as
conditions to the CDDL permit and shall be relevant to that permit only.
      (4)   Waivers of strict compliance shall not be entertained after a
permit application has been denied.
      (5)   No waiver may be issued that would violate state or federal law.
      (6)   (a)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall place a public notice in at
least one local paper to solicit public comments on the waiver of strict
compliance.
         (b)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall make available for public
review a copy of the waiver application. A 30-day public comment period shall
be observed before a decision is rendered.
      (7)   The Solid Waste Coordinator may place a time limit on the waiver.
(Prior Code, § 51.082) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.078 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   This section sets forth the requirements for changes to permits.
(Prior Code, § 51.083) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.079 TRANSFER OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit is not transferable without approval by the Solid Waste
Coordinator. New owners or operators shall provide the Solid Waste Coordinator
with the appropriate information such as name, address, and phone number and
revised bonding (if appropriate).
   (B)   (1)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall issue a new permit to
incorporate the new owners or operators.
      (2)   Transfer of ownership shall be consider a major permit
modification.
(Prior Code, § 51.084) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.080 MAJOR AND MINOR PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Solid Waste Coordinator may, upon review of submitted information,
which sufficiently describes the request action, issue a permit modification to
the operator or owner. Any permit not processed as a major modification shall
be deemed a minor modification and shall be exempt from the public notification
requirements prior to approval. A major modification shall be deemed to exist
if the proposed change is of the scope and nature that the Solid Waste
Coordinator determines that public notice is necessary to allow participation
the county’s decision by persons who have an interest which may be adversely
affected by the proposed change.
   (B)   Major modification shall include, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   An increase in the area authorized for waste disposal of any unit
as represented by the waste boundary in the original application and permit
(This type of action is a horizontal expansion.);
      (2)   An increase in the CDDL capacity that extends the life of the
facility by more than two years and is not a horizontal expansion (This type of
action is a vertical expansion.);
      (3)   Transfer of ownership to a person other than that named on the
permit; and
      (4)   Implementation of a corrective action plan required by the Cabinet
under 401 KAR 048:300, § 8(9). The public notice requirements shall not hamper
corrective action activities in situations where there is an immediate threat
to human health or the environment.
(Prior Code, § 51.085) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.081 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS APPLICATION.
   (A)   Permit modifications are to be made in writing with an original and
three copies of all information submitted.
   (B)   Applications for a permit modification shall include:
      (1)   A non-refundable fee of $250 for a minor permit modification or a
non-refundable fee of $500 fee for a major permit modification; and
      (2)   For a major permit modification: proof of notification for all
property owners adjacent to the property that states the applicant is applying
for a major permit modification, the nature of the modification, the
applicant’s name and address, the property parcel number of the CDDL property,
the property owner’s name, and must include a map showing the location of the
CDDL in relation to surrounding properties and public roads.
   (C)   For a major permit modification, the Solid Waste Coordinator shall
place a public notice in at least one local paper to solicit public comments.
The Solid Waste Coordinator shall make available for public review a copy of
the major permit modification. A 30-day public comment period shall be observed
before a decision is rendered.
   (D)   Provisions of the permit modification shall be incorporated as
editions to the CDDL permit and shall be relevant to that permit only.
   (E)   No permit modification may be issued that would violate state or
federal law.
(Prior Code, § 51.086) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.082 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Any fill operation, whether permitted or not, may be inspected by the
Solid Waste Coordinator.
   (B)   In addition, the following mandatory inspection criteria will apply.
      (1)   Liner.
         (a)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall inspect the liner, testing
data, and bearing layer when it is completed. The liner shall be inspected for
completeness and permeability. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall respond to a
request for an inspection of the liner system within two working days of the
request.
         (b)   If the Solid Waste Coordinator fails to inspect within two
working days, the permittee may proceed to the next phase of construction,
after submitting certification from a registered professional engineer that
construction has been completed in accordance with the applicable requirements
of this chapter and permit conditions. In addition, the permittee must provide
proof of guarantee as per §
51.088.
      (2)   Leachate collection system.
         (a)   The Solid Waste Coordinator shall inspect the leachate
collection system when it is completed. The leachate collection system shall be
inspected for completeness and workmanship. The inspection shall take place
before trenches and excavations are back-filled. The Solid Waste Coordinator
shall respond to a request for an inspection of the leachate collection system
within two working days of the request.
         (b)   If the Solid Waste Coordinator fails to inspect within two
working days, the permittee may proceed to the next phase of construction,
after submitting certification from a registered professional engineer that
construction has been completed in accordance with the applicable requirements
of this chapter and permit conditions.
      (3)   Final inspection. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall inspect the
CDDL when it is completed. The inspection will focus on the integrity of the
cap and stormwater diversion system as well as any other feature associated
with the CDDL. The CDDL shall be considered closed following approval of the
final inspection.
      (4)   Post-closure inspection. The Solid Waste Coordinator shall inspect
the CDDL no less than two years following closure of the facility. The
inspection will focus on the integrity of the cap and stormwater diversion
systems as well as any other feature associated with the CDDL. This inspection
approval is required before the guarantee deposit can be released.
(Prior Code, § 51.087) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.083 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be suspended for violations or
lack of compliance. The revocation of a disposal permit issued by the Cabinet
or the failure to pay required fees shall be considered just cause for the
suspension or revocation of any county permit issued for the same site. (Prior
Code, § 51.088) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.084 STOP WORK ORDER.
   In instances where continued operation or construction of the CDDL in
violation of this chapter will pose an immediate risk to the human safety or
the environment, or repeated violations have been made by the operator, the
Solid Waste Coordinator shall have the right to impose a stop work order.
Issuance of a stop work order shall be made in writing and given to the
operator of the CDDL and the land owner. The stop work order shall stipulate
the corrective actions that must take place in order to resume operations at
the CDDL.
(Prior Code, § 51.089) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.085 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In the event a permit issued under this subchapter is revoked, or a stop
work order is in effect and the person continues to operate, the Solid Waste
Coordinator may request the action of a court of law to enjoin the acts and to
enforce compliance with this chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 51.090) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.086 APPEAL.
   Appeal of any action taken by the Solid Waste Coordinator under this
subchapter shall be to the Fiscal Court.
(Prior Code, § 51.091) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.087 PERMIT DISPLAY.
   Any person operating under a permit required by this subchapter shall
prominently display a copy of the permit, in a weatherproof manner, at the fill
site.
(Prior Code, § 51.092) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.088 GUARANTEE.
   To ensure the strict compliance with all of the above conditions, the
applicant shall deposit with the county cash or certified check or execute a
bond with a corporate surety authorized to do a surety business in the state.
The amount of cash, certified check, or bond shall be fixed at the rate of
$5,000 per acre of liner constructed or portion thereof. Initial applications
for a CDDL must submit a minimum guarantee to cover one acre of constructed
liner or $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 51.093) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be imprisoned for a period not to
exceed one year or be subjected to a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense.
Each occurrence or, in the case of a violation of permit requirements, each day
of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 51.999) (Ord. passed 9-28-1999; Ord. 99-0928, passed 9-28-1999)
CHAPTER 52: SEWAGE
Section
On-site Sewage Disposal Systems
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Certified operators
   
52.03   Installation
   
52.04   Operation and maintenance
   
52.05   Permits and inspections
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS ****
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM. An on-site sewage system other than a
conventional system which treats sewage to a secondary level before discharging
to the subsurface soil absorption portion of the system (lateral field) for
further treatment.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. A person that is employed by a manufacturer or
under contract to provide technical information for the manufacturer of a
particular alternative on-site sewage system.
   CONVENTIONAL ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM. A sewage system consisting of a
pretreatment unit(s), distribution box(es), and lateral piping within rock
filled trenches or beds.
   CERTIFIED OPERATOR. A person that has received manufacturer training and
approval to properly operate, maintain, and repair specific alternative system
(s), and holds valid installer certification or other certifications issued by
the Cabinet for Health Services, Department for Public Health.
   LATERAL FIELD. The area in which the subsurface soil absorption system is
installed.
   MAINTENANCE. The routine servicing of components and equipment, including
replacement of expendable filters or treatment media, required to keep an
alternative system working properly.
   MAINTENANCE CONTRACT. A written contract between the system owner and the
manufacturer or certified operator detailing the maintenance services and
operational requirements necessary to keep an alternative system working
properly, and the responsibilities of all parties.
   OPERATION. The general or daily procedures necessary, including monitoring
of water usage and materials entering the wastewater, to keep an alternative
system working properly.
   SECONDARY TREATMENT LEVEL. Less than 30 mg/l BOD (five-day Biochemical
Oxygen Demand) and TSS (Total Suspended Solids).
(Ord. 2011-0809A, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 52.02 CERTIFIED OPERATORS.
   (A)   General. Any on-site sewage system requiring a permanent operation and
maintenance contract as a condition of approval may only be operated and
maintained by a certified operator, acting as an authorized representative of
the manufacturer, who has been properly trained to operate and maintain the
particular type of system being used.
   (B)   Training requirements for certified operators, certified inspectors,
and certified installers.
      (1)   Any person wishing to become a certified operator of these
alternative systems, or a certified inspector wishing to utilize these
alternative systems, or a certified installer wishing to install these
alternative systems, shall be trained and certified by the manufacturer of the
particular alternative system and shall maintain the certification as per the
manufacturer’s requirements.
      (2)   The training material and courses provided by the manufacturer
shall be approved by the Department for Public Health.
      (3)   Training shall include an instructional manual for each person
provided by the approved manufacturer that covers all aspects of the system.
Such information shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   How the system works;
         (b)   Sizing and design;
         (c)   Construction and installation procedures;
         (d)   Inspection procedures;
         (e)   Operation and maintenance requirements for the particular kind
of system, including trouble-shooting procedures;
         (f)   Schematics of all system components;
         (g)   Schematics of typical system layout showing all components; and/
or
         (h)   Warranty information.
(Ord. 2011-0809A, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 52.03 INSTALLATION.
   During the first two installations in the county, the manufacturer or
designated representative must be present during installation with the trained
certified installer and certified inspector.
(Ord. 2011-0809A, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 52.04 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Each alternative system shall be operated and maintained in
accordance with the manufacturer’s requirements.
      (2)   The manufacturer or a certified operator acting as agent, shall, at
a minimum, perform semi-annual (every six months) field service/inspections on
the system. If a more frequent service/inspection interval is a requirement for
proper operation of a particular system, that service/inspection interval shall
be performed. Each service/inspection report shall include the following
minimum information:
         (a)   Owner’s name, address, and location of the system;
         (b)   Description of any malfunctions observed and corrective actions
taken;
         (c)   A checklist showing that each component of the system was
checked and found to be functioning properly; and
         (d)   Any other relevant information needed for the particular type of
system.
      (3)   Reports shall be submitted to the Department for Public Health, the
owner of the system, and the Three Rivers District Health Department on a semi-
annual basis and shall be provided by the fifteenth of the month following the
month of the service/inspection. In the event of a major malfunction which
results in sewage backup into the structure served by the system, or surfacing
of sewage/effluent, it shall be the responsibility of the owner of the system
to contact the Three Rivers District Health Department and the certified
operator. Contact shall be made no later than 24 hours after the malfunction,
and the owner shall reduce or cease wastewater flow as needed to prevent
further damage until repairs are made.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer shall provide a two-year limited warranty to
the owner from the date of installation covering all parts and materials
excluding the lateral field components (unless the lateral field components are
part of the overall system package).
      (2)   The manufacturer or authorized representative shall provide an
initial service policy to the owner for two years from the date of installation
which shall be included in the original purchase price. The initial service
policy shall consist of the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Semi-annual (every six months) field inspections to include
adjustment and servicing of mechanical, electrical, and other applicable
components to ensure proper functioning of the system; and
         (b)   If a malfunction is observed which cannot be corrected at the
time of the service inspection, the owner, Department for Public Health, and
the Three Rivers District Health Department shall be notified immediately in
writing of the condition and of the estimated date of correction. If the
malfunction has the potential to create an immediate health hazard from sewage
backup or surfacing, the owner shall be told before leaving the property. If
the owner or other responsible person is unavailable, a warning notice shall be
posted in a conspicuous location, with a contact telephone number included. The
Department for Public Health and Three Rivers District Health Department shall
also be notified within 24 hours.
      (3)   After the initial two-year service policy as provided by the
manufacturer has expired, it shall be the owner’s responsibility to maintain an
on-going service contract with the manufacturer or a certified operator that
meets the requirements of divisions (A), (B)(2)(a), and (B)(2)(b) above. Proof
of the contract shall be provided to the Department for Public Health and the
Three Rivers District Health Department within five business days after the
change.
      (4)   The system owner may become certified to operate and maintain his
or her own system provided that he, she, or they are trained and certified by
the manufacturer. Proof of the certification must be submitted to the
Department for Public Health and to the Three Rivers District Health
Department.
      (5)   The system shall be maintained and operated in accordance with the
manufacturer’s requirements and this regulation.
(Ord. 2011-0809A, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 52.05 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Plans for the first three systems of a specific type installed in the
county shall be submitted to the Department for Public Health for review and
approval before a permit is issued. After the first three systems have been
permitted and given a final installation approval, the Three Rivers District
Health Department may issue permits under its own review and approval. However,
a copy of the completed file for each locally approved system shall be sent to
the Department for Public Health within five business days following the final
inspection.
   (B)   The Three Rivers District Health Department shall inspect the entire
system as to design and components along with an authorized manufacturer’s
representative. If the system is acceptable, a final approval shall be issued.
Prior to the issuing of a permit, the prospective owner must complete an
owner’s experimental system affidavit and a deeds and covenants attachment
approved by the Department for Public Health. The deeds and covenants
attachments must be attached to the property deed before final approval is
granted in order to inform future owners of the system type and of the
operation and maintenance requirements.
(Ord. 2011-0809A, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $10, nor more than $100 for each offense. Each day of violation shall
be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2011-0809A, passed 8-9-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts and All-Terrain Vehicles
   
70.01   Authorization
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Conditions of operation
   
70.04   Regulations for operation
Special Purpose Vehicles
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Designated highways
   
70.17   Exceptions
   
70.18   Prohibitions
**** GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ****
§ 70.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Fiscal Court does hereby authorize and regulate the operation of golf
carts and all-terrain vehicles on the public roadways specified herein that are
under its jurisdiction and pursuant to the terms and conditions as set forth
herein.
(Ord. 16-0510B, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The golf carts authorized and regulated by this subchapter are those
as defined in KRS 189.286(1)(a).
   (B)   The all-terrain vehicles authorized and regulated by this subchapter
are those as defined in KRS 189.010(24).
(Ord. 16-0510B, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 70.03 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   Any golf cart or all-terrain vehicle operated on a designated public roadway
pursuant to this subchapter shall, prior to said operation:
   (A)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart or all-terrain vehicle by the
Fiscal Court. The fee for said permit shall be $10. Said permit shall be
renewed annually in July of each year;
   (B)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart or all-
terrain vehicle is allowed to be operated on specified roadways within the
county; and
   (C)   Be inspected annually by a certified inspector designated by the
County Sheriff and certified through the Department of Vehicle Registration
pursuant to KRS 186A.115. The Sheriff shall be authorized to collect any fee
for inspection that he or she otherwise would charge pursuant to KRS Chapter
189 for vehicle inspections. The Sheriff’s inspection shall be limited to
ensuring compliance with this subchapter and applicable provisions of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes. The Sheriff’s inspection shall not constitute or
warranty as to the mechanical fitness or safeness of said vehicle.
(Ord. 16-0510B, passed 5-10-2016)
§ 70.04 REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION.
   A person may operate a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle on the specified
public roadways within the said county if, and only if, the following
conditions are complied with:
   (A)   The posted speed limit of the portion of the designated public roadway
upon which the golf cart or all-terrain vehicle is being operation is 35 mph or
less;
   (B)   The operator of the golf cart or all-terrain vehicle does not cross a
roadway at an intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed
limit of more than 35 mph;
   (C)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her possession;
   (D)   The golf cart or all-terrain vehicle shall only be operated between
sunrise and sunset;
   (E)   The golf cart or all-terrain vehicle shall display a slow moving
vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820;
   (F)   Any all-terrain vehicle shall be equipped with at least one headlight
and two taillights, and said lights shall be illuminated at all times the
vehicle is in operation pursuant to KRS 189.515(6)(f);
   (G)   A golf cart or all-terrain vehicle operating on specified public
roadway under this subchapter shall be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-
080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of insurance shall be inside the
golf cart or all-terrain vehicle at all times of operation on public roadway;
and
   (H)   Any operator of a golf cart or all-terrain vehicle shall comply with
all other terms and provisions of KRS 189.286, other state statutes and motor
vehicle laws, and ordinances of the county.
(Ord. 16-0510B, passed 5-10-2016)
SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 70.15 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in section (1)(1) of the 2025 Kentucky Acts Ch. 89
and as may be amended in the future by the Kentucky General Assembly, are
adopted and incorporated as if set forth fully herein. For the purpose of this
subchapter, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE. An all terrain vehicle, utility terrain vehicle,
minitruck, pneumatic-tired military vehicle, or full-size special purpose-built
vehicle, including a vehicle that is self-constructed or built by the original
equipment manufacturer and a vehicle that has been modified.
   STREET-LEGAL SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE.
      (1)   A special purpose vehicle that meets the requirements of this
section and is equipped with:
         (a)   One or more headlamps;
         (b)   One or more tail lamps;
         (c)   One or more brake lamps;
         (d)   A trail lamp or other lamp constructed and placed to illuminate
the registration plate with a white light;
         (e)   One or more red reflectors on the rear of the vehicle;
         (f)   An amber electric turn system, one on each side of the front of
the vehicle;
         (g)   Amber or red electric turn signals on the rear of the vehicle;
         (h)   A braking system, other than parking brake;
         (i)   A horn or other warning device;
         (j)   A working muffler;
         (k)   Rearview mirrors on the right and left side of the driver;
         (1)   A windshield, unless the operator of the vehicle wears eye
protection while operating the vehicle;
         (m)   A speedometer, illuminated for nighttime operation;
         (n)   A roll bar or cage;
         (o)   For multi-passenger vehicles a seatbelt assembly that conforms
to the federal motor safety standard for each designated seating position; and
         (p)   Tires that have at least two thirty-seconds (2/32) of an inch or
greater tire tread.
      (3)   A STREET-LEGAL SPECIAL PURPOSE vehicle does not include a vehicle
that travels at 25 mph or less.
      (4)   A person operating a STREET-LEGAL SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE must
possess a valid operator’s license, registration, proof of insurance, and proof
of inspection from the County Sheriff’s Office.
      (5)   A STREET-LEGAL SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE must be registered with the
County Clerk.
      (6)   A STREET-LEGAL SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE will be insured in the same
form and amounts as set forth for motorcycles.
      (7)   A STREET-LEGAL SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE must be inspected by a
certified inspector in the County Sheriff’s Office.
      (8)   A person operating a STREET-LEGAL SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLE under
this subchapter must comply with all applicable traffic regulations.
(Ord. 25-0624B, passed 6-24-2025)
§ 70.16 DESIGNATED HIGHWAYS.
   Street-legal special purpose vehicles shall be allowed on all highways that
are located within the jurisdictional limits of the county. For the purposes of
this subchapter, streets in the City of Carrollton are excluded.
(Ord. 25-0624B, passed 6-24-2025)
§ 70.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   Street-legal special purpose vehicles shall not be allowed to operate:
   (A)   On any highway, or portion thereof, located within the jurisdictional
limits of the county unless permitted by this subchapter;
   (B)   On any highway, or portion thereof, that is operating as a school zone
during pick up or drop- off hours;
   (C)   On any highway, or portion thereof, that is owned or being operated by
the County Schools, including, but not limited to, Kathryn Winn Primary,
Cartmell Elementary, Carroll County Middle School, or Can-oil County High
School;
   (D)   On any highway, or portion thereof, that is a controlled access
system, including, but not limited to, an interstate or parkway; or
   (E)   On any highway, or portion thereof, where the United States Department
of Agriculture prohibits special purpose vehicles.
(Ord. 25-0624B, passed 6-24-2025)
§ 70.18 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Street-legal special purpose vehicles are prohibited from traveling a
distance greater than 20 miles on a highway displaying centerline pavement
markings.
   (B)   Minitrucks shall not be operated as a street-legal special purpose
vehicle on a highway that has been constructed pursuant to a federal highway
program.
(Ord. 25-0624B, passed 6-24-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits on county roads
   
II.   Permitted roadways for golf carts and all-terrain vehicles
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   The speed limits on the roads in the county shall be as set forth
below.
Road Name Speed Limit in mph
Road Name                   Speed Limit in mph
Black Rock Road             35
Blue Lick Road              25
Boone Road                  35
Brian Street                15
Briar Fork Road             35
Briarwood Circle            15
Briarwood Court             15
Briarwood Drive             15
Buffalo Creek Road          35
Burley Estates Road         25
Calendar Road               35
Camp Branch Road            25
Carlisle Road               55
Caroline Street             15
Cemetery Road               15
Church Street               15
Comanche Trail              15
County Park Drive           10
County Park Loop            10
Crescent Court              15
Culls Road                  35
Dakota Court                15
Dakota Way                  15
Davis Lane                  15
Delaware Circle             15
Delaware Way                15
Donaldson Lane              15
Dripping Springs Church Rd  35
East Prong Locust Road      35
Edward Street               15
English Avenue              15
Floyd Drive                 35
Floyd Street                15
Ford Road                   35
Fox Run                     25
Fox Valley Drive            25
G W Conway Road             15
Garrett Lane                35
Georges Creek Road          25
Ghent-Eagle Road            35
Gilgal Branch Road          25
Greenbriar Drive            15
Greens Bottom North Road    25
Greens Bottom South Road    25
Hampton Road                25
Harbour Lane                15
Harold Clifton Road         25
Hunters Ridge Drive         20
Indian Creek Road           35
Jackson Ridge Road          35
Joanne Road                 15
Joseph Street               25
Kawneer-Hunter Heights Road 45
Kemper Lane                 15
Kendall South Road          25
Ladder Lane                 35
Langsdale Court             15
Lanham Road                 25
Lewis Road                  35
Lock No. 1 Road             25
Marshall Lane               25
Marvin Chapel Road          35
Mojave Trail                15
Montgomery Road             35
Morrison Drive              15
North Kendall Road          25
North Pointe                15
Notch Lick Road             35
Oaks Lane                   15
Old Carlisle Road           25
Old U.S. 227 Road           15
Old U.S. 227 South Road     15
Painter Road                35
Park Drive                  25
Parkside Drive              15
Pate Lane                   25
Perkins Road                15
Pryor Branch Road           25
Purdue Road                 25
R D Kendall Road            15
Raisor Farm Road            35
Riverwood Drive             15
Robert Street               15
Rolling Hills Court         15
Sam Street                  15
Sanders Road                25
Sanders-Sparta Road         25
Sandlin Road                25
Sharon Road                 35
Sheehan Road                25
Skyline Drive               15
Skyview Drive               15
South Cemetery Lane         25
Springmeadow Drive          20
Stafford Ridge Road         35
Stephanus Road              35
Sycamore Road               15
Sycamore Trace              15
Thomas Street               15
Tilley Road                 15
Tom Harris Road             35
Tom Town Road               25
Tuttle Lane                 25
Valleywood Court            20
Vance Road                  35
Vories Road                 35
W. Jay Louden Road          35
West Prong Locust Road      35
Wilson Way                  15
Windy Ridge                 25
Woodlawn Drive              15
Woodrow Wilson Road         35
Wrights Ridge Road          35
 
   (B)   The County Road Supervisor shall post the indicated speed limits as
set forth in division (A) above.
(Ord. 16-0510A, passed 5-10-2016)
SCHEDULE II. PERMITTED ROADWAYS FOR GOLF CARTS AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   The public roadways under the jurisdiction of the county upon which a golf
cart and all-terrain vehicles may be operated are as follows.
Permitted Roadways for Golf Carts and All-Terrain Vehicles
Permitted Roadways for Golf Carts and All-Terrain Vehicles
Black Rock Road
Blue Lick Road
Boone Road
Brian Street Briar Fork Road
Briarwood Circle
Briarwood Court
Briarwood Drive
Buffalo Creek Road
Burley Estates Road
Calendar Road
Camp Branch Road
Carlisle Road
Caroline Street
Cemetery Road
Church Street
Comanche Trail
County Park Drive
County Park Loop
Crescent Court
Culls Road
Dakota Court
Dakota Way
Davis Lane
Delaware Circle
Delaware Way
Donaldson Lane
Dripping Springs Church Road
East Prong Locust Road
Edward Street
English Avenue
Floyd Drive
Floyd Street
Ford Road
Fox Run
Fox Valley Drive
G W Conway Road
Garrett Lane
Georges Creek Road
Ghent Eagle Road
Gilgal Branch Road
Greenbriar Drive
Greens Bottom North Road
Greens Bottom South Road
Hampton Road
Harbour Lane
Harold Clifton Road
Hunters Ridge Drive
Indian Creek Road
Jackson Ridge Road
Joanne Road
Joseph Street
Kemper Lane
Ladder Lane
Lanham Road
Lansdale Court
Lewis Road
Lock No. 1 Road
Marshall Lane
Marvin Chapel Road
Mojave Trail
Montgomery Road
Morrison Drive
North Kendall Road
North Pointe
Notch Lick Road
Oaks Lane
Old Carlisle Road
Old U.S. 227 Road
Old U.S. 227 South Road
Painter Road
Park Drive
Parkside Drive
Pate Lane
Perkins Road
Pryor Branch Road
Purdue Road
R D Kendall Road
Raisor Farm Road
Rendall South Road
Riverwood Drive
Robert Street
Rolling Hills Court
Sam Street
Sanders Road
Sanders-Sparta Road
Sandlin Road
Sharon Road
Sheehan Road
Skyline Drive
Skyview Drive
South Cemetery Lane
Spring Meadow Drive
Stafford Ridge Road
Stephanus Road
Sycamore Road
Sycamore Trace
Thomas Street
Tilley Road
Tom Harris Road
Tom Town Road
Tuttle Lane
Valleywood Court
Vance Road
Vories Road
W. Jay Louden Road
West Prong Locust Road
Wilson Way
Windy Ridge
Woodlawn Drive
Woodrow Wilson Road
Wrights Ridge Road
 
(Ord. 16-0510B, passed 5-10-2016)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   FIRE HAZARDS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
   
90.01   Declaration of nuisances
   
90.02   Creation of nuisances
   
90.03   Abatement process
   
90.04   Lien against property
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DECLARATION OF NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the unincorporated areas of the county, or in
such incorporated areas, which by resolution, request this chapter be enforced
within said incorporated boundary, to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to a public nuisance:
   (A)   (1)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass or the accumulation of
rubbish, filth, refuse, trash, garbage, or any other waste or abandoned
material which endangers the public health, welfare, or safety, or materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent
property. Excessive growth of weeds or grass shall be defined as weeds or grass
eight inches or taller.
      (2)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes,
insects, and other vermin, or otherwise endangers the public health, safety, or
welfare, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or
occupants of adjacent property, or risks blowing into any street, sidewalk, or
property of another, or has a depressing influence upon the property values in
the neighborhood are a public nuisance. The provision regarding excessive
growth of weeds or grass is not intended to apply to property being used for
legitimate agricultural purposes;
   (B)   Permitting conditions to exist in or about a structure which are
dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of occupants of the structure,
the occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of the county as
determined by a certified building inspector or other qualified expert employed
or retained by the county;
   (C)   Permitting any condition to exist upon a property that emits noxious
odors, excessive noise, or lighting which interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment of neighboring properties or public roadways, sidewalks, or
properties;
   (D)   Permitting dangerous trees, shrubs, or other vegetation adjoining all
public roads and private resort roads, and sidewalks to stand in such condition
that it is potentially dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of person
or property upon the roads adjacent thereto, by falling thereon, including the
falling of parts thereof;
   (E)   Permitting dangerous objects adjoining all public roads and private
resort roads or sidewalks, including a stack of objects, to stand in such
condition that it is potentially dangerous or injurious to the health or safety
of person or property upon the roads adjacent thereto, by falling or blowing
thereon, including the falling or blowing of parts thereof;
   (F)   The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely covered cistern,
cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private premises in any
open or unfenced lot or place;
   (G)   The operation of any automobile, vehicle, machinery, or material
recycling establishment or place of business in violation of KRS 177.905 et
seq.;
   (H)   The storage within 200 feet of a the right-of-way line as defined by
Kentucky Revised Statute by the county or city ordinance for a public roadway
or the property line of an adjoining property of:
      (1)   Motor vehicles in an inoperative condition;
      (2)   Motor vehicles unfit for their original intended use; or
      (3)   Motor vehicle parts or scrap material, except on premises
authorized by the commonwealth for such purpose.
         (a)   MOTOR VEHICLE shall be defined to include any vehicle, trailer,
or other vessel initially designed for the conveyance of persons or property
upon private or public roads, highways, or waterways, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, campers, motor homes, recreational vehicles,
boats, or other marine vehicles, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles and
bicycles. Unless otherwise provided, INOPERABLE shall be defined as unable to
move under its own power due to defective or missing parts, and which has
remained in such condition for a period of not less than ten consecutive days.
         (b)   There shall be a presumption that a motor vehicle is disabled
and/or in an inoperative condition if it is not moved for 30 days or more,
provided, however, that this chapter shall not apply to vehicles that are
completely enclosed within a garage or other building, are behind a solid fence
of one color and same material which completely obstructs the view, or are
otherwise out of sight of such public roadway. The fact that a motor vehicle
may have the tags, licenses, and/or insurance necessary for operation shall be
considered irrelevant in determining whether a motor vehicle is disabled, in an
inoperative condition, or otherwise unfit for further use; however, the absence
of such tags, licenses, and/or insurance shall be considered a material fact in
such determination.
         (c)   Farm vehicles and implements shall not be considered motor
vehicles for the purpose of this chapter if they are operable.
         (d)   Boats and other marine vehicles, whether or not motor-powered,
shall be considered motor vehicles for the purpose of this chapter.
         (e)   SCRAP MATERIAL is defined as pieces of or parts of steel, iron,
tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or any alloy thereof, whether covered with
porcelain, wood, stone, plastic, paper, or any other materials whether intact
or in parts which has served its usefulness in its original form and can no
longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   (I)   The storage or maintenance of mobile or manufactured homes which are
abandoned and/or unoccupied, or are not connected to legal sewage disposal
facilities. There shall be presumption that a manufactured or mobile home is
abandoned and/or unoccupied if it is unoccupied for a period of 30 days or
more. “Mobile homes” and “manufactured homes” shall be as defined in KRS
219.320;
   (J)   Permitting “manufactured” or “mobile” homes to exist upon a property,
without proper underpinning constructed of metal, wood, vinyl, stone, or
concrete block, or other material specifically manufactured for manufactured or
mobile home underpinning that fully conceals, the underbelly of said home and
protects same from the elements, for in excess of 30 days said home is
initially placed upon said property; and
   (K)   Permitting any dumpster which is three cubic yards or greater in size
to be located upon a property for in excess of 30 calendar days in a one-year
period, without solid fencing of a uniform color and material enclosing said
dumpster which is opaque and at least six feet in height, so as to completely
shield said dumpster and its contents from view.
(Ord. 2019-0910, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 2024-1112, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.02 CREATION OF NUISANCES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the nuisance
be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created or
contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible or by the exercise of reasonable care
ought to have become aware of it.
(Ord. 2019-0910, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 2024-1112, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 90.03 ABATEMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   This chapter may be enforced by nuisance abatement and/or filing a
complaint in accordance with the County’s Code Enforcement Ordinance, being
Ordinance 2024-1022 in §
35.01 of this code. The county may proceed with either or both procedures.
   (B)   The nuisance abatement process may be initiated by filing of a
nuisance complaint form to be provided by the county to any resident of the
county or real property owner in the county or by the county enforcement
officer, or by citation or criminal complaint initiated and signed by any duly
sworn peace officer of the commonwealth. If the county elects to abate the
nuisance or seek criminal sanctions for the violation. It shall be the duty of
any law enforcement official or other enforcement officer designated by the
county to serve or cause to serve a notice upon the owner or occupant of any
premises on which there is an ordinance and to demand with a written notice
that the violation be corrected within ten calendar days. If the responsible
party fails to abate the nuisance within the allotted ten-day period, the
county may enter the property and abate the nuisance and/or file a criminal
charge in district court for the violation. Pursuant to KRS 381.770, the
property owner shall be afforded a public hearing that must be requested in
writing by the property owner themselves, a copy of which shall be served to
the County Judge/Executive not later than seven working days following the
receipt of notice as set forth above. The County Judge/Executive shall
thereafter fix the time and place for a hearing which shall be held not later
than two calendar weeks thereafter, with notice of said hearing to be
immediately provided to the property owner. The majority of the Fiscal Court
shall constitute a quorum to hear the appeal. The property owner may be present
and shall be heard following presentation to the Fiscal Court of the facts
which necessitate enforcement of this chapter. The public shall also be
entitled to be heard on any matter which may tend to impact the decision of the
Fiscal Court. If, after hearing, a majority of the members of the Fiscal Court
present at the meeting declare in favor of the property owner, such abate the
nuisance. Should the majority of the members present at the meeting decide that
such abatement is necessary, demolition and/or other abatement shall
immediately occur.
(Ord. 2019-0910, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 2024-1112, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.04 LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (A)   The county shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and material used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the responsible officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of
the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to this chapter, and
shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice
to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest
thereafter until paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other
subsequent liens, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may
be enforced by judicial proceedings.
   (B)   Additionally, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been
attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of
the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the
county may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
(Ord. 2019-0910, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 2024-1112, passed 11-12-2024) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined or
incur a civil penalty of not less than $10 and not more than $500 for each
offense, and each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2019-0910, passed 9-10-2019; Ord. 2024-1112, passed 11-12-2024)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE HAZARDS
Section
   
91.01   Open burning during times of fire hazard
§ 91.01 OPEN BURNING DURING TIMES OF FIRE HAZARD.
   (A)   Whenever the Division of Forestry of the commonwealth notifies the
county that an extraordinary fire hazard exists in the county, the County
Judge/Executive may proclaim such condition to exist in the county.
   (B)   No person shall, when a proclamation provided for in division (A)
above has been issued, light or maintain an open fire at any location in the
county while the proclamation is in effect. Any person violating this section
shall be subject to the penalty hereinafter provided. Each day shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (C)   Notice of the proclamation provided for in division (A) above shall be
published in the newspaper of largest bona fide circulation in the county and
in such other fashion as the County Judge/Executive may, in his or her
discretion, direct. However, the proclamation shall be effective upon its
signing.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 11-18-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
92.01   Reclaiming dog
   
92.02   Failure to reclaim
   
92.03   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
**** DOGS ****
§ 92.01 RECLAIMING DOG.
   The owner of a dog impounded by the Dog Warden may reclaim the dog by paying
an impoundment fee of $15, $5 for each day the dog has been impounded, and a
license fee if the dog is not currently licensed. Double fees shall be charged
for reclaiming a dog for subsequent impoundments occurring within 12 months of
a previous impoundment.
(Ord. passed 5- -2017)
§ 92.02 FAILURE TO RECLAIM.
   Any dog not reclaimed by its owner within seven days of impoundment shall
become the property of the local government authority and may be placed for
adoption in a suitable home or humanely euthanized. Any person adopting an
impounded dog shall pay all fees which are required of an owner reclaiming a
dog. In addition to these requirements, any person adopting a dog shall provide
proof to the County Judge/Executive’s office and the Animal Shelter Director
that the dog has been neutered or spayed within 14 days of the adoption or
return the dog to the dog pound. Any person adopting a dog from the County
Animal Shelter shall be required to enter into a written agreement
acknowledging this obligation. In the event that the dog to be adopted is not
of sufficient age to be spayed or neutered at the time of adoption, the County
Animal Shelter Director shall set forth in the written agreement with the
adoptive party the latest date by which proof of alteration of the animal shall
be provided to the County Animal Shelter and/or the dog is to be returned.
(Ord. passed 5- -2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Animal Shelter Director and the County Dog Warden, under the
direction of the County Animal Shelter Director, shall be responsible for the
enforcement of the provisions of KRS Chapter 258 as it relates to dogs in the
county.
(Ord. passed 5- -2017)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any such person not providing such proof or not returning the dog to
the pound within 14 days of adoption, as required in §
92.02, shall be subject to a civil penalty fine of up to $200, in addition to
the return of the dog, with said civil penalty be recoverable by the Fiscal
Court as a debt.
(Ord. passed 5- -2017)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Removal of vehicles
   
93.02   Parking on private property
   
93.03   Removal from private premises
   
93.04   Impoundment
   
93.05   Sale of unclaimed vehicle
   
93.06   Prerequisite to release of vehicle
   
93.07   Contract for towing and storage
§ 93.01 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Any abandoned vehicle may, after failure of the owner to comply with the
notice of removal, be towed away by authorization of officers of the County
Sheriff’s Department and the cost of towing and any storage charges which may
accrue must be paid by the owner of the vehicle before the vehicle is released
from the custody of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Any person who shall park any motor vehicle in any residential driveway or
upon any private yard or upon any private or commercial parking lot which is
clearly marked as such shall be prima facie guilty of trespassing, but proof of
permission by the owner shall be a defense, with the burden being on the person
to prove consent.
(Prior Code, § 93.02)
§ 93.03 REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The motor vehicle of any person so trespassing may be removed from the
private premises by the owner, lessee, or person in control thereof upon
notification to the County Sheriff’s Department of his or her intention to
remove the vehicle together with the license number and information as to the
place to which the vehicle is being removed.
   (B)   The owner of the illegally parked vehicle shall be responsible for all
towing and storage charges.
(Prior Code, § 93.03)
§ 93.04 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any motor vehicle used in the commission of a public offense or any motor
vehicle illegally parked or left standing on the public streets or private
property within the county in violation of any law or ordinance may be
impounded, towed away, and stored at the expense of the owner or operator
thereof by order of the County Sheriff’s Department or any officer thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.04)
§ 93.05 SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any motor vehicle which is unclaimed for 90 days may be sold, the proceeds
applied first to the towing and storage charges and the balance of the proceeds
if any shall be paid into the general fund of the county.
(Prior Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 PREREQUISITE TO RELEASE OF VEHICLE.
   No impounded vehicle shall be released to the owner or operator thereof,
except upon payment of towing and/or storage charges and upon the issuance of a
written release of the County Sheriff’s Department.
(Prior Code, § 93.06)
§ 93.07 CONTRACT FOR TOWING AND STORAGE.
   All towing, impounding, and storage which shall be required hereunder by the
County Sheriff’s Department shall be handled by the duly authorized grantee of
a contract to be entered into with the county after duly advertised bids on an
annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 93.07)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
112.   FLEA MARKETS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Temporary sale and/or display event
Occupational Licenses
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   License application required
   
110.17   Occupational license tax payment required
   
110.18   Apportionment
   
110.19   Employees to withhold
   
110.20   Returns required
   
110.21   Extensions
   
110.22   Refunds
   
110.23   Federal audit provisions
   
110.24   Administrative provisions
   
110.25   Information to remain confidential
   
110.26   Use of occupational license tax
Alcoholic Beverages
   
110.40   Licenses issued
   
110.41   Fee imposed
   
110.42   Subject to state law
   
110.43   Sunday sales
 
   
110.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.01 TEMPORARY SALE AND/OR DISPLAY EVENT.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle dealer licensed to sell new motor vehicles within
the county and having its principle place of business in the county may conduct
a motor vehicle temporary sale and/or display event within the county pursuant
to KRS 190.030.
   (B)   No dealer shall conduct more than four temporary sales and/or display
events each calendar year and the duration of each event shall not exceed five
successive days.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 07-0918, passed 9-18-2007)
**** OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES ****
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include a Board of Trade, Chambers of Commerce, trade associations, or unions,
or other associations performing services usually performed by trade
associations or unions as recognized by the Internal Revenue Sendee. BUSINESS
shall not include funds, foundations, corporations, or associations organized
and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational, civic, or fraternal purposes, where no part
of the earnings, incomes, or receipts of such unit, group, or association,
insures to the benefit of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business, development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows.
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under the I.R.C.
§§ 401(a), 40l(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to,
I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132;
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   COUNTY. Carroll County, Kentucky
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders sendees to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. As defined in I.R.C. § 3401(d).
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. As defined in I.R.C. § 7701(a)(24).
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2003, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2003, that would
otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as determined in I.R.C. § 61 minus all the
deductions from gross income allowed by I.R.C. Chapter 1, and adjusted as
follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid, or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under I.R.C. § 172;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the State Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
county. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the county.
   SALES REVENUE. The county’s from the sale, lease, or rental of goods,
services, or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any county or city with the authority to levy net profits or
occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue both within and without the county, the term herein means NET PROFIT as
defined above, and as apportioned under §
110.18.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.16 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person or business entity engaged in any trade, occupation, or
profession, or other activity for profit or anyone required to file a return
under this subchapter in the county shall be required to complete and execute
the questionnaire prescribed by the Occupational Tax Office. Each person shall
be required to complete a separate questionnaire for each separate business
before the commencement of business or in the event of a status change, other
than change of address. Licensees are required to notify the Occupational Tax
Office of changes of address, or the cessation of business activity, and of
other changes which render inaccurate the information supplied in the completed
questionnaire.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.17 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (E) below, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the State Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the county an
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the county. The occupational license tax shall be measured by 1.5% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the county for work
done or services performed or rendered in the county by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee; provided however, that the maximum annual
license tax for each employee shall be $250,000; and
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the county by a resident
or nonresident business entity; provided, however, that the maximum annual
license tax for each business entity shall be $250,000.
   (B)   All partnerships, corporations, and all other entities where income is
passed through to the owners are subject to this subchapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this subchapter is assessed against income before it is
passed through these entities to the owners.
   (C)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the county during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the county.
   (D)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this subchapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by
the federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting
required for federal income tax purposes.
   (E)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking, and title business organized and doing business in the state,
any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the State National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies, and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or special
elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the State Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the county;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages;
      (6)   Insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the commonwealth except as provided in KRS 91A.080; and
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS §§ 154.20-250 through 154.20-284 to the extent any
profits, earnings, or distributions, would not be taxable to an individual
investor.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.18 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profit shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two;
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below; and
      (3)   For the purposes of divisions (A) through (D) of this section, the
business entity shall file an apportionment form provided by the Occupational
Tax Office.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the county during the tax period by the business
entity for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation
paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the county based on the time the
individual’s service is performed within the county.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the county during the tax period, and
the denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period. The sales, lease, or rental of tangible
personal property is in the county if:
      (1)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser other than the
United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the county
regardless of the F.O.B. point or other conditions of the sale;
      (2)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse, factory,
or other place of storage in the county and the purchaser is the United States
government. Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the county based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the county and
the denominator of which is the total time, spent performing that income-
producing activity; and/or
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the county, the
business entity may petition the county or the county may require, in respect
to all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the county; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the county, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the county.
The license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the county bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the county to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.19 EMPLOYEES TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any tax imposed
against the compensation by the county. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
county in accordance with §
110.17.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the county, and pay to the county, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the county.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the county any sums
required by this subchapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the county for any sum or sums withheld or required to
be withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The county shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the county sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the county, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the county. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
county.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the county a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the county, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the county during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The President, Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this subchapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid to one or
more employees of any business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the county, nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office, shall discharge that liability of any person; provided
that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each or every person
holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became obligated.
No person shall be personally and individually liable under this division (H)
who had no authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over any tax
imposed by this subchapter at the time that the taxes imposed by this
subchapter become or became due.
   (I)   Every employee receiving compensation in the county subject to the tax
imposed in §
110.17 shall be personally liable for the tax notwithstanding the provisions of
divisions (G) and (H) above. In all cases where the employer does not withhold
the tax levied under this subchapter from the employee, such employee or
employees shall be responsible for filing with the county each quarter in the
same manner as if they were the employer. If an employer fails to or is not
required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee, it shall become the duty
of the employee to file with the county. The only employer that is not required
to withhold, report, and pay the occupational license tax is the federal
government including the United States Postal Service. The payment required to
be made by an employee, can be made quarterly, for the periods ending March 31,
June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year, or at any time the
employee wishes to make an estimated payment for the year in which wages are
earned. All license fees must be received by April 15 for the preceding
calendar year, together with a copy of the employee’s W-2 form. Employers not
required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee must annually during the
month of January of each year, make a return to the Occupational Tax
Administrator, in which is set forth the name and Social Security number of
each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar year, giving the
amount of salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensation earned during
such preceding year by each such employee. This list shall include all current
full-time employees, part-time employees, temporary employees, and terminated
employees whether the termination was voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.20 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
county.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the county. Whenever, in the opinion of
the county, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the county may compel the
business entity to produce for inspection a copy of any statements and
schedules in support thereof that have not been previously filed. The county
may also require copies of reports of adjustments made by the federal
government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this subchapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the county from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the county deems it necessary, the county may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the county deems sufficient
to determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The county may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the
taxable income of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of
the business entity, or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the county at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of persons who make Federal Form
1099 “non-employee compensation” payments to natural persons other than
employees for services performed within the county, to maintain records of such
payments and to report such payments to the county. Said payments must be
reported on by remitting Federal Form 1099 by February 28 of the year following
the close of the calendar year in which the non-employee compensation was paid.
If a business entity or person is not required to remit Federal Form 1099 to
the IRS, including, but not limited to, payments less than $600, they are still
liable to remit the equivalent information to the county.
      (2)   The information required to be reported by said licensee shall
include:
         (a)   Payer’s name, address, Social Security, and/or federal
identification number;
         (b)   Recipient’s name and address;
         (c)   Recipient’s Social Security and/or federal identification
number; and
         (d)   Amount of non-employee compensation paid in the calendar year.
Amount of non-employee compensation earned in the county for the calendar year.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.21 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The county may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the county and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time
the tax was due until the return is actually filed arid the tax paid to the
county. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.22 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.19, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer only to the extent
that the amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under §
110.19 by the employer.
   (B)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
county from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was
made, no refund or credit shall be allowed.
   (C)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the county, based on time spent outside the county, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this county, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the county, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim, and the county may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the county and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the county prior to approval of
the refund.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.23 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the county may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the county is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the county within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly to
adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A)(3), or six months from the date the county receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later. The times provided in this division (A)(3) may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the county. For the purposes of this division
(A)(3), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the
return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for
filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed
by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The county may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.24 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this subchapter.
   (B)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may be
refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the county, whichever is
the later, except that:
      (1)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.23 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
county, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly; and
      (2)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to adjustments
resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a claim for
refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or six
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later. For the
purposes of this division (B) and division (C) below, a return filed before the
last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall be considered as filed
on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this subchapter is vested exclusively in the county.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.25 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of the county shall intentionally and
without authorization, inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the county or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the county from testifying in any court, or from introducing as
evidence returns or reports filed with the county, in an action for violation
of the county tax laws or in any action challenging the county laws.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of
Revenue of the commonwealth or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the county if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the commonwealth grants to the county the
reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the State
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished. Provided, further, that the county may publish statistics based
on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net
profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the county is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 110.26 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   The proceeds from the occupational license tax shall be part of the general
funds of the county.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
**** ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ****
§ 110.40 LICENSES ISSUED.
   Licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on
the premises within the unincorporated areas of the county is hereby authorized
under KRS 242.485 to be issued only to hotels, motels, or inns containing not
less than 50 sleeping units and having dining facilities for not less than 100
persons or bona fide restaurants open to the general public having dining
facilities for not less than 100 persons.
(Prior Code, § 110.40) (Ord. 99-0604, passed 6-4-1999)
§ 110.41 FEE IMPOSED.
   A license fee is hereby imposed for such licenses as may be issued hereunder
in such maximum amount as provided for in KRS 243.070 or such other statute or
regulation as may apply hereto.
(Prior Code, § 110.41) (Ord. 99-0604, passed 6-4-1999)
§ 110.42 SUBJECT TO STATE LAW.
   The licenses issued hereunder shall be subject to all state laws and
regulations as well as such additional administrative regulations as the Fiscal
Court may issue for the enforcement or administration of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.42) (Ord. 99-0604, passed 6-4-1999)
§ 110.43 SUNDAY SALES.
   Any lawfully permitted establishment, to include, but not be limited to,
small farm wineries, authorized to sell for retail purchase or by the drink,
malt beverages, wine, or distilled spirits may sell said beverages between the
hours of 1:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Sundays. Said establishments must comply
with all other laws and regulations established by the county, the commonwealth
of the state, and the United States of America.
(Ord. 2020-0211, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject to a
penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof
if the business entity:
      (1)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the county; or
      (2)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or before
the due date prescribed for payment. The total penalty levied pursuant to this
division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty
shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the date prescribed under §
110.19 may be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (C) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the county. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (E)   Every tax imposed by §§
110.15 through
110.26, and all increases, interest, and penalties thereon, shall become, from
the time the tax is due and payable, a personal debt of the taxpayer to the
county.
   (F)   The county may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due
under §
110.17 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in §
110.17(A) through (D) by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
To the extent authorized by law, the county shall be entitled to recover all
court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any
provision of §§
110.15 through
110.26.
   (G)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any person,
business entity, or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under §§
110.15 through
110.26 of a preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under §§
110.15 through
110.26 of a return, affidavit, claim, or other document, which is fraudulent or
is false as to any material matter, whether or not the falsity or fraud is with
the knowledge or consent of the person authorized or required to present the
return, affidavit, claim, or document, shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
   (I)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the county and required to be filed
with the county by the provisions of §§
110.15 through
110.26, or by the rules of the county or by written request for information to
the business entity by the county.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.25 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
   (K)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.25 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 2023-0912, passed 9-12-2023)
CHAPTER 111: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Findings
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Classification
   
111.05   License required
   
111.06   Issuance of license
   
111.07   Fees
   
111.08   Inspections
   
111.09   Expiration of license
   
111.10   Suspension
   
111.11   Revocation
   
111.12   Transfer of license
   
111.13   Location of businesses
   
111.14   Public nudity
   
111.15   Children in sexually oriented businesses
   
111.16   Hours of operation
   
111.17   Exemptions
   
111.18   Injunction
   
111.19   Territorial application
Specific Businesses and Prohibitions
   
111.30   Adult motels
   
111.31   Exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos, or live entertainment
in viewing rooms
   
111.32   Escort agencies
   
111.33   Nude model studios
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the county, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the county. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of
any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly,
it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by
adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to
deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of
this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.02 FINDINGS.
   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult uses on
the community presented in hearings and in reports made available to the Fiscal
Court, and on findings incorporated in cases of City of Renton v. Playtime
Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 42 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S.
50 (1976), and Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), and on
studies in other communities including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona;
Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas;
Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier, California;
Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio;
and Beaumont, Texas; and also on findings from the “Report of the Attorney
General’s Working Group On the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses (June
6, 1989, State of Minnesota),” the Fiscal Court finds:
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and
unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of the
establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners of
these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises;
   (B)   Communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring in
sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, venereal disease
and human immunodeficiency virus infection (AIDS-HIV);
   (C)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test in the
state;
   (D)   The number of cases of gonorrhea and other sexually transmitted
diseases in the United States reported annually remains at a high level;
   (E)   The surgeon general of the United States in this report of October 22,
1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn;
   (F)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection, as
well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts;
   (G)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the facilities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facility to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities;
   (H)   The findings noted above raise substantial governmental concerns;
   (I)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics which
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns;
   (J)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place
the burden of the reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators of the
sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will place a
heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the sexually
oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety, and
welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the county. It
is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and control of
the premises and activities occurring therein;
   (K)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting on
premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activities occurring in adult
theaters;
   (L)   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep
information regarding current employees and certain past employees will help
reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments;
   (M)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases;
   (N)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity;
   (O)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been convicted
of a sexually related crime leads to the rational assumption that the applicant
may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter;
   (P)   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult uses for
a period of years serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads to
the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases; and
   (Q)   The general welfare, health, morals, and safety of the citizens of the
county will be promoted by the enhancement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated, slug-operated, or any form of consideration, or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, video or laser disc players, or other image-producing devices are
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by the
depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be categorized as ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical area or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a visible sign from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or
otherwise and whether or not the person is paid salary, wage, or other
compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform striptease for another person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to a sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   MISDEMEANOR. A criminal offense punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 365 days or both. The term DEFENSE is
synonymous with MISDEMEANOR.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays specified anatomical areas and is provided to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state or a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by public
taxation; a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the premises
at any one time.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE or IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below the horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following unlawful activity:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;
sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography;
public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaging in
organized criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling;
or distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of the states or countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of the
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Excretory functions as part of or in connections with any of the
activities set forth hereinabove.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25% as the floor areas exist
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the county pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the county pursuant to this chapter;
and/or
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to law or ordinance.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
county.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as to enable the county to determine
whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, the person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for a sexually oriented business license
shall contain the following information and shall be accompanied by the
following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A limited liability company, the company shall state its
complete name, the names of all members and managers, the name and address of
the registered agent for service of process, a copy of its articles of
organization, and a copy of the operating agreement, if any; and
         (d)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, a
copy of its articles of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity
of all officers, directors, and principal stockholders, and the name and
address of the registered agent for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state:
         (a)   The sexually oriented business’s fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity as defined in this chapter,
and, if so, the specified criminal activity involved, the date, place, and
jurisdiction of each;
      (4)   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended, or revoked,
including the name and location of the sexually oriented business for which the
permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the date of the denial,
suspension, or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person residing with
the applicant has been a partner in a partnership, a member, or manager in a
limited liability company, or an officer, director, or principal stockholder of
a corporation that is licensed under this chapter whose license has been
previously denied, suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of
the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or
revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension, or revocation;
      (5)   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other license under this chapter or other similar sexually oriented
business ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses;
      (6)   The single classification of license for which the applicant is
filing;
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any;
      (8)   The applicant’s mailing address and residential address;
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s);
      (10)   The applicant’s driver’s license number, Social Security number,
and his or her state or federal issued tax identification number;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches;
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented businesses
within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of an
established religious institution/synagogue, school, or public park or
recreation area within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes
of this section, a use shall be considered existing and established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted; and
      (13)   If an applicant wished to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than 150 square feet of floor space, films, video
cassettes, other video reproductions, or live entertainment which depict
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the applicant
shall comply with the application requirements set forth in §
111.31.
   (F)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
county the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other name (including stage names) or
aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair, and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   Date, issuing state, and number of driver’s permit or other
identification card information;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
   (G)   Attached to the application form for a sexually oriented business
employee license as provided above, shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Sheriff’s
Department (Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.);
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate,
in this or any other county, city, state, or country has ever had a license,
permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended, or had
any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended
(In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, state the name,
the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the
reason for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any order of
denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the application.); and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this chapter and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place, and jurisdiction of each.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of the application for a sexually oriented business
employee license, the county shall issue a temporary license to the applicant.
The application shall then be referred to the appropriate county offices for an
investigation to be made on the information as is contained on the application.
The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the date the
completed application is filed. After the investigation, the county shall issue
a license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one
or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form; or has failed to pay the
required fee;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter;
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the county within two years of the date of the current application;
and
      (6)   If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the
temporary license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void.
Denial, suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this division
(A) shall be subject to appeal as set forth in §
111.11.
   (B)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to annual
renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the
county that the applicant has not been convicted of any specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter or committed any act during the existence
of the previous license, which would be grounds to deny the initial license
application. The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the
fee as set forth in §
111.07.
   (C)   Within 30 days after the request of a completed sexually oriented
business application, the county shall approve or deny the issuance of a
license to an applicant. The county shall approve the issuance of a license to
an applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that
one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or a person with whom applicant is residing is overdue
in payment to the county of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against
or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the county to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding 12 months or whose license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a specified criminal activity defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, and the Building
Inspector as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
      (7)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; and
      (8)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address of
the sexually oriented business, and the classification for which the license is
issued pursuant to §
111.04. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they may be easily read at
any time.
   (E)   The Health Department, Fire Department, and the Building Inspector
shall complete their certification that the premises are in compliance or not
in compliance within 20 days of receipt of the application by the county.
   (F)   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification as found in §
111.04. (Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.07 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license (whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied
by a $500 non-refundable application and investigation fee.
   (B)   In addition to the application and investigation fee required above,
every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or renewal)
shall pay to the county an annual non-refundable license fee of $1,000 within
30 days of license issuance or renewal.
   (C)   Every application for a sexually oriented business employee license
(whether for a new license or for renewal of an existing license) shall be
accompanied by an annual $250 non-refundable application, investigation, and
license fee.
   (D)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the office of
the County Judge/Executive.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.08 INSPECTIONS.
   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, or other county departments,
offices, or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business
for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied
or open for business. A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his
or her agent or employee commits a misdemeanor if he or she refuses to permit
such lawful inspection of the premises at any time it is open for business.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
111.05. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be effected.
   (B)   (1)   When the county denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall
not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
      (2)   If subsequent to denial, the county finds that the basis for denial
of the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be
granted a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became
final.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.10 SUSPENSION.
   The county shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days if it
determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter; and
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.11 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The county shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
111.10 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The county shall revoke a license if it determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or safe of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   Except in the case of an adult motel, a licensee has knowingly
allowed any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or other sex act to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the county or state for any
taxes or fees past due.
   (C)   When the county revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the county finds that the basis for the revocation
has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (D)   (1) After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative action in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The filing of an action in court contesting the action of the
county with respect to a license shall stay the action of the county and the
status quo relative to the matter contested shall be preserved during the
pendency of the action.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the county to timely provide the court the
record of pertinent proceedings conducted before it.
(Prior Code, § 111.11) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Prior Code, § 111.12) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.13 LOCATION OF BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergarten,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges and
universities; SCHOOL includes the school grounds, but does not include
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school;
      (3)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas, or other similar
public land within the county which is under the control, operation, or
management of the county park and recreation authorities;
      (4)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use;
      (5)   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment; or
      (6)   A licensed premises, licensed pursuant to the alcoholic beverage
control regulations of the state.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (C)   A person commits a misdemeanor if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   (D)   For the purpose of division (A) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a use listed in division (A) above. Presence of a city,
county, or other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant for
purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this section.
   (E)   For purposes of division (B) above, the distance between any two
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to the intervening structures or objects or political boundaries, from
the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   (F)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this chapter that is in violation of divisions (A) through (E) above
shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be permitted to
continue for a period not to exceed one year, unless sooner terminated for any
reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. The
nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended, or altered
except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If two or more sexually
oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise in a
permissible location, the sexually oriented business which was first
established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later established business(es) is/are nonconforming.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a use listed in division
(A) above within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business. This provision
applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply when an
application for a license is submitted after a license has been expired or been
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 111.13) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.14 PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly and
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or
depicts specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for a person who knowingly or intentionally
in a sexually oriented business appears in a semi-nude condition unless the
person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten feet from any
patron or customer and on a stage at least two feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any employee, while semi-nude in a
sexually oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a misdemeanor for an employee, while semi-nude, to touch a
customer or the clothing of a customer.
(Prior Code, § 111.14) (Ord, 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.15 CHILDREN IN SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   A person commits a misdemeanor if the person knowingly allows a person under
the age of 18 years on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 111.15) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 111.16) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution hereunder that a person appearing in a state
of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state, a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (C)   In a structure:
      (1)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
      (2)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; or
      (3)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(Prior Code, § 111.17) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
§ 111.18 INJUNCTION.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business without a valid license or in violation of §
111.13 is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal
violations.
   (B)   Each day a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate
offense or violation.
(Prior Code, § 111.18) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.19 TERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to and within the entirety of the
unincorporated area of the county.
(Prior Code, § 111.19) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000)
**** SPECIFIC BUSINESSES AND PROHIBITIONS ****
§ 111.30 ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption
that the establishment is an ADULT MOTEL as that term is defined in this
chapter.
   (B)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented business license, he or she rents or sub-rents a
sleeping room to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is
rented, he or she rents or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUB-RENT
mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Prior Code, § 111.30) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.31 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS, OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
IN VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, live entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The county may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the county.
      (4)   It is the duty of the licensee of the premises to ensure that at
least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station
at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   (a)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.
         (b)   If the premises has two or more manager’s stations designated,
then the interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron
is permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s
stations. The view required in this division must be by direct line of sight
from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the view area
specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials and, at all
times, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at a time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 5.0 foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow openings of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The licensee shall, during each business day, regularly inspect
the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or holes
exist.
      (13)   The licensee shall cause all floor coverings in viewing booths to
be non-porous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The licensee shall cause all wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in
viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by, non-porous,
easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board, or other porous
material shall be used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) above
commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Prior Code, § 111.31) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.32 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 111.32) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.33 NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if the person
appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model
studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if the person
under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or visible to any
other person.
   (C)   A person commits a misdemeanor offense if the person appears in a
state of nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in
an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.33) (Ord. 082900, passed 8-29-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: FLEA MARKETS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Records to be kept by licensee
   
112.04   Secondhand stores and public market excepted
   
112.05   More than one market
   
112.06   Camping prohibited
   
112.07   Purchases from children regulated
   
112.08   Customer parking
   
112.09   Sanitary facilities and food service
   
112.10   Zones
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLEA MARKET. A market place, indoors or out of doors, where new or used
personal property, merchandise, or items of all kinds are displayed, offered
for sale, sold, or exchanged from individual locations, including, but not
limited to, spaces, lots, booths, vehicles, or other areas, with each location
being operated independently from other locations.
   FLEA MARKET OPERATOR. The owner or proprietor of a flea market.
   FLEA MARKET SELLER. A person, firm, or corporation selling items or offering
items for sale at a flea market.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate the business of renting space
or allocating space to flea market sellers without first obtaining a license
therefor. Applications for licenses shall, be made to the county, on forms to
be provided by the county. Only one license shall be required for each flea
market and the individual flea market sellers shall not be required to obtain a
license under this section. The fee for the license shall be $20 per year.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY LICENSEE.
   Each person required by this chapter to obtain a license shall keep accurate
records of the names and addresses of each flea market seller, together with a
brief description of the type or types of merchandise offered for sale by that
seller.
(Prior Code, § 112.03)
§ 112.04 SECONDHAND STORES AND PUBLIC MARKET EXCEPTED.
   No person, firm, or corporation having a license as a secondhand store or
permit for public market shall be required to obtain a license under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.04)
§ 112.05 MORE THAN ONE MARKET.
   Any person, firm, or corporation renting or allocating space to flea market
sellers in more than one place of business shall be required to obtain a
license for each place of business; provided that, one license shall be
adequate for locations that are on the same lot, adjacent lots, or lots
separated only by an alley.
(Prior Code, § 112.05)
§ 112.06 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   Temporary or overnight camping, lodging, or staying by flea market sellers
or customers is prohibited unless accommodations are provided therefor,
pursuant to the standards for travel trailer parks.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PURCHASES FROM CHILDREN REGULATED.
   No flea market seller shall purchase any personal property, item,
merchandise, used household item, antique, or used article whatsoever from any
person under the age of 18 years, unless the person is accompanied by the
person’s parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 CUSTOMER PARKING.
   Each applicant for a flea market license shall furnish the county with
evidence of not fewer than two off-street parking spaces to accommodate each
flea market seller’s customers in addition to the normal on-street parking
capability available in street frontage of the building or open space used in
connection with the flea market.
(Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 112.09 SANITARY FACILITIES AND FOOD SERVICE.
   Each applicant for a flea market license shall provide the county with a
certificate permit or other approval from the Environmental Improvement
Division evidencing the availability of restroom facilities and, in addition,
potable water and hand-washing facilities provided by the applicant if food
service of any kind is to be provided in the flea market area or facility.
(Prior Code, § 112.09)
§ 112.10 ZONES.
   License for flea markets may be approved only for areas zoned rural,
commercial, or industrial.
(Prior Code, § 112.10)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not more than $300 for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Loitering
   
130.02   Curfew
   
130.03   Tobacco products
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 LOITERING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOITER. To stand, sit, idle about, move aimlessly about, or remain, so as
to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles
thereon, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.
      NEAR AND ABOUT THE COUNTY COURTHOUSE. The area of ground adjacent to the
County Courthouse, and between the Courthouse and the sidewalks bordering the
Courthouse on the north, south, and west, including the sidewalks; and shall
also include the steps, porches, and all other exterior parts of the
Courthouse; and shall also include that area on the east side of the Courthouse
between the Courthouse, and the west right of way line of Fifth Street. The
Courthouse is located within the corporate limits of the City of Carrollton in
the county on the Courthouse square which is bordered by Fifth Street, Main
Street, Court Street, and Highland Avenue.
      PARK A VEHICLE. To stop a vehicle and to leave it standing, whether or
not any motor of the vehicle is running and whether or not the vehicle is
occupied.
      VEHICLE. The same meaning as defined in KRS 189.010(19) and shall also
include and mean road rollers, road graders, farm tractors, construction
equipment, and any other apparatus capable of movement on the highway.
      WEST RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE OF FIFTH STREET. The curb line of the sidewalk on
the west side of Fifth Street, between Highland Avenue and Main Street, as it
actually exists or, in the case of the parking area on the east side of the
County Courthouse, as connected by a straight line.
   (B)   No person shall loiter near and about the County Courthouse between
the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the next morning, local prevailing time.
No person shall park a vehicle in the parking area located on the east side of
the County Courthouse, which is between the County Courthouse and the west
right-of-way line of Fifth Street, between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
the next morning, local prevailing time.
   (C)   The prohibitions of division (B) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any person who is actually traversing the sidewalks near and about
the County Courthouse for the purpose of going from one place to another,
neither of which places are near and about the County Courthouse;
      (2)   Any person coming near and about the County Courthouse to lawfully
enter the Courthouse (for example, without limitation, to attend a meeting
being held lawfully in the Courthouse); and
      (3)   Any person coming near and about the County Courthouse during the
time the County Tobacco Festival is being conducted on and about the Courthouse
square or during the time of any other festival, meeting or function is being
conducted on the Courthouse square with the approval of the Fiscal Court or the
Judge/Executive; provided, however, that this exception shall apply only during
the actual hours the festival, meeting, or function is actually being
conducted.
   (D)   Unless flight by the person or other circumstances makes it
impractical, a police officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under
this section, afford the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would
otherwise be warranted, by requesting the person to identify himself or herself
and to explain his or her presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of
an offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person
suspected of being a loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably
appears that the delay in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant
would result in the suspect’s escape.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. passed 11-11-1981) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to prevent. It requires actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the minor violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonably prudent parent or guardian
should have known the minor was violating this section.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or as may be otherwise phrased,
any person of the age of 17 or under.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
         (d)   As a person whom legal custody has been given by order of the
Court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, tarry, linger, congregate, move about, wander,
stroll, or stay unnecessarily upon or in any public assembly, building, place,
street, or highway.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway
within the county at night during the following periods:
         (a)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (b)   1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Sunday;
         (c)   11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday;
         (d)   11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday;
         (e)   11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday;
         (f)   11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday; and
         (g)   11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the county under circumstances
not constituting an exception as enumerated in division (C) below during the
time periods contained in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the county during the
nocturnal hours provided for in division (B)(1) above shall not be considered
in violation of this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
the minor;
      (3)   When exercising first amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly; provided that, written notice signed by the minor
and countersigned by a parent is in the possession of the minor specifying
when, where, and in what manner the minor will be exercising the First
Amendment rights;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after the minor’s parent
has communicated to the Division of Police the facts establishing the
reasonable necessity;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk contiguous to the place where the
minor resides, or on the sidewalk contiguous to a next-door neighbor who has
not communicated an objection to a police officer or the Division of Police;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of, a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association; provided that, justification indicating the place and
time of termination of the event can be given to any investigating officer or
the Division of Police;
      (7)   (a)   When authorized by regulation issued by the County Judge/
Executive in cases of reasonable necessity involving more minors than may
reasonably be dealt with on an individual basis (The regulation should be
issued sufficiently in advance to permit publicity through news media and
through other agencies such as the schools.
         (b)   The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use
of the public assembly, building, place, street, or highway permitted, and the
period of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that the regulation is
reasonably necessary. The County Judge/Executive shall notify the Division of
Police of the information.);
      (8)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the
state authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
      (9)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver;
      (10)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the county for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the
county, including all minors that may also be within the vehicle; and
      (11)   When the minor is married in accordance with law or had disability
of nonage removed by a Court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   (1)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway whose parent
is believed to be in violation of division (B) above may stop and question the
minor and request the information as his or her name and age and the name and
address of his or her name and age and the name and address of his or her
parent, guardian, or person having legal custody.
      (2)   If the police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe
that a curfew violation has occurred, the police officer may obtain from the
minor the information necessary to issue a citation to the minor’s parent,
guardian, or person having legal custody.
      (3)   Any minor found in violation of division (B) above shall be:
         (a)   Directed to proceed immediately to his or her home; or
         (b)   Under the authority of KRS 630.030, may be taken into custody by
any peace officer:
            1.   Pursuant to an order of the Court for failure to appear before
the Court for a previous status offense; or
            2.   If there are reasonable grounds to believe that the child has
been a habitual runaway from his or her parent or person exercising custodial
control or supervision of the child.
      (4)   With permission of the minor’s parent, may be returned by the
police officer to the parent.
      (5)   Permission to return a minor subsequent to a violation of any
section of division (B) above may be given telephonically to the police officer
by a minor’s parent. A parent may also grant prior permission to the Sheriff’s
Department to return that parent’s minor child or children to the parent, in
the event the minor child or children are found in violation of division (B)
above, by providing written authorization on a form to be provided by the
Sheriff’s Department. The Sheriff’s Department shall endeavor to make the
authorization forms available to all parents residing in the county.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   All buildings, grounds, and vehicles owned and maintained by the county and/
or the Fiscal Court, except for the County Detention Center, shall be a
tobacco-free environment, and any use of tobacco products inside any building,
upon any premises, and inside any vehicle, owned or maintained by the county or
the Fiscal Court, except for the County Detention Center, is prohibited, unless
in an outside location as designated by the Judge Executive. Tobacco products
shall include any product containing tobacco or used to simulate tobacco
consumption, to include, but not be limited to, e-cigarettes and/or vaping
devices.
(Ord. 2018-0911, passed 9-11-2018) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.01 shall be fined not more than $250 or confined in jail for not more than
90 days, or both.
      (2)   Any parent, guardian, or person having legal custody of a minor
allowing a minor to violate §
130.02 shall be subject to a fine of no more than $500.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
130.03 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $250 for each offense.
Violation of this §
130.03 by any employee of the Fiscal Court shall be grounds for disciplinary
action in accordance with the “Fiscal Court Employee Policies and Procedures.”
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. passed 11-11-1981; Ord. 2018-0911, passed 9-11-
2018)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
151.   FLOODS
      
152.   DILAPIDATED HOUSING
CHAPTER 150: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
150.01   Establishment; geographical area
   
150.02   Creation and establishment
   
150.03   Duties and responsibilities
   
150.04   County Board of Adjustment
§ 150.01 ESTABLISHMENT; GEOGRAPHICAL AREA.
   The entire geographical area of the county and of the City of Carrollton,
Ghent, Sanders, and Worthville is hereby established as a joint planning unit
under the authority of KRS Chapter 100 and with all of the powers, duties, and
jurisdiction as provided in the chapter, except as hereinafter limited.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)
§ 150.02 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a joint Planning Commission
which shall be known as the County Joint Planning Commission, which shall have
the powers, duties, and jurisdiction as provided for by KRS Chapter 100, except
as hereinafter limited.
   (B)   (1) The Commission shall consist of 12 members.
      (2)   The county shall appoint three members whose initial term shall be
for one, two, and four years respectively, and who shall be citizen members.
Carrollton shall appoint six members, four of whom shall be citizen members
whose initial term shall be for one, two, three, and four years respectively,
and two of whom shall be elected public officials of Carrollton whose, terms
shall be the same as their official tenure in office. Ghent shall appoint one
citizen member whose initial term shall be three years. Sanders shall appoint
one citizen member whose initial term shall be four years and Worthville shall
appoint one citizen member whose initial term shall be two years.
      (3)   After the expiration of the initial terms of office of the citizen
members, provided in division (B) above, appointments and reappointments shall
be made for terms of four years, so as to continue the pattern for staggering
the terms of citizen members of the Commission.
   (C)   The County Judge/Executive shall appoint the members for the county
subject to the approval of the Fiscal Court. The Chief elected official (Mayor
or Chairperson of the Board of Trustees) of each city entitled to one or more
members shall appoint such members with the approval of their respective
legislative bodies (City Council or Board of Trustees).
   (D)   Reimbursement for expenses or compensation or both is authorized for
citizen members and reimbursement for expenses for elected public officials who
are members is hereby authorized; provided, however, that the reimbursement of
expenses and compensation is subject to funding by the involved units of
government.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)
§ 150.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The County Joint Planning Commission shall undertake only planning
operations, such as the preparation of a comprehensive plan, for the
unincorporated area of the county and the cities of Ghent, Sanders, and
Worthville, and shall not propose any land use (zoning) or subdivision
regulations for the unincorporated area of the county and the cities of Ghent,
Sanders, and Worthville, unless authorized to do so by appropriate order or
ordinance. However, the Commission shall have all the duties and authority
relative to land use (zoning) and subdivision regulations provided for by KRS
Chapter 100 with regard to the territorial limits of the City of Carrollton.
That is, the County Joint Planning Commission shall assume the duties,
functions, and authority of the Carrollton Planning Commission, whose existence
terminates upon the adoption hereof.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)
§ 150.04 COUNTY BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Since the City of Carrollton is the only party hereto having or desiring
land use and subdivision regulations, the Carrollton Board of Adjustment,
previously established by the city, shall continue in existence and shall have
the powers and duties as set forth in KRS Chapter 100. The territorial
jurisdiction of the Carrollton Board of Adjustment shall be coextensive with
that of the City of Carrollton, and no further. If any of the other units of
government who are a party hereto should authorize and adopt land use
regulations, then the unit of government shall establish its own Board of
Adjustment which shall have jurisdiction only within the area of the unit of
government (which in the case of the county is the unincorporated area of the
county).
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. passed 11-20-1973)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODS
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose, and Objectives
   
151.001   Statutory authorization
   
151.002   Findings of fact
   
151.003   Statement of purpose
   
151.004   Objectives
General Provisions
   
151.015   Definitions
   
151.016   Lands to which chapter applies
   
151.017   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.018   Establishment of development permit
   
151.019   Compliance
   
151.020   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.021   Interpretation
   
151.022   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.035   Designation of a Floodplain Administrator
   
151.036   Application for development permit
   
151.037   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.050   General construction standards
   
151.051   Specific standards
   
151.052   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
151.053   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
151.054   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.055   Standards for accessory structures
   
151.056   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variances
   
151.070   Nature of variances
   
151.071   Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.072   Procedures
   
151.073   Conditions
   
151.074   Notification
   
151.075   Historic structures
   
151.076   No impact certification within the floodway
 
   
151.999   Penalty
**** STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES ****
§ 151.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The legislature of the commonwealth has in KRS 67.084 delegated to
local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
   (B)   Therefore, the Fiscal Court hereby adopts the following floodplain
management chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.001) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 151.002) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Prior Code, § 151.003) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for his, her, or their actions.
(Prior Code, § 151.004) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year
flood, base flood elevations, and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use, which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-A30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood.) Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1-A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood, which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. (Also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD.) BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/AFA30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety,
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood, schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during, and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during, and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use, or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic, and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials, or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures, or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the county based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-YEAR FLOOD have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING, or FLOODWATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by floodwaters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state, and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and its contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
151.070, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the Fiscal Court
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL.
      (1)   The possible adverse incremental consequences that result from the
release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or misoperation of
a dam or appurtenances.
      (2)   The HAZARD POTENTIAL classification of a dam does not reflect in
any way the current condition of a dam and its appurtenant structures (e.g.,
safety, structural integrity, flood routing capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
      (1)   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE COVERAGE provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with state or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish,
or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and nonresidential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250 - PLANS FOR DAMS, LEVEES, AND THE LIKE TO
BE APPROVED AND PERMIT ISSUED BY CABINET (ENVIRONMENTAL AND PUBLIC PROTECTION
CABINET).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county, or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts, or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation, or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill, or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction, or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments,
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the
state shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier, or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising, or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this definition is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance, or operation of any drainage district, ditch, or
system established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the
same except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by
the cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water
resources in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control
thereof so notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter
350 shall have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the
regulation of dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other
obstructions across or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which
structures are permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining
operations.
   LETTER OE MAP CHANGE (LOMC). Is an official FEMA determination, by letter,
to amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMCs include the following
categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION - FILL (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met:
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised);
and
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entry way immediately next to the structure and after the
completion of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for
aesthetic or landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include
natural ground or properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a
structure’s foundation system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
recreational vehicle. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the MUDFLOW, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM’s. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of county’s floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the county’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including, but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months’ duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM’s and Digitally Referenced FIRM’s
(DFIRM’s). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% or greater
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that
begins with the letter “A” is subject to the 100-year flood. Over the life of a
30-year flood, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood with the
SFHA. See BASE FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AB, A1-A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (Includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT and OTHER PROPOSED
NEW DEVELOPMENT). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement, or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage
occurring. This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive
loss.
      (1)   For the purposes of this definition, REPAIR is considered to occur
when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the code enforcement official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of an historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or improvement to a
building, taking place during a five-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the building. For the purposes of this definition, an IMPROVEMENT occurs when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of
the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the code enforcement official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS or SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B Zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. UNSHADED X ZONES (C Zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Prior Code, § 151.020) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.016 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the Fiscal Court from available technical studies, historical information, and
other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the
Fiscal Court which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that
can adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
citizens of the county.
(Prior Code, § 151.035) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.017 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the county,
dated July 17, 2007, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. This FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the Fiscal Court by the Floodplain
Administrator and are enacted by the Fiscal Court pursuant to statutes
governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent
records of the county and are on file and available for review by the public
during regular business hours at the County Courthouse at 440 Main Street,
Carrollton, KY 41008.
(Prior Code, § 151.036) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.018 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
151.036 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 151.037) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.019 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the Fiscal Court from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 151.038) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.020 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 151.039) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.021 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A) Considered minimum requirements;
   (B) Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C) Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
(Prior Code, § 151.040) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.022 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the Fiscal Court, any officer or
employee, the commonwealth, the Federal Insurance Administration, or the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 151.041) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 151.035 DESIGNATION OF A FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Fiscal Court hereby appoints the Judge Executive and/or his, her, or
their designee to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 151.055) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.036 APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
151.017. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade;
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the floodproofing criteria in §
151.051(B) and §
151.053(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to Mean Sea Level. In AE, A1-A30, AH, and A
Zones where the community has adopted a regulatory Base Flood Elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop work order for the project.
(Prior Code, § 151.056) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.037 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized, and directed to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following.
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
151.017, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
151.050 through
151.056. Any such information shall be submitted to the Fiscal Court for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the State Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
151.051(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
Mean Sea Level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
51.036(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
151.051(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown
on a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
151.036(B);
         (c)   Certification required by §
151.051(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
151.074(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
151.051(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as specified in
§
151.999.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
151.071(B)(2).
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.017, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.050 through
151.056.
         (c)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.051(B) a floodproofing certificate.
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Floodplain Administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any
premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes such building,
structure, or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Floodplain
Administrator may enter such building, structure, or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the Floodplain
Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building,
structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of such
request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care, or control of any
building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the administrator
for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator,
work on any building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her
agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under
which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee, or member
because of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision
of this chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final
termination of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 151.057) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
**** PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 151.050 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Prior Code, § 151.070) (Ord. Passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.051 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
151.017, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than two feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with
standards of division (C) below.
      (1)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced. 401
KAR 004:060, § 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a
state floodplain permit: The applicant shall provide cross-sections for
determining floodway boundaries (and thereby base flood elevations) at any
proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross-
sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error
tolerances of no more than +0.5 foot. Cross-section elevations shall be taken
at those points which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where
hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross-section
shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and
at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that
significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional
cross-sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for
making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   (a) In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation.
         (b) Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the Community Building Inspection
Department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than two feet above the level of the base flood
elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
151.036(A)(3);
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below an
elevation two feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin 1-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-A30, AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring.
         (a)   Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and/or
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   (a)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial
damage as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated
so that:
         (b)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement,
so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two feet above the level of the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A, A1-A30,
AO, AH, and AE on the community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
      (4)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is licensed
and insured in accordance with the state’s motor vehicle regulations, is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways.
      (1)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.017 are areas designated as floodways.
         (a)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and has
erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply.
         (b)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge.
      (2)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
151.050 through
151.056.
   (F)   Standards for utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 151.071) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.052 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.017, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   (1)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (2)   The engineering certification should be supported by technical data
that conforms to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or floodproofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.017.
(Prior Code, § 151.072) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.053 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.017, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet, where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply.
   (A)   (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   In Zone AO, if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated no less than two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
151.051(B).
(Prior Code, § 151.073) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.054 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 151.074) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.055 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood-resistant materials below a level two feet above the
base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Prior Code, § 151.075) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.056 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Prior Code, § 151.076) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
**** APPEALS AND VARIANCES ****
§ 151.070 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (B)   (1)   It is the duty of the Fiscal Court to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
ensuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood chapter are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited.
      (2)   Therefore, the variance guidelines provided in this chapter are
more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be met before a
variance can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to screen out those
situations in which alternatives other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.071 VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Fiscal Court shall
establish an Appeals Board consisting of the Fiscal Court.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local District Court, as provided in
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.072 PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeals Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and the:
   (A)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (B)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
   (D)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the proposed
facility;
   (E)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case of
functionally dependent facility;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.073 CONDITIONS.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard. MINIMUM
NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the Fiscal Court need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the Fiscal Court believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard. In the
instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be made that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not destroy the historic
character and design of the structure.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the §
151.015 under public safety and nuisance), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
151.015), or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (E)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
   (G)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of division §
151.074 are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.074 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.075 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (see §
151.020) upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure’s continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.076 NO IMPACT CERTIFICATION WITHIN THE FLOODWAY.
   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped or designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Prior Code, § 151.090) (Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee
or agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed.
      (2)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Prior Code, § 151.998)
   (C)   (1)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or
complying with the teens and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and
any approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
      (2) Penalties. Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with granting of a variance or special
exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who
violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined no less than $500 or imprisoned for not more
than 180 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses
involved in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain
Administrator from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent
or remedy any violation.
(Prior Code, § 151.999)
(Ord. passed 7-19-2007)
CHAPTER 152: DILAPIDATED HOUSING
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Petition alleging that structure is unfit; complaint; notice and
hearing
   
152.03   Hearing as to unfitness; findings of fact; order
   
152.04   Repair, closing, or demolition by metropolitan area when order not
complied with; lien for expense
   
152.05   Conditions that warrant finding of unfitness
   
152.06   Eviction of occupants of condemned structure
   
152.07   Service of complaints and orders
   
152.08   Remedies
   
152.09   Power of county officers to investigate structures and obtain
evidence; employees
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgage of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a structure and any who are in possession thereof.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, or part thereof used or occupied, or intended for
use or occupancy, for human habitation or commercial or industrial purposes,
and includes any out-buildings and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith.
(Prior Code, § 152.01)
§ 152.02 PETITION ALLEGING THAT STRUCTURE IS UNFIT; COMPLAINT; NOTICE AND
HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the hearing officer by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the metropolitan area charging that
any structure is unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use, or whenever it
appears to the hearing officer (on his or her own motion) that any structure is
unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use, the hearing officer shall, if
his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the charges, issue
and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such
structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect.
   (B)   The complaint shall state: that a hearing will be held before the
hearing officer (or his or her designated agent) at a place therein fixed not
less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint;
that the owner and parties in interest may file an answer to the complaint and
appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed
in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 152.02)
§ 152.03 HEARING AS TO UNFITNESS; FINDINGS OF FACT; ORDER.
   If, after the notice and hearing, the hearing officer determines that the
structure under consideration is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use,
he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in support of the
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order requiring the owner:
   (A)   To the extent and within the time specified in the order, to repair,
alter, or improve the said structure to render it fit for human habitation,
occupancy or use, or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the
structure if the repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure can be
made at a cost that is not more than 50% of the value of the structure; or
   (B)   Within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish the
structure if the repair, alteration, or improvement of the structure cannot be
made at a cost that is not more than 50% of the value of the structure.
(Prior Code, § 152.03)
§ 152.04 REPAIR, CLOSING, OR DEMOLITION BY METROPOLITAN AREA WHEN ORDER NOT
COMPLIED WITH; LIEN FOR EXPENSE.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the structure, the
hearing officer may cause the structure to be repaired, altered, or improved,
or to be vacated and closed. The hearing officer may cause to be posted on the
main entrance of any structure so closed, a placard with the following words:
“This building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy or use; the use or
occupation of this building for human habitation, occupancy, or use, is
prohibited and unlawful.”
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
structure, the hearing officer may cause the structure to be removed or
demolished.
   (C)   The cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or vacating and
closing, or removal or demolition shall be a lien upon the real property upon
which cost was incurred. If the structure is caused to be removed or demolished
by the hearing officer, he or she or the public agency through which he or she
has caused the structure to be removed or demolished, shall sell the materials
of the structure and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of
the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the
circuit court by the hearing officer or the public agency, shall be secured in
such manner as may be directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by the
court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of
the court.
(Prior Code, § 152.04)
§ 152.05 CONDITIONS THAT WARRANT FINDING OF UNFITNESS.
   The hearing officer may determine that a structure is unfit for human
habitation, occupancy, or use if he or she finds that conditions exist in such
structure which are dangerous or injurious to the health, safety, or morals of
the occupants of such structure, the occupants of neighboring structures or
other residents of the metropolitan area. The conditions may include the
following (without limiting the generality of the foregoing): Defects
increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or other calamities; lack of adequate
ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; dilapidation; disrepair; structural
defects; uncleanliness.
(Prior Code, § 152.05)
§ 152.06 EVICTION OF OCCUPANTS OF CONDEMNED STRUCTURE.
   When the hearing officer has condemned as unfit for human habitation,
occupancy, or use, any structure, pursuant to this chapter and has ordered same
to be vacated, the hearing officer may, after ten days’ notice to the occupant
or occupants thereof, apply to the District Court and obtain from the court an
order of eviction against the occupant or occupants thereof, and the Sheriff
shall forthwith evict the occupant or occupants and his or her belongings from
the building.
(Prior Code, § 152.06)
§ 152.07 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by a hearing officer pursuant to this chapter
shall be served upon persons either personally or by certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of the person is unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the
hearing officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the hearing
officer shall make an affidavit to that effect, then the service of the
complaint or order upon such persons may be made by publication pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424. A copy of the complaint or order shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on premises affected by the complaint or order, and shall be recorded in
the office of the County Clerk wherein the structure is located.
(Prior Code, § 152.07)
§ 152.08 REMEDIES.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the hearing officer may, within 30
days after the posting and service of the order, petition the circuit court for
an injunction restraining the hearing officer from carrying out the provisions
of the order, and the court may issue a temporary injunction restraining the
hearing officer pending the final disposition of the case. Hearings shall be
had by the court on the petition within 20 days, or as soon thereafter as
possible. In all such proceedings the findings of the hearing officer as to
facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive. Costs shall be in the
discretion of the court. The remedies herein provided shall be exclusive
remedies and no person affected by an order of the hearing officer shall be
entitled to recover any damages for action taken pursuant to any order of the
hearing officer, or because of noncompliance by such person with any order of
the hearing officer.
(Prior Code, § 152.08)
§ 152.09 POWER OF COUNTY OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE STRUCTURES AND OBTAIN
EVIDENCE; EMPLOYEES.
   The hearing officer shall be vested with such powers as are necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this
chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the structural conditions in the county area in order
to determine which structures therein are unfit for human habitation,
occupancy, or use;
   (B)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations, but the
entries shall be made in such manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the chapter; and
   (E)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under the chapter
to such officers and agents as he or she designates.
(Prior Code, § 152.09)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
 
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cite Code Section
KRS Cite                Code Section
23A.220                 33.01
24A.185                 33.01
                        31.01;
Chapters 39A - 39F      31.02;
                        31.03;
                        31.15
61.810                  34.65
61.870 - 61.884         34.69
61.872 - 61.884         34.25
64.091                  33.01
65.003                  34.03
65.8801 - 65.8839       35.02;
                        35.13
65.8815(5)              35.05
65.8835                 35.12
Chapter 67              34.03
67.084                  151.001
75.450(2)               33.20
75.450(8)               33.99
82.082                  34.03
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.065                 10.99
83A.080                 34.04
91A.010(4)              10.02
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.080                 110.17
Chapter 100             150.01 -
                        150.04
Chapter 109             51.009
136.120                 110.17
Chapter 151             151.015
151.250                 151.016
154.20-250 - 154.20-284 110.17
164.950                 32.02
171.420                 34.06
177.905 et seq.         90.01
186A.115                70.03
Chapter 189             70.03
189.010(19)             130.01
189.010(24)             70.02
189.286                 70.04
189.286(1)(a)           70.02
189.515(6)(f)           70.04
189.820                 70.04
190.030                 110.01
Chapter 202A            32.09
202A.400                32.09
209.020                 32.02
209.020(4)              32.02
209.050                 32.10
219.320                 90.01
224.10-210              51.021
237.110(10)             32.06
242.485                 110.40
Chapter 243             110.17
243.070                 110.41
Chapter 258             92.03
304.39-080              70.04
Chapter 350             151.015
381.770                 90.03
Chapter 403             32.06
403.700 - 403.785       32.10
403.720                 32.02
403.720(1)              32.02
403.720(2)              32.02
403.720(3)              32.02
403.735                 32.02
403.740                 32.02
403.750                 32.02
403.7521(1)             32.02
403.760(2)              32.02
403.784                 32.10
403.785(2)              32.08
Chapter 424             152.07
431.005(2)              32.02
431.005(2)(a)           32.06
431.005(2)(c)           32.02
431.005(3)              32.02
431.005(4)              32.06
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03
446.020(2)              10.03
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03
446.080(3)              10.03
446.080(4)              10.03
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
500.080(13)             32.02
503.010(3)              32.02
503.050                 32.02
503.070                 32.02
508.032                 32.10
508.130(1)              32.02
508.130(2)              32.02
534.040(2)(c)           10.99
Chapters 600 - 645      32.09
600.020                 32.02
600.020(1)              32.02
620.050                 32.10
630.030                 130.02
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2026 Code
Prior Code 2026 Code
31.01      31.01
31.02      31.02
31.03      31.03
31.99      31.99
32.01      32.01
32.02      32.02
32.03      32.03
32.04      32.04
32.05      32.05 -
           32.10
32.06      32.11
50.01      50.01
50.02      50.02
50.99      50.99
51.001     51.001
51.002     51.002
51.003     51.003
51.004     51.004
51.005     51.005
51.006     51.006
51.007     51.007
51.008     51.008
51.009     51.009
51.025     51.020
51.026     51.021
51.027     51.022
51.028     51.023
51.029     51.024
51.040     51.035
51.041     51.036
51.042     51.037
51.043     51.038
51.044     51.039
51.045     51.040
51.046     51.041
51.047     51.042
51.048     51.043
51.049     51.044
51.050     51.045
51.065     51.060
51.066     51.061
51.067     51.062
51.068     51.063
51.069     51.064
51.070     51.065
51.071     51.066
51.072     51.067
51.073     51.068
51.074     51.069
51.075     51.070
51.076     51.071
51.077     51.072
51.078     51.073
51.079     51.074
51.080     51.075
51.081     51.076
51.082     51.077
51.083     51.078
51.084     51.079
51.085     51.080
51.086     51.081
51.087     51.082
51.088     51.083
51.089     51.084
51.090     51.085
51.091     51.086
51.092     51.087
51.093     51.088
51.999     51.999
91.01      91.01
93.01      93.01
93.02      93.02
93.03      93.03
93.04      93.04
93.05      93.05
93.06      93.06
93.07      93.07
110.01     110.01
110.40     110.40
110.41     110.41
110.42     110.42
111.01     111.01
111.02     111.02
111.03     111.03
111.04     111.04
111.05     111.05
111.06     111.06
111.07     111.07
111.08     111.08
111.09     111.09
111.10     111.10
111.11     111.11
111.12     111.12
111.13     111.13
111.14     111.14
111.15     111.15
111.16     111.16
111.17     111.17
111.18     111.18
111.19     111.19
111.30     111.30
111.31     111.31
111.32     111.32
111.33     111.33
112.01     112.01
112.02     112.02
112.03     112.03
112.04     112.04
112.05     112.05
112.06     112.06
112.07     112.07
112.08     112.08
112.09     112.09
112.10     112.10
112.99     112.99
130.01     130.01
130.02     130.02
130.99     130.99
150.01     150.01
150.02     150.02
150.03     150.03
150.04     150.04
151.001    151.001
151.002    151.002
151.003    151.003
151.004    151.004
151.020    151.015
151.035    151.016
151.036    151.017
151.037    151.018
151.038    151.019
151.039    151.020
151.040    151.021
151.041    151.022
151.055    151.035
151.056    151.036
151.057    151.037
151.070    151.050
151.071    151.051
151.072    151.052
151.073    151.053
151.074    151.054
151.075    151.055
151.076    151.056
151.090    151.070 -
           151.076
151.998    151.999
151.999    151.999
152.01     152.01
152.02     152.02
152.03     152.03
152.04     152.04
152.05     152.05
152.06     152.06
152.07     152.07
152.08     152.08
152.09     152.09
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
-          - -         30.02
-          11-20-1973  150.01 -
                       150.04
-          11-11-1981  130.01;
                       130.99
-          11-18-1986  91.01
-          7-14-1992   50.02
-          1-12-1993   50.01;
                       50.99
96-30      1-14-1997   32.01 -
                       32.11
                       31.01;
-          2-9-1999    31.02;
                       31.03;
                       31.99
                       110.40;
99-0604    6-4-1999    110.41;
                       110.42
                       51.001 -
                       51.009;
                       51.020 -
                       51.024;
-          9-28-1999   51.035 -
                       51.045;
                       51.060 -
                       51.088;
                       51.999
                       51.001 -
                       51.009;
                       51.020 -
                       51.024;
99-0928    9-28-1999   51.035 -
                       51.045;
                       51.060 -
                       51.088;
                       51.999
                       111.01 -
082900     8-29-2000   111.19;
                       111.30 -
                       111.33
                       151.001 -
                       151.004;
                       151.015 -
                       151.22;
                       151.035 -
-          7-19-2007   151.037;
                       151.050 -
                       151.56;
                       151.070 -
                       151.076;
                       151.999
-          8-28-2007   51.003
07-0918    9-18-2007   110.01
                       52.01 -
2011-0809A 8-9-2011    52.05;
                       52.99
2015-      5-15-2015   31.15
16-0510A   5-10-2016   Chapter 71; Schd. I
                       70.01 -
16-0510B   5-10-2016   70.04;
                       Chapter 71, Schd. II
-          5- -2017    33.02
                       92.01 -
-          5- -2017    92.03;
                       92.99
2018-0911  9-11-2018   130.03;
                       130.99
2019-0827  8-27-2019   30.02
                       90.01 -
2019-0910  9-10-2019   90.04;
                       90.99
2020-0211  2-11-2020   110.43
                       34.01 -
                       34.06;
                       34.20 -
                       34.27;
2020-0324  3-24-2020   34.40 -
                       34.45;
                       34.60 -
                       34.69;
                       34.99
2023-0328  3-28-2023   50.03
                       33.15 -
2023-0509  5-9-2023    33.21;
                       33.99
2023-0627  6-13-2023   30.01
2023-0711  7-11-2023   30.02
                       110.15 -
2023-0912  9-12-2023   110.26;
                       110.99
2023-1010  10-10-2023  30.02
2023-1212B 12-12-2023  30.02
2024-0213A 2-13-2024   30.02
2024-0213B 2-13-2024   30.02
2024-0213C 2-13-2024   30.02
2024-0924  9-24-2024   30.02
2024-1022  10-22-2024  35.01 -
                       35.14
                       90.01 -
2024-1112  11-12-2024  90.04;
                       90.99
2025-0513  5-13-2025   33.01
2025-0624A 6-24-2025   30.02
25-0624B   6-24-2025   70.15 -
                       70.18
2025-0722B 6-24-2025   30.02
                       34.01 -
                       34.06;
                       34.20 -
                       34.27;
2025-0722A 7-22-2025   34.40 -
                       34.45;
                       34.60 -
                       34.69;
                       34.99
2025-0722C 7-22-2025   30.02
                      
 
