CITY OF EDMONTON, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-26-08, passed 3-2-2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Edmonton Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads, and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY. When used in this code, shall denote the City of Edmonton irrespective
of its population or legal classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Metcalfe County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilmember.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Edmonton, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
37.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
38.   DISASTER AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE
      
39.   CITY POLICIES
      
40.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan,” and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 to 83A.120 govern
the city.
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six nor more than
12 members as prescribed by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Legislative body composition, see KRS 83A.030(1)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.37   Deputy City Clerk
   
31.38   Assistant City Clerk
   
31.39   City Attorney
   
31.40   Public Works Superintendent
   
31.41   City Administrator
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this state, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every elected
city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the
officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed
after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky,
which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a
rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200
per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v. Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed shall be eligible to fill the office
vacated before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers, officials, and employees of the city who handle public
funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to
the city for the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as
security for all money coming into that person’s hands or under that person’s
control. The amount of the bond shall be based upon the maximum amount of
public funds the officer, official, or employee handles at any given time
during a fiscal year cycle. The city shall pay the cost of the bond.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) above.
(KRS 65.067)
**** ELECTED OFFICIALS ****
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be governed by general election laws
as provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except the offices of
Mayor and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election for a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the City Council
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs in the office of
Mayor which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the
City Council or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment,
shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of
State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and shall require each department to
make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems
desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest. (KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this division
(D)(8) within 30 days of the action. If for any reason the disability of the
Mayor to attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the
office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and
the provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
**** NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS ****
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080(1))
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be with
approval of City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall
be appointed by the Mayor at will and these appointments need not be approved
by City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal of a nonelected
officer at will, the Mayor shall give the officer a written statement setting
forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this requirement shall
not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will dismissal power of the
Mayor.
(KRS 83A.080(3))
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (2)   Deputy City Clerk;
      (3)   Assistant City Clerk;
      (4)   City Attorney;
      (5)   Public Works Superintendent; and
      (6)   City Administrator.
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk/Treasurer may, by ordinance, be combined with
any other nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the
office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer shall include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, Councilmembers, and the correct name, telephone number, and
electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who are
serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January 1
of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or chief financial officer;
            3.   City Manager or administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/Treasurer unless
the person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in the commonwealth and conditioned upon
the performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.37 DEPUTY CITY CLERK.
   (A)   There is created the office of Deputy City Clerk of the city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office shall be as required of the
Deputy City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed by the Deputy City Clerk shall be
that set forth in § 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Deputy City Clerk shall
provide bond in the amount of $85,000, with a corporate surety authorized and
qualified to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance
of the duties specified in division (B) above.
   (D)   Compensation for this office shall be in an amount established by
ordinance of the City Council as provided in §
31.02.
(Prior Code, § 31.37)
§ 31.38 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (A)   There is created the office of Assistant City Clerk of the city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office shall be as required of the
Assistant City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed by the Assistant City Clerk shall be
that set forth in § 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Assistant City Clerk shall
provide bond in the amount of $85,000, with a corporate surety authorized and
qualified to transact business in the state and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified in division (B) above.
   (D)   Compensation for this office shall be in an amount established by
ordinance of the City Council as provided in §
31.02.
(Prior Code, § 31.33)
§ 31.39 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney.
   (B)   The Mayor, with the approval of City Council, shall appoint a City
Attorney who shall be the general law officer and legal counsel of the city.
The Mayor may remove the City Attorney at will. He or she shall be an attorney
licensed to practice in the commonwealth. He or she shall be chosen solely on
the basis of his or her legal qualifications, with special emphasis on actual
experience in or knowledge of state municipal and administrative law. The City
Attorney may also engage in the private practice of law and may hold other
public or private employment.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall have and exercise all powers and duties
assigned to him or her by statute, this chapter, and such other municipal
responsibilities delegated from time to time. He or she shall attend all
meetings of the City Council except budget meetings at which his or her
presence is not specifically requested, shall advise the Mayor, the City
Council, and all other city officers and employees in all legal matters
pertaining to their municipal duties or affecting the interests of the city,
shall appear for and defend the city in all legal actions and administrative
proceedings in which the city is a party or is interested, shall institute
legal action for and in behalf of the city wherever necessary for protection or
enforcement of rights or interests of the city, shall prepare and examine
ordinances, resolutions, orders, and legal instruments as the Council may
direct, and generally shall attend to all legal business of the city. The City
Attorney may, but shall not be obligated to, represent the Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   The City Attorney shall be paid a reasonable retainer and reasonable
fees commensurate with the amount and value of time devoted to providing legal
services to the city, based upon charges made by other attorneys for comparable
legal services.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as City Attorney unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond in the amount of $85,000, with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned
upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 31.39)
§ 31.40 PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The office of Public Works Superintendent is hereby established.
   (B)   The Public Works Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080; and may be removed by
the Mayor at will.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Public Works Superintendent
unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond in the amount of $85,000,
with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the state and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
   (D)   The compensation of the Public Works Superintendent shall be in an
amount to be established by City Council by ordinance, in accordance with §
31.02 of this code.
   (E)   The position is directly responsible to the Mayor for the
administration and coordination of the activities performed by the employees
within the Department. The person filling this position will, on occasion,
represent the city in an official capacity when requested to do so by the
Mayor. The person holding this position is responsible for the proper
maintenance of the physical plant of the city, including, but not limited to,
all gas, water, and sewer lines, the sewage and water treatment plants, city
streets and sidewalks, and all other properties of the city for which the
Department is assigned responsibility. The position is responsible for the
supervision of all maintenance or construction of the physical plant, ensuring
compliance with all state and federal regulations for water and sewage
treatment, and performs whatever other duties and/or functions may at times be
seen as necessary for the proper operation of the Department or the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.40)
§ 31.41 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of City Administrator pursuant to
KRS 83A.090. The City Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor and be
directly responsible to the Mayor, performing administrator and personnel
director duties.
   (B)   The qualifications as set out in KRS 83A.090 shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Advise the Mayor in policy formulation on overall problems of the
city;
      (2)   Have major responsibility for preparation and administration of
operating and capital improvement budgets under the direction of the Mayor;
      (3)   Advise the Mayor in the appointment of subordinate administrative
personnel; and serves as personnel director and is to advise the Mayor on
personnel decisions;
      (4)   Have continuing direct relationships with operating department
heads on implementation and administration of programs; and
      (5)   Answers inquiries and complaints and attends to their disposition
   (C)   The City Administrator shall carry out all additional duties lawfully
delegated by appropriate order of the executive authority and shall have the
same powers as the executive authority in carrying out such duties.
(Ord. 2018-19-09, passed 1-15-2019)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or
her election and shall be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A Councilmember shall be at least 18 years of age,
shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout
his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on City Council occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with
the remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall
immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State
of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason any vacancy on the City
Council is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person, who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the elected Council of the city. The Council shall not perform any executive
functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The Council shall have the right to investigate all activities
of city government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
      (2)   (a)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
         (b)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the
Council and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of
any department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
**** RULES OF PROCEDURE ****
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council may
set, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number may be selected to
preside at meetings of the Council in place of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall begin at 4:00 p.m. on the first
Monday of each month at the City Council Meeting Room, City Building, Edmonton,
Kentucky.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Councilmembers and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 5-4-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Generally, see KRS 83A.130(11)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council shall
constitute a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
**** ORDINANCES ****
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Edmonton.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   (A)   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and
ordinances to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section
indicating any text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it.
   (B)   Text that is intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning
with an opening bracket and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between
the brackets shall be stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the Council within ten days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Kentucky
Constitution § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Financing of improvements
   
33.17   Apportionment of cost
   
33.18   Comprehensive report required
   
33.19   Public hearing required
   
33.20   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.21   Affected owner may contest
   
33.22   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.23   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Fees
   
33.35   Arrest fees
**** FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provision of law, no monies shall be expended from any governmental
or proprietary fund except in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted
pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may be in any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant
for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the
unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below, each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit
shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) above, a city
with a population equal to or less than 3,000 based upon the most recent
federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every other
fiscal year in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd-numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $500,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division (C) shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division (C) for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division (C). An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division (C) shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division (C)(2)(d) shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement
under KRS 424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an
attestation engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (D)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (E)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under divisions (A) to (C) above to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (F)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with an auditor, who shall be a
certified public accountant or the Auditor of Public Accounts. The contract
shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement, which shall include,
but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual audit or biennial report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (G)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (H)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (I)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
Court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (J)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) to (C) above, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if, in the judgment
of the Department for Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating
circumstances beyond the control of the city or other factors that justify the
city’s noncompliance with the required deadlines. The Department for Local
Government may consider any evidence it deems appropriate, including but not
limited to proof of the city’s progress towards compliance. Extensions granted
under this division (J) shall not exceed 18 months from the original due date
of the audit or financial statement. If the Department for Local Government
approves an extension for a city and the city fails to complete and submit the
required audit or financial statement in compliance with that extended
deadline, then the provisions of division (K) of this section shall apply.
   (K)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) to (C)
and (J) above, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance and
Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) to (C) and (J) above for all prior fiscal years
it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and the
Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of payments
to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the noncompliance.
This division (K) shall not be interpreted or construed to permit the state to
withhold any nondiscriminatory payments to a city that are due the city for the
provision of services by the city to the state or any of its agencies,
including for the use of city utilities.
   (L)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including, but not limited to, travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
**** IMPROVEMENTS ****
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.16 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.17 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.18 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.19 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.18, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.20 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.18 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.21 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.20, any affected property owner may file an action in the Circuit Court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.22 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.21, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.23 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.18 through
33.22 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
**** FEES ****
§ 33.35 ARREST FEES.
   The fee for arrests or service of a warrant is $30.
(Ord. 2021-22-05, passed 1-3-2022)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
(KRS 61.870(9))
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.
      (1)   The direct or indirect use of any part of a public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
         (a)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
         (b)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its
news or other informational programs; or
         (c)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY in this section that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.
      (1)   An individual residing in the commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to 189.635(9)(b)1.e.
(KRS 61.870(10))
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
**** PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS ****
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of
this city shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer during regular office hours, except during legal holidays.
      (2)   The official custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority
of the official custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to
be in writing, signed by the applicant and with the applicant’s name printed
legibly on the application. A written request to inspect public records may be
presented by hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1)—(3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the five-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.25
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court shall
authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to civil
litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by another statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by another statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals, engineering or feasibility
estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative to
acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action; however, records or information compiled
and maintained by county attorneys or the commonwealth’s attorneys pertaining
to criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter and shall remain exempted after enforcement action,
including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to take no action. The
exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian
of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights granted by this
chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information
technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water,
wastewater, sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6. of this
section; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in §
34.19, to the Executive Director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security
and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs; and
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the Open Records Law, being
KRS 61.870 et seq.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party.
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption in this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny,
abridge, or impede the right of a public agency employee, including university
employees, an applicant for employment, or an eligible on a register to inspect
and to copy any record, including preliminary and other supporting
documentation, that relates to him or her. The records shall include, but not
be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions,
compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary
actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other supporting
documentation.
      (2)   A public agency employee, including university employees,
applicant, or eligible shall not have the right to inspect or to copy any
examination or any documents relating to ongoing criminal or administrative
investigations by an agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) above, the city shall not be required to make a copy of the recording
except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties shall not be
limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878(6))
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in Circuit Court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Levy of tax
   
35.03   Due date; payment
   
35.04   Delinquency
   
35.05   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.06   Disposition of funds
Bank Franchise and Local Deposit Tax
   
35.20   Imposition; collection; delinquency
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the county assessment for all real and personal property situated within
the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved by the
City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
§ 35.02 LEVY OF TAX.
   There is hereby levied an ad valorem tax in an amount as set from time to
time by ordinance on the assessed valuation of all real estate and personal
property subject to taxation for municipal purposes and having a taxable situs
in the city, as listed in the tax assessment ledger compiled by the County
Property Valuation Administration.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 1996, passed 11-4-1996)
§ 35.03 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All tax payers who may owe taxes, under this chapter shall pay the
same to the City Tax Collector on or before the due date.
   (B)   A discount of 2% of the total bill will be allowed if paid on or
before January 31.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 1996, passed 11-4-1996)
§ 35.04 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   There shall be added, by way of penalty, to the tax bills of all
taxpayers who fail to pay same on or before March 1 an amount equal to 10% of
the total tax bill, and upon the total tax bill plus penalty, there shall be
charged interest at the rate of 6% per annum from March 30 until paid, and such
delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses incidental to any
action taken by the city for the collection of such delinquent tax bill.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state statutes relating to the collection of such delinquent tax bill by cities
of the fifth class.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 1996, passed 11-4-1996)
§ 35.05 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810, and any taxes not paid by the date when they become
delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 35.06 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
**** BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX ****
§ 35.20 IMPOSITION; COLLECTION; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all “financial institutions,” as defined in
KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, a franchise
tax at a rate as set from time to time by ordinance on all deposits, as defined
in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial institutions.
   (B)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than
December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by
December 31 of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject
to the tax imposed by this section, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (D)   All taxes due in accordance with this section which are not paid
before January 31 shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a penalty
of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 35.15) (Ord. 96-2, passed 9-9-1996)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
   
36.01   Adopted by reference
§ 36.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel polices are hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of the
policies can be found in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(Res. 2023-2024-04, passed 4-8-2024)
CHAPTER 37: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Title
   
37.02   Findings
   
37.03   Purpose and authority
   
37.04   Definitions
   
37.05   Nepotism
Standards of Conduct
   
37.20   Conflicts of interest in general
   
37.21   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
37.22   Receipt of gifts
   
37.23   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
37.24   Representation of interests before city government
   
37.25   Misuse of confidential information
   
37.26   Post-employment restriction
   
37.27   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
37.40   Officers and employees required to file
   
37.41   When to file statements; amended statements
   
37.42   Form of statement of financial interests
   
37.43   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interests
   
37.44   Contents of financial interests statement
   
37.45   Noncompliance with filing requirement
 
   
37.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 37.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Edmonton Code
of Ethics.”
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depend upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application, and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS Chapter 65, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS Chapter 65.
(Prior Code, § 37.03) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
city’s code of ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in CANDIDATE with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by the city. The term EMPLOYEE shall not include any
contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, grandparent, or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (4)   Superintendent of Public Works;
      (5)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; or
      (6)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who had been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Prior Code, § 37.04) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.05 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer, or
advancement of an immediate family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city agency shall supervise or manage
the work of an immediate family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions on this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(Prior Code, § 37.05) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
**** STANDARDS OF CONDUCT ****
§ 37.20 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has an interest as defined in §
37.44 of this chapter; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest to the governing body of the city or city agency served by the
officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record
of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or employee shall refrain
from taking any action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the
disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 37.15) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.21 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly,
or through others, undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office,
before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or
before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any
contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or
she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee,
is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumed the appointed office,
or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division (A) above shall
apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules, or regulations of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 37.16) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.22 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair value of more than $100, whether in the form of money, service,
loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing, or promise, or any other form,
under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence the officer
or employee in the performance of his or her public duties.
(Prior Code, § 37.17) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.23 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 37.18) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.24 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (C)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Prior Code, § 37.19) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.25 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 37.20) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.26 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Prior Code, § 37.21) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.27 HONORARIA.
   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the city or
any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf of the
city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the officer or
employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article, provided that
the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence that the
expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city agency and
primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not primarily for the
benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 37.22) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
**** FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ****
§ 37.40 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES REQUIRED TO FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (E)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or awarded
contracts, leases, or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $5,000.
(Prior Code, § 37.35) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.41 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:00 p.m. March 1, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest
shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on March 1, each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 15 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 37.36) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.42 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 15 of each year.
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Prior Code, § 37.37) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.43 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 37.38) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.44 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (for example, salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more; and
      (8)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family, or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Prior Code, § 37.39) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 37.45 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(Prior Code, § 37.40) (Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $500, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter may be
required to forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the
economic benefit or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the
Board to have realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any
forfeiture may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt
if the offender fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed
period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter may be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or the city agency, or by any
other officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action
to remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 37.99)
   (D)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice in §
37.45 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay
the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (E)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
as set forth in §
37.45 which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 37.40)
(Ord. 1994, passed 12-5-1994)
CHAPTER 38: DISASTER AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE
Section
   
38.01   Findings of fact; purpose
   
38.02   Director; appointment; responsibilities
   
38.03   False representation prohibited
   
38.04   Arrangements for mutual aid
Cross-reference:
   Police Department, see
Chapter 40
§ 38.01 FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE.
   In order to minimize the destructiveness resulting from fire, flood,
tornado, other natural or human-caused disasters, riot, enemy attack, sabotage,
explosion, power failure, energy shortages, transportation emergencies, or
other causes, and the threatened or impending happening of any of the above,
and in order to ensure that preparations and response for the city will be
adequate to deal with disasters or emergencies or the threat of same and in
order to preserve life and property of the people of the city and to protect
the public peace, health, and safety, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To create and maintain an agency within the city government for
disaster and emergency response, and to work with the county in a joint effort
for organization, administration, and operation of such program. The title of
the agency is to be County Disaster and Emergency Services;
   (B)   To provide for the appointment of a Director or to acknowledge the
appointment of a Director by the County Judge/Executive with duties and
responsibilities to the city as specified hereinafter and additional
responsibilities bestowed upon him or her by the appointing authority; and
   (C)   To provide for the arrangements of mutual aid among the city agencies
and nongovernment agencies, the full utilization of city resources during
emergencies and disasters, and the arrangements for mutual aid with adjacent
jurisdictions for assistance during emergency and disaster situations.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. passed 3-2-1981)
§ 38.02 DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Under the authority of this chapter and the provisions of KRS 39B.020,
the appointment of a Director for the city is required. Such official is to be
appointed by the Mayor or in the case of a combined city and county program,
the County Judge/Executive and shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, and operation of emergency response activity in
the city, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor and governing body.
The Director may serve with or without compensation. The Director of the County
Disaster and Emergency Services is further authorized:
      (1)   To represent the city on all matters pertaining to disaster and
emergency services;
      (2)   To coordinate efforts of all city agencies during emergencies and
disasters within the city;
      (3)   To direct and coordinate the development of disaster and emergency
plans and programs among city services, agencies, and nongovernment agencies in
accordance with policies prescribed by state and federal agencies;
      (4)   To procure needed supplies, services, and equipment during
emergency and disaster situations, and to receive and sign for equipment,
material, services, and funds furnished by or loaned from the federal and state
governments; and
      (5)   To organize volunteers to serve as members of rescue and recovery
squads and coordinate with other volunteer personnel to serve during emergency,
and disaster situations.
   (B)   The functions and responsibilities of the Director of the local
disaster response organization shall be shared by the elected and appointed
heads of all jurisdictional services and agencies with an emergency response
capability during an emergency or disaster.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. passed 3-2-1981)
§ 38.03 FALSE REPRESENTATION PROHIBITED.
   No person or organization shall represent themselves to the public as
constituting a unit of the local disaster response organization unless
specifically authorized, in writing, by the Director and/or the appointing
authority.
(Prior Code, § 38.03) (Ord. passed 3-2-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 38.04 ARRANGEMENTS FOR MUTUAL AID.
   The Mayor with the consent of the governing body may develop or cause to be
developed, arrangements for mutual aid with adjacent counties and jurisdictions
and other public and private agencies for emergency response assistance in case
of emergency or disaster situations too great to be overcome by the use of
local resources available.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. passed 3-2-1981)
CHAPTER 39: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Speed table, bump, and hump policy
Discrimination Based on Handicapped Status
   
39.15   Adoption of procedures
   
39.16   Administration
   
39.17   Amendment of procedures
   
39.18   Grievance procedures for discrimination based on handicapped status
American Disability Act Grievance Procedure
   
39.30   Purpose of rules
   
39.31   Adoption of grievance procedure
   
39.32   Filing of complaints
   
39.33   Investigations
   
39.34   Determination of validity; description of resolution
   
39.35   Maintenance of files and records
   
39.36   Request for reconsideration
   
39.37   Pursuit of other remedies
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 39.01 SPEED TABLE, BUMP, AND HUMP POLICY.
   A petition is required to be presented to the City Council to install speed
table, bump, or humps with signatures of all property owners of said street. If
the Council approves the request, the Public Works Superintendent with the
assistance of the Mayor and City Clerk/Treasurer will verify all property
owners of said street have signed the petition, then the installation of speed
table, bump, or hump may proceed on approved street.
(Ord. 2024-2025-06, passed 10-3-2024)
**** DISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAPPED STATUS ****
§ 39.15 ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES.
   The procedures set forth in this subchapter shall be the grievance
procedures for anyone who believes he or she has been discriminated against by
the city based on handicapped status with respect to federally funded programs.
(Prior Code, § 39.01) (Ord. passed 1-6-1986)
§ 39.16 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the executive authority of the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.02) (Ord. passed 1-6-1986)
§ 39.17 AMENDMENT OF PROCEDURES.
   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court directives
or additional federal and state regulations.
(Prior Code, § 39.03) (Ord. passed 1-6-1986)
§ 39.18 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES FOR DISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAPPED STATUS.
   The following grievance procedure is set forth for any person who believes
that he or she has been subjected to discrimination based on handicapped status
as prohibited by § 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. § 794
and 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131 et seq. The purpose of the procedure is to assure the
prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging such discrimination.
This procedure does not apply to discrimination in employment. Such complaints
should be presented under procedures set forth in the personnel policies and
procedures.
   (A)   Step one. Any person with a grievance concerning handicapped access to
programs, services, and benefits that the city provides shall present the
grievance, in writing, to the coordinator responsible for handicapped access to
the city activities. The coordinator shall attempt to correct the matter
immediately, if possible, or provide a written response within five days as to
what action will be taken, and the deadline for such action.
   (B)   Step two. If the complainant is not satisfied with the response of the
coordinator or if no action is taken, the written grievance shall be submitted
to the Mayor. The Mayor shall meet with the complainant and/or his or her
representative to discuss the problem informally. Documentation of the meeting
shall be prepared and maintained in the local government’s files. The Mayor
shall provide a written response within 15 days of the informal meeting as to
the action to be taken and the deadline for completion.
   (C)   Step three.
      (1)   If the Mayor’s response is not satisfactory or if no action is
taken, the complainant may take the grievance to the City Council. A hearing
may be requested by submitting the written request to the Mayor. The grievance
shall be brought before the City Council no later than the next regularly
scheduled meeting. A special called meeting of the City Council may be made if
necessary to discuss the grievance.
      (2)   In discussing the grievance, the complainant may designate any
person of his or her choice to appear with him or her or for him or her to
participate in the discussion. Written documentation of the discussion shall be
maintained in the city records.
      (3)   The City Council shall issue a written decision on the matter
within 15 days. The decision shall be the final procedure for the complainant
at the local level.
(Prior Code, § 39.04) (Ord. passed 1-6-1986)
**** AMERICAN DISABILITY ACT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ****
§ 39.30 PURPOSE OF RULES.
   The rules set forth in this subchapter shall be construed to protect the
substantive rights of interested persons to meet appropriate due process
standards, and to assure that the city complies with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and implementing
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 39.15) (Ord. 1994, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 39.31 ADOPTION OF GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city has adopted an internal grievance procedure providing for
prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging any action prohibited by
the U.S. Department of Justice regulations implementing Title II of the
Americans with Disabilities Act, being 28 C.F.R. § 35.
   (B)   Title II states, in part, that “no otherwise qualified disabled
individual shall, solely by reason of such disability, be excluded from the
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination”
in programs or activities sponsored by a public entity.
(Prior Code, § 39.16) (Ord. 1994, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 39.32 FILING OF COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints should be addressed to: The ADA Coordinator, City Hall, 207 East
Street, Edmonton, KY 42129, phone number 270/432-2811, who has been designated
to coordinate ADA compliance efforts.
   (A)   A complaint should be filed in writing or verbally, contain the name
and address of the person filing it, and briefly describe the alleged violation
of the regulations.
   (B)   A complaint should be filed within 30 days after the complainant
becomes aware of the alleged violation. (Processing of allegations of
discrimination which occurred before this grievance procedure was in place will
be considered on a case-by-case basis.)
(Prior Code, § 39.17) (Ord. 1994, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 39.33 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   An investigation, as may be appropriate, shall follow a filing of
complaint. The investigation shall be conducted by the Mayor and the ADA
Coordinator.
   (B)   These rules contemplate informal but thorough investigations,
affording all interested persons and their representatives, if any, an
opportunity to submit evidence relevant to a complaint.
   (C)   Under the Department of Justice regulations, the city need not process
complaints from applicants for employment or from applicants for admission to
post-secondary educational institutions.
(Prior Code, § 39.18) (Ord. 1994, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 39.34 DETERMINATION OF VALIDITY; DESCRIPTION OF RESOLUTION.
   A written determination as to the validity of the complaint and a
description of the resolution, if any, shall be issued by the Mayor and the ADA
Coordinator and a copy forwarded to the complainant no later than 30 days after
its filing.
(Prior Code, § 39.19) (Ord. 1994, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 39.35 MAINTENANCE OF FILES AND RECORDS.
   The ADA Coordinator shall maintain the files and records of the city
relating to the complaints filed.
(Prior Code, § 39.20) (Ord. 1994, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 39.36 REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION.
   The complainant can request a reconsideration of the case in instances where
he or she is dissatisfied with the resolution. The request for reconsideration
should be made within 15 days to the Mayor, the ADA Coordinator, and the ADA
Compliance Committee.
(Prior Code, § 39.21) (Ord. 1994, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 39.37 PURSUIT OF OTHER REMEDIES.
   The right of a person to a prompt and equitable resolution of the complaint
filed hereunder shall not be impaired by the person’s pursuit of other remedies
such as the filing of an ADA complaint with the responsible federal department
or agency. Use of this grievance procedure is not a prerequisite to the pursuit
of other remedies.
(Prior Code, § 39.22) (Ord. 1994, passed 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 40: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Generally
   
40.01   Planning Commission
   
40.02   Industrial Development Authority
   
40.03   Volunteer Fire Department
Police Department
   
40.15   Establishment
   
40.16   Police Chief; police officers
   
40.17   Police officers shift differential
911 Department
   
40.30   Dispatch employees shift differential
**** GENERALLY ****
§ 40.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Appointment; membership. The Planning Commission shall consist of the
Mayor as an ex officio member and five other members.
   (B)   Term of office. Ex officio members shall serve for the term of their
elective office. Appointed citizen members shall serve for a period of four
years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only. All
members of the Commission shall serve without compensation except that, if the
City Council deems it advisable, the secretary may receive such compensation as
may be fixed from time to time by said City Council and provided for in the
appropriate ordinance.
   (C)   Procedure. Immediately following their appointment, the members of the
Planning Commission shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem
necessary, and adopt and later change and alter the rules and regulations of
organization and procedure consistent with city ordinances and state laws. The
Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open
at all times to public inspection. The Commission shall also file an annual
report with the Mayor and City Council setting forth its transactions and
recommendations.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive plan
of public improvements, looking to the present and future development and
growth of the city. Such a plan after its adoption by the City Council will be
known as the official plan. Such plan shall include reasonable requirements in
reference to streets, alleys, and public grounds within the corporate limits
and in contiguous territory outside of and distant not more than five miles
from such limits, and not included in any municipality, such requirements to be
effective whenever such lands shall be subdivided after the adoption of such
plan;
      (2)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council from time to time,
such changes in the plan or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary by the
City Council or by the Plan Commission;
      (3)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council from time to time
plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of such
official plan;
      (4)   To give aid to the city officials, charged with the direction of
projects for improvements, embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan;
      (5)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding;
      (6)   To cooperate with municipal or regional plan commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local plan program and to assure harmonious
and integrated plan for the area; and
      (7)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by
statute.
   (E)   Improvements. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall furnish the Planning
Commission for its consideration a copy of all ordinances, plans, and data
relative to public improvements of any nature. The Planning Commission may
report in relation thereto if it deems a report necessary or advisable, for the
consideration of the City Council.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 40.02 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Edmonton Metcalfe County Industrial Development Authority is
hereby established pursuant to its authority in KRS 154.50-326 with the county.
   (B)   There shall be six members of the board, three of which are to be
appointed by the County Judge/Executive and three of which are to be appointed
by the Mayor. The terms of appointment shall be a four-year term with one each
to be chosen by the County Judge/Executive and the Mayor respectively.
(Ord. 2008-10, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 40.03 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Volunteer Fire Department is hereby established and shall be designated
under the classification as a KRS Chapter 95 fire department subject to all
rights, duties, and powers under KRS Chapter 95. The city hereby adopts same
with all intents, purposes, and obligations thereto.
(Ord. 2017-18-10, passed 5-7-2018)
**** POLICE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 40.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department as organized by the state
statutes and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1999-08, passed 10-4-1999)
§ 40.16 POLICE CHIEF; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and regular
police officers as may be authorized by the City Council.
   (B)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor at will, and may be removed by the Mayor at will, pursuant to the state
statutes, except as tenure and terms of employment are protected by statute,
ordinance, or contract.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as Police Chief or a regular
police officer unless such person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth.
   (D)   Qualifications, training, and compensation shall be set forth in the
personnel classification and compensation plan and the state statutes.
(Ord. 1999-08, passed 10-4-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications, see KRS 95.440
§ 40.17 POLICE OFFICERS SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL.
   Any and all employees of the Police Department are entitled to a night shift
differential when the majority of hours worked during a regularly scheduled
shift occur from 6:00 p.m. through 6:00 a.m. Each employee will receive $0.50
per hour for all hours worked and $0.75 for any overtime hours worked. The
night shift differential is paid for the entire shift when the majority of
hours fall within the specified period.
(Ord. 2023-24-06, passed 6-6-2024)
**** 911 DEPARTMENT ****
§ 40.30 DISPATCH EMPLOYEES SHIFT DIFFERENTIAL.
   Any and all employees of the City 911 Dispatch is entitled to a night shift
differential when the majority of hours worked during a regularly scheduled
work week occur from 3:00 p.m. through 7:00 a.m. Each employee will receive an
additional $1 per hour for all hours worked or an additional $1.50 for any
overtime hours worked.
(Ord. 2025-26-04, passed 2-2-2026)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   UTILITY FEES
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Dumping of waste on right-of-way leading to city dump prohibited
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City not part of sanitation district; maintains control of sewer and
drainage systems, see §
51.005
§ 50.01 DUMPING OF WASTE ON RIGHT-OF-WAY LEADING TO CITY DUMP PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to help in maintaining a better city
dump for the citizens and residents of the city.
   (B)   All waste products, materials, or trash and rubbish taken to the city
dump shall be dumped or placed at the designated places, and anyone who fails
to comply with this section and dumps or places any waste products, materials,
or trash and rubbish upon the right-of-way, road or, passway leading to and at
the said city dump shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
50.99.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 24, passed 12-2-1954)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of §
50.01 of this chapter shall be charged with a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not more than $500 and costs.
(Prior Code, § 50.99)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Abbreviations
   
51.004   References in chapter
   
51.005   City not part of sanitation district; maintains control of sewer and
drainage systems
   
51.006   Damaging POTW prohibited
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.020   Mandatory sewer connections
   
51.021   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
51.022   Compliance with local, state, and federal laws
   
51.023   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
51.024   Substances which interfere with POTW; discharge prohibited
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.035   Public sewer not available
   
51.036   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.050   Permits
   
51.051   Prohibited connections
   
51.052   Design and installation
   
51.053   Inspection
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
51.065   Restricted discharges
   
51.066   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
51.067   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.068   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
51.069   Protection from accidental discharges
   
51.070   State requirements
   
51.071   City’s right of revision
   
51.072   Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
51.085   Wastewater dischargers; permit required
   
51.086   Wastewater contribution permits
   
51.087   Permit modifications
   
51.088   Permit conditions
   
51.089   Permit duration
   
51.090   Permit transfer
   
51.091   Reporting requirements for permittee
   
51.092   Permit violations
   
51.093   Monitoring facilities
   
51.094   Inspection and sampling
   
51.095   Pretreatment
   
51.096   Significant noncompliance; annual publication
   
51.097   Maintenance and availability of records
   
51.098   Confidential information
Fees
   
51.110   Purpose
   
51.111   Charges and fees
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.125   Right to enter premises
   
51.126   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
51.127   Access to easements
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.140   Remedies for noncompliance; suspension of service or permit
   
51.141   Notice of violation
   
51.142   Administrative orders; fines
   
51.143   Show cause hearing
   
51.144   Revocation of permit
   
51.145   Misrepresentation; falsifying documents
   
51.146   Judicial action
 
   
51.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public Works Superintendent, see §
31.40
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system of the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and
the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   Provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city publicly-
owned treatment works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the Water
and Sewer Commission shall administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.001) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the State Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      (1)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of a user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      (2)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration in milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
51.050 through
51.053 of this chapter.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   CITY. The City of Edmonton; its City Council; or the Commission, Board, or
other entity having responsibility for the POTW.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, and fecal
coliform bacteria, plus any additional pollutants identified in the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designated to treat such pollutants and,
in fact, does treat such pollutants to the degree required by the POTW’s NPDES/
KPDES permit.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the APPROVAL AUTHORITY defined hereinabove; or
the City Council if the city has an approved pretreatment program under the
provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling, or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DILUTION. Any wastewater not generated by a process regulated for the
specific pollutant by a categorical standard under 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the water of the commonwealth.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the proper
operation of the collection system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS as
defined in this section.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes as
distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous, or undesirable matter from normal wastes while
permitting normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer system or
drainage system by gravity. INTERCEPTOR as defined herein is commonly referred
to as a grease, oil, or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city’s
NPDES/KPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.
§§ 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.),
or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER. A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex, or where there is any combination of business and residence in the
same building or complex.
   NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or a
permit issued by the commonwealth under this authority and referred to as
KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source, if
such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard, provided that:
      (1)   The building, structure, or facility or installation is constructed
at a site on which no other source is located;
      (2)   It totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes
the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes are substantially
independent of an existing source at the same site.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. All annual operation and maintenance
expenses including replacement related directly to operating and maintaining
the sewage works as shown by annual audit.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by context.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked, or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes,
or process changes by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on a
significant user.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority
of § 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half-inch in any dimension.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the city.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city’s POTW.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the PUBLIC SEWER shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on
private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. DOMESTIC OR SANITARY WASTE shall
mean the liquid or water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
and institutions as distinct from industrial sewage. The terms SEWAGE and
WASTEWATER are used interchangeably.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM or WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and POTW.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER USER CHARGE. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, of such works.
   SIGNIFICANT USER. Any user of the city’s wastewater disposal system who:
      (1)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (3)   Has in his or her wastes, toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to §
307 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, or state statutes and rules;
      (4)   Is found by the city, state control agency, or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing users, on the wastewater treatment
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions
generated by the system; or
      (5)   Is subject to a categorical pretreatment standard(s) under 40
C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flow rate during normal operation or adversely affects the POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
“Standard Industrial Classification Manual” issued by the Executive Office of
the President, U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater,” published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in the Congressional Record, 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent or Director of Sewage Works of the city
or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative, as designated by the
City Council.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter that either floats on
the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids,
and that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in “Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater” and referred to as
nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provisions of § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §
1317(a)), or other acts.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes, or permits contributions of
wastewater into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. SANITARY OR DOMESTIC WASTES
shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings, and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §§
51.085 through
51.098.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, or public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 51.002) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
ADMI   American Dye Manufacturers Institute
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CWA    Clean Water Act of 1979, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
l      Liter
mg     Milligrams
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
KPDES  Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW   Publicly-owned treatment works
SIC    Standard Industrial Classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Prior Code, § 51.003) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.004 REFERENCES IN CHAPTER.
   References are made to 40 C.F.R. part 136 throughout this chapter when
testing procedures are mentioned. With the recent requirement for the closed
cup flashpoint test for detection of a possible fire/explosion hazard,
references must now include 40 C.F.R. part 261 in addition to 40 C.F.R. part
136.
(Prior Code, § 51.004) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.005 CITY NOT PART OF SANITATION DISTRICT; MAINTAINS CONTROL OF SEWER AND
DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The City Council, on behalf of the city, pursuant to all applicable
provisions of KRS 220.135, as amended by the General Assembly of the
commonwealth, on or about April 1, 1994, by this section expresses its
intention not to become a part of any sanitation district and to retain
ownership, control of, and responsibility for its sanitary sewer system and its
drainage system.
   (B)   The city, by the adoption of this section, acknowledges that it shall
be solely responsible for compliance with applicable regulations promulgated by
the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet.
(Prior Code, § 51.005) (Ord. passed 8-31-1994)
§ 51.006 DAMAGING POTW PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is part of the POTW. Any person(s) violating this section shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of criminal mischief.
(Prior Code, § 51.006) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.030
**** USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS ****
§ 51.020 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A) above, except as provided for in §§
51.035 and
51.036.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer system in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and removed.
(Prior Code, § 51.015) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city or into any
sewer which connects to the storm sewer system of the city, any objectionable
wastewater or industrial wastes.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within
the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment or management has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   No provision of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the
owner of a discharge to any natural outlet of the responsibility for complying
with applicable state and federal regulations governing such discharge.
(Prior Code, § 51.016) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977
(both acts being located at 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), and subsequent
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 51.017) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged through any
leak, defect, or connection any unpolluted waters, such as stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or cooling water to any sanitary
sewer, building sewer, building drain, or building plumbing. The Superintendent
or his or her representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the
inside or outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects
to building sewers, and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying
such water to the building sewer. No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge
by manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal
of such water.
   (B)   Stormwater, groundwater, and all other unpolluted drainage may be
discharged to such sewers as are used as storm sewers approved by the
Superintendent. Unpolluted cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, on approval of the Superintendent to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
   (C)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such source.
(Prior Code, § 51.018) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.024 SUBSTANCES WHICH INTERFERE WITH POTW; DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of
a POTW, whether or not the user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements. A user shall not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall a wastestream exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21, prohibited materials include, but are not
limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohol, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides, and any other substances which have a closed cup flashpoint
of 140°F (60°C) or less, and any substances which the city, state, or EPA has
notified the user is a fire hazard to the sanitary sewer system;
   (B)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitations set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. A
toxic pollutant shall include, but shall not be limited to, any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, or personnel of the POTW;
   (D)   Any slug load or pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD and the like) released at a flow or concentration that will cause
interference;
   (E)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings,
entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or
ground, spent lime, stone or marble dust, grass clippings, spent grains, spent
hops, waste paper, gas, asphalt residues, unground garbage, residues from
refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, or glass grinding or
polishing wastes;
   (F)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removable in the POTW, but
in no case wastewater with a color at the introduction into the POTW that
exceeds 300 ADMI units;
   (G)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 104°F (40°C);
   (H)   Any wastewater at the introduction to the POTW with a temperature
which exceeds 150°F (65°C);
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance or repair;
   (J)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum to be unsuitable for reclamation
and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the POTW is
pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act;
any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.),
the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substance Control Act
(15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.), or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used;
   (K)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
and/or sludge disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards;
   (L)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the City Council
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations; or
   (M)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 51.019) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
**** PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL ****
§ 51.035 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
51.020 through
51.024, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer system is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of applicable local and state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
   (D)   Industries with current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted
discharge points provided they are in compliance with the conditions of said
permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.030) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local and state regulations. Before commencement
of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first
obtain a written permit issued by the Superintendent after approval of the
system by the local and state authorities if required. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the City Water and Sewer Commission
or City Council which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local
and state authorities, if required. They shall be allowed to inspect the work
at any stage of construction, and in any event the applicant for the permit
shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent, Saturdays,
Sundays, and holidays excepted.
(Prior Code, § 51.031) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
**** BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS ****
§ 51.050 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required:
         (a)   For residential; and
         (b)   For service to commercial and industrial establishments.
      (2)   In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. Applications for service
to commercial and industrial establishments shall be required to furnish
information about all waste-producing activities and all wastewater
characteristics and constituents. The permit application shall be supplemented
by any plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the Superintendent. Details regarding commercial and industrial
permits include, but are not limited to, those required by this chapter. Permit
and inspection fees shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   (B)   Users shall notify the city of any new introduction of wastewater
constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of the
wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW.
   (C)   No authorized person(s) shall uncover, plug, or make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permission from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 51.045) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make any connection of roof downspouts, basement wall
seepage, or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other
sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain,
which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
Any such connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter
shall be completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter. The owners of any building sewers having such
connections, leaks, or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of
such sources. Pipes, sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface
water shall be separate from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of
water without presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to
a public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Floor, basement, or crawl space drains which are lower than ground
surfaces surrounding the buildings shall not be connected to the building
sanitary sewer. No sanitary inlet which is lower than six inches above the top
of the lowest of the two adjacent public sanitary sewer manholes shall be
connected by direct drainage to the building sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 51.046) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway. The sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new buildings
using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers. If
additional sewer customers are added to the old building sewers, additional
sewer tap fees shall be charged even though no new sewer tap is actually made
into the city system.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer’s
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest revision,
unglazed clay sewer pipe, ASTM C-261, latest revision, vitrified clay sewer
pipe, ASTM C-700, latest revision, or ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-
151 cement lined, and shall meet requirements of the State Plumbing Code, being
found in KRS Chapter 318 and 815 KAR. Joints shall be as set out hereinafter.
Any part of the building sewer that is located within five feet of a water
service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron
pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one foot deeper in the ground than
the water service line. In the latter case, vitrified clay pipe may be used.
Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may be required by the city where the
building sewer is exposed to damage or stoppage by tree roots. Cast iron soil
pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be used in filled or unstable ground, in areas
where the cover over the building sewer is less than three feet, or in areas
where the sewer is subject to vehicular or other external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In general, the building sewer shall be of the same
size as the service branch, but in no event less than six inches in diameter
except in case of pipe in five-foot or longer lengths or with machined joints,
with which it shall not be less than four inches. The slope of the building
sewer shall in no event be less than one-eighth-inch per foot. In the absence
of local code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and “WPCF Manual
of Practice No. 9” shall apply.
   (F)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to within three feet of any
bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford 24 inches of cover over pipe except where exposed to vehicular traffic.
Portions of the building sewer subject to vehicular traffic shall have a
minimum cover of 36 inches, or be encased in a six-inch envelope of concrete.
The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straighter alignment
insofar as possible.
   (G)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by the city.
   (H)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and all other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a
manner satisfactory to the city.
   (I)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above
basement floor or in a separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the city and all such
trenches shall be kept open until the pipe has been inspected, tested, and
approved by the city. Except where bends are supplied, trenches shall be
straight in direction and grade to accommodate prefabricated joints. Trenches
shall be at least 20 inches wide opposite the centerline of the pipe. Building
sanitary sewers laid in undisturbed ground must be laid on at least six inches
of pea gravel, sand, or other approved grillage to support the pipe. The trench
shall be filled with the same approved grillage on each side of the pipe and
six inches over same. Building sewers laid in mud or filled ground shall be
embedded to lower quadrant with at least a four-inch concrete pad below the
invert or with such other support that may be considered necessary. Backfill
shall be carefully tamped in and around pipe in not over four-inch layers to
the top of the pipe for proper support. Backfill shall be solidly tamped above
the pipe and hand-placed up to 18 inches above the pipe. No backfill shall be
placed over the pipe until the pipe-laying has been inspected by the city or
its duly-authorized agent.
   (K)   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
Joints for cast iron soil pipe and fittings with hubs and plain end spigots
shall be made with caulked lead and oakum as specified in Chapter 4, ASA A40.8,
or by using positive double-seal elastomeric compression-type gaskets
conforming to ASTM C-564. Service pipe shall be joined with service gaskets and
extra heavy pipe with extra-heavy gaskets. All joints between vitrified clay
pipe and other approved pipe shall be made with an approved prefabricated
rubber or plastic material conforming to ASTM Specification C-425, latest
revision, and installed clean and uninjured by handling or weather according to
manufacturer’s direction, completely homed into place. The vitrified clay sewer
pipe shall be jointed with compressed watertight rubber rings meeting ASTM
Specification D-1869, latest revision, and installed clean, according to
manufacturer’s directions. The ductile iron pipe shall be joined together with
watertight rubber gaskets in accordance with the manufacturer’s directions. The
PVC pipe joints shall conform to ASTM D-3212, latest revision, and elastomeric
gaskets to ASTM F477.
   (L)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no properly-located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer, and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant of the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer shall be made, and the saddle made secure and
water-tight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose.
A wye and H-bend fitting shall be installed at the property line between the
public sewer and the building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
clean-out and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser shall be inserted in this fitting
and brought flush with the surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type of
joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion
of ground or surface water.
   (M)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed to meet or exceed
the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
   (N)   All persons working on city sewers with a cleaning rod must use an
approved type rod in cleaning sewer connections to city sewers.
(Prior Code, § 51.047) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative. All connections shall be made
gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing.
      (2)   Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
   (B)   (1)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch
at the public sewer connection or low pressure air tested per ASTM C-828-08 or
latest revision, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after connection at
both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and backfilled at
least to the top of the pipe and if backfill is completed, within two weeks
after completion of backfill. At time of test, any openings into the building
drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any leakage of
smoke from the building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be located
at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage. When
smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed and a
permanent watertight plug shall be placed in the branch of test wye-branch and
carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the top of
the branch.
      (2)   The City Council or Water and Sewer Commission, if appointed, shall
determine the method of testing to be performed.
(Prior Code, § 51.048) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
**** POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS ****
§ 51.065 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   General conditions.
      (1)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentration or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process,
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The city may set additional limitations or limitations more
stringent than those established in the regulations below if in his or her
opinion such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the city
shall give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the
wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   Restricted discharges. The following discharges are restricted:
      (1)   Wastewater containing more than 25 mg/l of oil, non-biodegradable
cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin;
      (2)   Wastewater from industrial plants or commercial businesses
containing floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether emulsified or not, in excess
of 75 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures of 32°F to 150°F (0°C to 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a three-fourths horsepower motor
or greater shall be subject to review and approval;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the city;
      (5)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (6)   Any water or waste which by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing cadmium, chromium, copper, cyanide,
iron, lead, nickel, zinc, or similar objectionable or toxic substances to such
degree that they inhibit or damage the wastewater treatment processes, or tend
to concentrate in the wastewater sludge to such a level that prevents the use
of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or pass through the treatment process
unremoved and at such concentration that causes a violation of effluent
limitations of water quality standards which are or may be established by state
and federal agencies having jurisdiction;
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (9)   Any water or waste which has characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, or a shorter period composite sample if more representative
which exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater parameter
concentrations:
 
Parameter Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharge
BOD       250 mg/l
NH3-N     25 mg/l
TSS       250 mg/l
 
      (10)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of
any wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system:
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter               Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic, total          0.05
Barium, total           5.00
Beryllium, total        0.50
Boron, total            1.00
Cadmium, total          0.02
Chloride, total         1000.00
Chromium, hexavalent    0.17
Chromium, total         0.34
Color                   300 ADMI units*
Copper, total           0.11
Cyanide, amenable       0.02
Cyanide, total          0.05
Dissolved solids, total 1500.00
Fluoride                3.14
Iron, total             8.75
Lead, total             0.43
Magnesium, total        56.68
Manganese, total        1.43
Mercury, total          0.008
Nickel, total           0.67
Phenols                 0.50
Selenium, total         0.40
Silver, total           0.05
Sulfate, total          500.00
Sulfide                 5.00
Zinc, total             1.24
Notes to Table:
*American Dye Manufacturers Institute (ADMI)
 
      (11)   Any waste or wastewater classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.,
without, at least, a 60-day prior notification of such discharge to the
Superintendent of the POTW. This notification must include the name of the
waste, EPA hazardous waste number, type of discharge, volume/mass of discharge,
and time of occurrence. The Superintendent may deny or condition the discharge
at any time.
(Prior Code, § 51.060) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any other pollutant specific
limitation developed by the city or state. Dilution may be permitted to
pretreatment of compatible wastes if provided for in said user’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.061) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.067 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal. The city may require
reporting of such information for their review. Any removal and hauling of the
collected materials not performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by
currently-licensed waste disposal firms. Interceptors shall also comply with
applicable regulations of the County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.062) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.068 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly-owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Amendments of
1972), being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and later amendments, all pretreatment
standards promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for new and
existing industrial dischargers to public sewer systems are hereby made a part
of this chapter. Any industrial waste discharge which violates these EPA
pretreatment standards shall be in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   When pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be continuously maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or
her expense.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit, or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste, or other batch liquid waste and who wishes
to discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first obtain
permission for such discharge from the Superintendent. All persons receiving
such permission shall abide by all applicable provisions of this chapter, and
any other special provisions that may be established by the city as necessary
for the proper operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (1)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid into any manhole
or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or other
facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purposes.
      (2)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established and approved by the city.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with County Health Department, state, or federal
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 51.063) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.069 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Requirements. Each significant user shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost
and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide this protection shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be
approved by the city before construction of the facility. All existing users
shall complete such a plan within 90 days after the effective date of this
chapter. Construction shall be completed within 120 days of approval of plans
and notification by the Superintendent. No user who commences contribution to
the POTW after the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to
introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures have
been approved by the city. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the
user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In any
case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to
immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification
shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume,
and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following any accidental discharges,
the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other
applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § 51.064) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.070 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.065) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.071 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish by majority vote more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to
comply with the objectives presented in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.066) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.072 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the Federal Standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The
Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(Prior Code, § 51.067) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
**** PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 51.085 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a city permit to any natural
outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city,
and/or to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the city in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.080) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit requirements. All significant users proposing to connect or to
contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant users
connected to or contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution
permit within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution
permit shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form
prescribed by the city, and accompanied by a permit fee. Existing users shall
apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 30 days after the effective
date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply for a wastewater
contribution permit at least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing to
the POTW. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location, if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the “Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972,” as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(f) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variation, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical, and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location,
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by city, state, or federal pretreatment standards,
and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being
met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment is
required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule must be acceptable to the city;
         (b)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards; and
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the users to return the construction to the schedule
established;
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   A copy of the industry’s written “Environmental Control Program;”
and
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the city may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to terms
and conditions provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 51.081) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.087 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Within nine months of the promulgation of National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to
the standards shall be revised to require compliance with the standards within
the time frame prescribed by the standards. Where a user, subject to National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater contribution permit as required, the user shall apply for the
wastewater contribution permit within 90 days after the promulgation of the
applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standard. In addition, the user
with an existing wastewater contribution permit shall submit to the
Superintendent within 90 days after the promulgation of an applicable Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standard the information required by this chapter.
   (B)   Where an effluent from an industrial process is mixed prior to
treatment with wastewaters other than those generated by the regulated process,
fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge permit by
the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be applied to the mixed
effluent. These alternative limits shall be calculated using the combined
wastestream formula and/or flow-weighted average formula given in 40 C.F.R. §
403.6(e). Where the effluent limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant that may be
discharged per day or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating
effluent permit limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be
subject to all permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(c) and must fully comply with these alternative limits. All categorical
industrial users subject to production-based standards must report production
rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be calculated if
necessary. The categorical industrial user must notify the Superintendent 30
days in advance of any change in production levels that might effect the flow
or other data used to calculate the effluent limits in the discharge permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.082) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.088 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Wastewater contribution permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions
of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges, and fees
established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
   (B)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for test, and
reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports
(see §
51.091);
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining for a minimum of three
years plant records relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the city,
and affording city access thereto;
   (I)   Requirements for notification to the city of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
   (K)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling, and testing performed at the direction of the
Superintendent and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is in
compliance with said permit; and
   (L)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.083) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.089 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed three
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year, or may be stated
to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a
minimum of 120 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The
terms and conditions of the permit shall be subject to modification by the city
during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in
§§
51.065 through
51.072 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Prior Code, § 51.084) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.090 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater contribution permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater contribution permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation without the approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or
user shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
   (A)   Each significant industrial user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental and slug discharges
of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s
own expense. Once every two years, the Superintendent will determine whether
each significant industrial user needs to develop a plan to control slug
discharges. If the Superintendent decides that a slug control plan is needed,
the plan shall contain the following:
      (1)   A description of discharge practices;
      (2)   A description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for notifying the POTW; and
      (4)   Prevention procedures for spills.
   (B)   In case of all possible actual accidental and/or slug discharges, it
is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the POTW
of the incident. The notification shall include the location of discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions taken.
(Prior Code, § 51.085) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.091 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Compliance data reporting. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
user, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional pretreatment and time schedule is necessary
to bring the user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the user.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant industrial users who discharge into the POTW shall
submit to the Superintendent during the months of June and December, unless
required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the wastewater
contribution permit, a report indicating the nature and concentration of such
pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of all
daily flow. At the discretion of the Superintendent and in consideration of
such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, and the
like, the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above
reports are to be submitted.
      (2)   The city may impose mass limitations on users where their
imposition is appropriate. In such cases, the report required by division (A)
above shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards
in the effluent of the user. These reports shall contain the results of
sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and
concentration, or production and mass where requested by the Superintendent of
pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment
standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable
pretreatment standard. All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory
acceptable to the city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with
procedures established by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of
the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1314(g), and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and
amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
      (3)   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA Publication,
“Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants,” April, 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (C)   Submission of sampling and analysis. All sampling analyses done in
accordance with approved U.S. EPA procedures by the significant industrial user
during a reporting period shall be submitted to the Superintendent, regardless
of whether or not that analysis was required by the user’s discharge permit.
(Prior Code, § 51.086) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.092 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within 24
hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of the violation, the parameter violated, and the amount in
exceedance. Within 30 days of first becoming aware of a permit violation, the
significant industrial user must resample for the parameter(s) violated and
submit this sample analysis to the Superintendent, unless the Superintendent,
on behalf of the city, conducts monitoring of this parameter within that 30-day
period.
(Prior Code, § 51.087) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.093 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate at the
user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and
flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage system. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in a public right-of-way. The
Superintendent shall review and approve the location, plans, and specifications
for such monitoring facilities, and may require them to be constructed to
provide for the separate monitoring and sampling of industrial waste and
sanitary sewage flows.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near a sampling manhole or facility to
allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans, and specifications. The significant industrial
user must receive the approval of the Superintendent before changing the
sampling point and/or monitoring facilities to be used in all required
sampling.
(Prior Code, § 51.088) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.094 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, record examination, or in the performance of any of
his or her duties.
   (B)   The city, approval authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up
on the user’s property such devices as are necessary to metering operations.
Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into his or her premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements for his or her security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city, approval
authority, and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes
of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 51.089) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.095 PRETREATMENT.
   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply
with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all Federal Categorical
Pretreatment Standards within the time limitations as specified by the federal
pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a
level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be
acceptable to the city before construction of the facility. The review of such
plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
(Prior Code, § 51.090) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.096 SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE; ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall annually publish in the largest daily newspaper of
local circulation, a list of the users which were in significant noncompliance
with any pretreatment requirements or standards at least once during the 12
previous months. The notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions
taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months.
   (B)   Significant noncompliance is defined as any significant violation that
meets one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Results in the exercise of emergency authority by the
Superintendent;
      (2)   Remains uncorrected 45 days after notice of noncompliance is given;
      (3)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately; and
      (4)   Wastewater violations:
         (a)   Chronic violations - 66% or more of all measurements taken
during a six-month period exceed, by any magnitude the daily maximum limit or
the monthly average limit for the same pollutant parameter;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations - 33% or more of all
measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a six-month period equal
or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit
multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
         (c)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the
Superintendent believes has caused alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass-through or has endangered the health of the
POTW personnel or the public;
         (d)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health or
to the environment or resulting in the Superintendent’s use of his or her
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply
with schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining
final compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide required report within 30 days of the due
date; or
         (g)   Any violation or group of violations which the Superintendent
determines will adversely effect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Prior Code, § 51.091) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.097 MAINTENANCE AND AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS.
   (A)   All records relating to the pretreatment program of the city shall be
made available to officials of the U.S. EPA or approval authority upon request.
   (B)   All records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(O)(2).
(Prior Code, § 51.092) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.098 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, and monitoring programs and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/
KPDES permit, sludge disposal system permit, or the pretreatment program;
provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics shall not be recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the city as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the city
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Prior Code, § 51.093) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
**** FEES ****
§ 51.110 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW
for the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable
charges or fees shall be set forth in the city’s schedule of charges and fees.
(Prior Code, § 51.105) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.111 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of pollutants otherwise
subject to federal pretreatment standards; and
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees are related solely to the matters covered by this chapter
and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.106) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer rates, see
Chapter 53
**** POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS ****
§ 51.125 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharges to the public sewer
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.115) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.126 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives are authorized to obtain
information concerning character, strength, and quantity of industrial wastes
which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system.
(Prior Code, § 51.116) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.127 ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair, and maintenance of any portions of the wastewater facilities lying
within said easement.
   (B)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 51.117) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
**** ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 51.140 REMEDIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE; SUSPENSION OF SERVICE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   The city through the Pretreatment Coordinator and the General Manager,
to ensure compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 C.F.R.
Subchapter N, parts 401 through 471 and 401 KAR 5:055, § 9 may take the
following enforcement steps against users in noncompliance with this chapter.
The remedies available to the Pretreatment Coordinator and the General Manager
include injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate
discontinuance of discharges and/or water service, and the publishing of the
list of significant violators annually. The enforcement authority shall be
vested in the Pretreatment Coordinator and the General Manager of the POTW or
their designee.
   (B)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW, or
causes the city to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed
necessary including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW system, or endangerment to any individuals. The
city shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge.
A detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the cause of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 51.130) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.141 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
(Prior Code, § 51.131) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.142 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS; FINES.
   (A)   Any person who after receiving a notice of violation, shall continue
to discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standard or
requirement or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator, shall be
ordered to appear before the Superintendent. At said appearance, a compliance
schedule will be given to the violating user and, if deemed appropriate by the
Superintendent, and administrative fine case-by-case basis which shall consider
the type, severity, duration, and number of violations, severity of impact on
the POTW impact on human health, user’s economic benefit from the violation,
past history of the user, and good-faith efforts made by the user. The fine
shall be a nonarbitrary but appropriate amount.
   (B)   Users desiring to dispute such fines shall file with the
Superintendent a request for the city to reconsider the fine within ten days of
being notified of the fine. The city shall convene a hearing on the matter
within 15 days of receiving such a request from the user.
   (C)   The administrative order may take any of the following four forms.
      (1)   Consent order. The Superintendent is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the industrial user responsible for the
noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time period also
specified in the order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as
all other administrative orders.
      (2)   Compliance order. When the Superintendent finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or permit or order
issued hereunder, he or she may issue an order to the industrial user
responsible for the violation directing that following a specified time period,
sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances have been installed, and are properly
operated.
      (3)   Other requirements. Orders may also contain such other requirements
as might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance,
including the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-
monitoring, and management practices.
      (4)   Cease and desist order. When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and
desist all such violations to the user and direct those persons in
noncompliance to:
         (a)   Comply forthwith; and
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
(Prior Code, § 51.132) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.143 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The city may order any user who causes or allows an authorized discharge to
show cause before the city why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of a
hearing to be held by the city regarding the violation, the reasons why the
action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user
to show cause before the city why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
(Prior Code, § 51.133) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
§ 51.144 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her
permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises of the purpose
of inspection or monitoring;
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit; or
      (5)   Tampering with or knowingly altering the city’s or user’s
monitoring equipment.
   (B)   Any user who violates the above conditions shall be liable to the city
for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of such
violation.
(Prior Code, § 51.134) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.145 MISREPRESENTATION; FALSIFYING DOCUMENTS.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation, or
certification of any application record, report, plan, or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater
contribution permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty provided in §
51.999.
(Prior Code, § 51.135) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.146 JUDICIAL ACTION.
   If any person(s) discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into
the city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, discharge permit, any order of the Pretreatment Coordinator and the
General Manager of the city, or federal or state pretreatment requirements, the
city may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in
the appropriate court of this jurisdiction. In addition to the penalties
provided herein, the city may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs,
court reporter’s fees, and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at
law against the person(s) found to have violated this chapter or the orders,
rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 51.136) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Any user who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, a discharge permit, or other order issued hereunder, shall be guilty
of a violation of this chapter and shall be liable to the Superintendent for a
civil penalty of at least $1,000 per violation for each day on which the
violation occurs. Each day in which such violation occurs shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any person who will continue any violation of any provision of this
chapter beyond the time limit provided for shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount of at least $500 for
each violation. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may
recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court reporter’s fees, and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules regulations, and
permits issued hereunder.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
51.145 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be punished
by a fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 51.999) (Ord. 4-89, passed 4-10-1989; Ord. passed 5-6-1991)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Dead-end lines
Water Shortages
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Declaration of water shortage advisory
   
52.17   Declaration of water shortage alert
   
52.18   Declaration of water shortage emergency
   
52.19   Shortage water rates
   
52.20   Regulations
   
52.21   Violations; notice; hearing; reconnection fee
Cross-Connection Prevention
   
52.35   Purpose and authority
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Requirements
 
   
52.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 52.01 DEAD-END LINES.
   Any person or entity request for a line to be constructed that results in a
dead-end line which must be purged then, all meters on said line shall be
required to pay for all water utilized by the purging of that line, which shall
be added to the water bill for the month of said purge.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 6-11-2014)
**** WATER SHORTAGES ****
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the city’s water
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the
case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   OTHER SOURCES OF WATER. Water that has not been introduced by the city into
its water distribution system.
   RAW WATER SUPPLIES. All water potentially available to persons in the city.
   TREATED WATER. Water that has been introduced by the city into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale. Uses of TREATED WATER
are classified as follows.
      (1)   Essential water uses (Class 1). The following uses of water, listed
by site or user type, are essential:
         (a)   Domestic. Water necessary to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation;
         (b)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation;
         (c)   Water care facilities. Sales for domestic use where not
reasonably available elsewhere; and
         (d)   Public use.
            1.   Firefighting; and
            2.   Health and public protection purposes, as specifically
approved by health officials and the municipal governing body.
      (2)   Socially or economically important uses of water (Class 2). The
following uses of water, listed by site or user type, are socially or
economically important:
         (a)   Domestic. Personal, in house water use including kitchen,
bathroom, and laundry;
         (b)   Water hauling. Nondomestic, when other sources are not
reasonably available elsewhere;
         (c)   Commercial and civic use.
            1.   Commercial car and truck washes;
            2.   Laundromats;
            3.   Restaurants, clubs, and eating places; and
            4.   Schools, churches, motels/hotels, and similar commercial
establishments.
         (d)   Outdoor noncommercial watering.
            1.   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens; and
            2.   Minimal watering of trees where necessary for their survival.
         (e)   Outdoor commercial or public watering (using conservation
methods and when other sources of water are not available or feasible to use).
            1.   Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber
or the maintenance of livestock;
            2.   Watering by arboretums and public gardens of national, state,
regional, or community significance where necessary to preserve specimens;
            3.   Watering by commercial nurseries where necessary to maintain
stock;
            4.   Watering where necessary to establish or maintain revegetation
or landscape plantings required pursuant to law or regulation;
            5.   Watering of woody plants where necessary to preserve them; and
            6.   Minimal watering of golf course greens.
         (f)   Recreational. Operation of municipal swimming pools and
residential pools that serve more than 25 dwelling units; and
         (g)   Air conditioning.
            1.   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season;
            2.   Makeup of water during the cooling season; and
            3.   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair services.
      (3)   Nonessential (Class 3). Any waste of water, as defined herein, is
nonessential. The following uses of water, listed by site or user type, are
also nonessential:
         (a)   Public use.
            1.   Use of fire hydrants (excluding Class 1 and Class 2 uses),
including use of sprinkler caps, testing fire apparatus, and Fire Department
drills; and
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as needed to ensure
public health and safety as approved by health officials and the municipal
governing body.
         (b)   Commercial and civic use.
            1.   Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating places, except
by customer request;
            2.   Failure to repair a controllable leak; and
            3.   Increasing water levels in scenic and recreational ponds and
lakes, except as necessary to support fish and wildlife.
         (c)   Ornamental purposes. Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls;
         (d)   Outdoor noncommercial watering.
            1.   Use of water for dirt control or compaction;
            2.   Watering of annual or nonwoody plants other than vegetable
gardens;
            3.   Watering of lawns, parks, golf course fairways, playing
fields, and other recreational areas;
            4.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts, or other hard-surface areas;
            5.   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection; and
            6.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street.
         (e)   Outdoor commercial or public watering.
            1.   Expanding nursery facilities, placing new irrigated
agricultural land in production, or planting of landscaping except when
required by a site design review process;
            2.   Use of water for dirt control or compaction;
            3.   Watering of lawns, parks, golf course fairways, playing
fields, and other recreational areas;
            4.   Washing sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts, or other hard-surface areas;
            5.   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection; and
            6.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street.
         (f)   Recreational uses. Recreational uses other than those specified
as Class 2;
         (g)   Noncommercial washing. Noncommercial washing of motor and other
vehicles; and
         (h)   Air conditioning (see also Class 2 purposes). Refilling cooling
towers after draining.
   WASTEWATER. Includes, but is not limited to, permitting water to escape down
a gutter, ditch, or other surface drain, or failure to repair a controllable
leak of water due to defective plumbing.
   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PHASES.
      (1)   ADVISORY. Conditions that exist which indicate the potential for
serious water supply shortages.
      (2)   ALERT. Raw water supplies that are consistently below seasonal
averages, and if they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal
needs.
      (3)   EMERGENCY. Water supplies that are below the level necessary to
meet normal needs and that serious shortages exist in the area.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 52.16 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds a potential shortage of raw
water supplies is indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution
that a water shortage advisory exists, and that the Water Manager or
Superintendent shall, on a daily basis, monitor the supply and demands upon
that supply. In addition, the Mayor (or his or her agent) is authorized to call
upon all water customers to employ voluntary water conservation measures to
limit nonessential (Class 3) water use and eliminate the waste of water. This
resolution shall be published in the official city newspaper and may be
publicized through the general news media or any other appropriate method for
making such resolutions public.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 52.17 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds raw water supplies to be
consistently below seasonal averages, and if they continue to decline and may
not be adequate to meet normal needs, it shall be empowered to declare by
resolution that a water shortage alert exists. The city shall continue to
encourage voluntary water conservation measures defined under the advisory
declaration, and further shall impose a ban on all nonessential (Class 3) water
uses for the duration of the shortage until it is declared to have ended by
resolution of the governing body. Declaration of these resolutions shall follow
the guidelines in §
52.16.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 52.18 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that raw water supplies are
below the level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages
exist, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water shortage
emergency exists. Essential uses (Class 1) shall be identified, in specific, as
targets for voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all socially or
economically important uses (Class 2) shall be restricted, and nonessential
uses (Class 3) shall be banned. These restrictions shall be considered ongoing
until the emergency is ended by resolution of the governing body. Declaration
of these resolutions shall follow the guidelines in §
52.16.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 52.19 SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water shortage as provided in §§
52.16 through
52.18, the governing body of the city shall have the power to adopt shortage
water rates, by ordinance, designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   Such rates may provide for, but shall not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block
rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate);
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 52.20 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage as provided for in
§§
52.16 through
52.18, the Mayor (or City Manager or Water Superintendent) is empowered to
promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter, any water supply shortage resolution, or water shortage rate
ordinance. Such regulations shall be subject to the approval of the governing
body at its next regular or emergency meeting.
(Prior Code, § 52.06) (Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 52.21 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE; HEARING; RECONNECTION FEE.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to carry
out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter, or who impedes or
interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this chapter shall
be subject to the following penalties.
   (A)   (1)   If the Mayor, City Manager, Water Superintendent, or other city
official or officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this
subchapter or a water supply shortage resolution learns of any violation of any
water use restriction imposed pursuant to this chapter, a written notice of the
violation shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and
mailed to the customer of record and to any other person known to the city who
is responsible for the violation or its correction. Said notice shall describe
the violation and order that it be corrected, cured, or abated immediately or
within such specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the
circumstances.
      (2)   If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedures.
         (a)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the city governing body or a city official
designated as a hearing officer by the governing body.
         (b)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered..
         (c)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of
fact and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (B)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (A) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second violation and
$300 for each additional violation.
   (C)   Any customer may also be charged with violation of this subchapter and
prosecuted in the District Court, and if found guilty shall be subject to the
penalty provided in §
52.99.
(Prior Code, § 52.07) (Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
**** CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION ****
§ 52.35 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from any auxiliary water supply which
may cause contamination due to backflow or cross-connections. The city
recognizes that contamination of the public water supply presents an imminent
health hazard to the residential and nonresidential users of the public water
system; the threat of significant economic loss due to disrupted water service
to such residential and nonresidential water users and the potential liability
to the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this subchapter to meet the requirements
of 401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet.
   (C)   This subchapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082.
(Ord. 2024-25-04, passed 9-9-2024)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city’s public water supply. These AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLIES may
include water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream, or
body of water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable
quality that may present a health or system hazard to the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES and degree of
hazard is available in the state plumbing law, regulations, and State Plumbing
Code, being found in KRS Chapter 318 and 815 KAR.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
any waste product, fluid, substance, compound, or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONTAMINATION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water or substance of questionable
quality, through which, or because of which, backflow potential hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease.
   THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
(Ord. 2024-25-04, passed 9-9-2024)
§ 52.37 REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements.
   (A)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered as residential buildings. No new water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential
service connections shall be considered as low hazard applications and all such
connections shall have at a minimum a dual check valve backflow preventer
installed between the water meter and the residence. The city may require
additional or alternative backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of
hazard constitutes a higher level of protection for the public water system.
   (B)   Nonresidential. No new water service connection to any nonresidential
facility shall be installed by the city unless such water service connection is
protected by a backflow prevention assembly. The type of protective device
required shall be determined at the time of installation of the service
connection. At a minimum, the service connection shall be installed with a dual
check valve backflow preventer. In the event activities to occur within a
nonresidential facility and creates a higher degree of hazard, then the
backflow prevention assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides
acceptable protection.
   (C)   Inspections. The customer’s water system shall be open for inspection
at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine
whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violation of this subchapter, exist. When such conditions become known, the
city shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing
a physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
condition in conformance with the state statutes and city ordinances/
resolutions relating to plumbing, water supplies, and the regulations adopted
pursuantly thereto. Water service to any premises shall be discontinued if it
is found that a backflow prevention assembly required by this subchapter has
been removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises. Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connections.
      (1)   All existing water service connections which do not have backflow
prevention assemblies or existing water service connections which have less
than the minimum required backflow prevention assemblies, shall, except for the
inspection requirements, be excluded from the requirements of this subchapter
so long as the city is assured that the public water system is satisfactorily
protected. However, if the city determines that a hazard to health exists, then
a backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of this subchapter may
be installed on such connections until after the property owner of such
residential or commercial property has been informed of the actual and
potential hazards that may be created as a result of such backflow assembly
installation.
      (2)   Notices provided to such property owners shall prelude the
following language: “When cross-connection control devices are properly
installed, they create a closed water system. A properly sized thermal
expansion tank shall be installed in the cold-water supply located as near the
water heater as possible.”
(Ord. 2024-25-04, passed 9-9-2024) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person so charged and found guilty in District Court of violating
the provisions of §§
52.15 through
52.25 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial violation shall be
mandatory fees of $100, which may not be adjusted by the District Court. In
addition, such customer may be required by the Court to serve a definite term
of confinement in the city or county jail which shall be fixed by the Court and
which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second violation shall be a
mandatory fine of $300, which may not be adjusted by the District Court. In
addition, such customer shall serve a definite term of confinement in the city
or county jail, which shall be fixed by the Court and which shall not exceed 30
days. Penalties for additional violations shall be the second violation.
   (C)   Any person violating §§
52.35 through
52.37 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 52.99) (Ord. passed 6-1-1992; Ord. 2024-25-04, passed 9-9-2024)
CHAPTER 53: UTILITY FEES
Section
Rates
   
53.01   Water rates per month
   
53.02   Sewer rates per month
   
53.03   Gas rates per month
Charges
   
53.15   Water and sewer charges
   
53.16   Gas charges
**** RATES ****
§ 53.01 WATER RATES PER MONTH.
   (A)   Within corporate limits of city.
 
Gallons     Rate
First 2,000 $20 minimum
Next 8,000  $7.60 per 1,000 gallons
Next 15,000 $4.25 per 1,000 gallons
Over 25,000 $2.60 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Outside corporate limits of city.
 
Gallons     Rate
First 2,000 $28 minimum
Next 8,000  $9.25 per 1,000 gallons
Next 15,000 $6.25 per 1,000 gallons
Over 25,000 $4.75 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 2018-19-11, passed 6-7-2019)
§ 53.02 SEWER RATES PER MONTH.
 
Gallons     Rate
First 2,000 $17 minimum
Next 8,000  $6 per 1,000 gallons
Next 15,000 $3.60 per 1,000 gallons
Over 25,000 $1.90 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 2018-19-12, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 53.03 GAS RATES PER MONTH.
   The city shall have the power and authority hereunder, without the necessity
of a duly enacted ordinance, to adjust its gas service rates by up to the
percentage change in rates charged the city by its suppliers. Any adjustment in
rates may be effective at the time such changes in rates to the city are
effective.
(Ord. 2004-09, passed 11-5-2004)
**** CHARGES ****
§ 53.15 WATER AND SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   Water taps within the city limits or outside the city but in the
county shall be as follows.
 
Tap Size Fee
3/4”   $1,000
1”     $1,250
2”     Actual cost
 
   (B)   A sewer tap fee of $500 shall be assessed within the city limits.
   (C)   A deposit of $125 shall be paid before water meter installation within
the city limits and outside the city limits but in the county.
   (D)   A moving fee for moving the meter once said meter has been established
shall be $250 within the same yard, at Superintendent’s discretion with
distance factor. If new tap must be made, a tap fee will be required.
   (E)   A remove meter fee, which will remove the meter completely and back to
main line or to property line shall be $300.
   (F)   A returned check fee for any and all checks that have been returned
and dishonored by any bank for any reason shall be $25.
   (G)   A transfer fee to transfer deposits from one address to another shall
be $25.
   (H)   A fee for reconnecting any water meter once it has been disconnected
for any reason, including, but not limited to, lack of payment of bill shall be
in the amount of $25; provided said reconnect is requested in and performed in
the normal hours of business upon which city employees are at work to perform
said services. If said disconnect/reconnect is performed after normal business
hours, or on weekends, or on holidays, said disconnect/reconnect fee shall be
$50. No reconnect for lack of payment of bill will be after 7:00 p.m.
   (I)   A fee for cutting a lock on a water meter shall be of $100 for the
first offense and $200 for the second offense or if found to have installed a
bypass pipe. Second offenses will be turned over to an attorney for prosecution
of theft of service.
(Ord. 2024-25-02, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 53.16 GAS CHARGES.
   (A)   Gas taps within the city limits or outside the city but in the county
shall be as follows.
 
Tap Size Fee
3/4”   $1,000
1”     $1,250
2”     Actual cost
 
   (B)   A deposit of $125 shall be paid before meter installation for
residential customers. Any restaurant will be required to have a $500 deposit.
For all other business, commercial, and industrial customers, the gas deposit
will be one month’s bill based on historic usage for that particular location
and represent one month as determined by the Mayor.
   (C)   A moving fee for moving the meter once said meter has been established
shall be $250 within the same yard, at Superintendent’s discretion with
distance factor. If new tap must be made, a tap fee will be required.
   (D)   A remove meter fee, which will remove the meter completely and back to
main line or to property line shall be $300.
   (E)   A returned check fee for any and all checks that have been returned
and dishonored by any bank for any reason shall be $25.
   (F)   A transfer fee to transfer deposits from one address to another shall
be $25.
   (G)   A fee for reconnecting any water meter once it has been disconnected
for any reason, including, but not limited to, lack of payment of bill shall be
in the amount of $25; provided said reconnect is requested in and performed in
the normal hours of business upon which city employees are at work to perform
said services. If said disconnect/reconnect is performed after normal business
hours, or on weekends, or on holidays, said disconnect/reconnect fee shall be
$50. No reconnect for lack of payment of bill will be after 7:00 p.m.
   (H)   A fee for cutting a lock on a water meter shall be of $100 for the
first offense and $200 for the second offense or if found to have installed a
bypass pipe. Second offenses will be turned over to an attorney for prosecution
of theft of service.
(Ord. 2024-25-03, passed 8-5-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL REGULATIONS ****
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the commonwealth attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended
order.
**** TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES ****
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.30   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.31   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.32   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Permit required
   
71.47   Application for permit
   
71.48   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.49   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.50   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.51   Alternative permit
   
71.52   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.53   Contents of permit
   
71.54   Duties of permittee
   
71.55   Public conduct during parades
   
71.56   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
**** OPERATION GENERALLY ****
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
   (C)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
**** ACCIDENTS ****
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Powers and duties of police department, see §
70.03
**** PROHIBITIONS ****
§ 71.30 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates division
(C) or (D) above shall be subject to revocation of his or her operator’s
license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as
possible to the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop
and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) below shall apply to any driver
approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
**** PARADES ****
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.46 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.50 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.51 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.52 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.53 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.55 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.56 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.31 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
**** PARKING GENERALLY ****
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions
thereof stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under
authority of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit
is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are
restricted to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving
notice thereof.
         (b)   However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction
therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking
is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) below in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.25 through
72.27
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.45 through
71.56
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
**** IMPOUNDING ****
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle- related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (E) below for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
   (B)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (E) below, may
be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been
notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten
days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of
any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or
release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or
responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
division (B) shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to division (C) below.
   (C)   (1)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the commonwealth shall be notified by certified mail within the first
ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner’s name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this division (C) is not
sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days
of storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this division (C) within 45 days of notification, the
tow company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free
and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (C)(5)
above.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
   (E)   Divisions (A) through (D) above shall not apply to the following
contents of a motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or
the owner’s designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45
days of the date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including, but not limited to, calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person’s
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of §
72.27, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner of the
vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be transferred
to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as provided by KRS
16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
(KRS 376.275(2))
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   Except as provided in §
72.26(E)(5), any contents exempted under §
72.26(E)(3), (E)(4),(E)(6), and (E)(7) that are not claimed by the owner of the
vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed may be sold or
otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company. Any contents
exempted under §
72.26(E)(1), (E)(2), (E)(8), and (E)(9) that are not claimed by the owner of
the vehicle within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall not be sold,
but shall be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
(KRS 376.275(3))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS
376.275(4)
**** SNOW EMERGENCY ****
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency
route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized
city official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until
he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which
the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in
effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Parking penalty provisions, see KRS 189.990(1)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motor scooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.05   Definitions
   
73.06   Permits and fees for golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, and mini-trucks
   
73.07   Street-legal special purpose vehicles
Golf Carts
   
73.20   Specification of streets open for golf carts use
   
73.21   Operation of golf carts on city streets
   
73.22   Qualifications for operations of golf carts on city streets
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
73.35   Specification of streets open for all-terrain vehicles use
   
73.36   Operation of all-terrain vehicles on city streets
   
73.37   Qualifications for operation of all-terrain vehicles on city streets
   
73.38   Law enforcement
Mini-Trucks
   
73.50   Specification of streets open for mini-trucks use
   
73.51   Operation of mini-trucks on city streets
   
73.52   Qualifications for operation of mini-trucks on city streets
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV, UTV). Any motor vehicle used for recreational off-
road use.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in playing of golf, or maintaining
the grounds on the golf course;
      (2)   Has minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed no more than 35 mph;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of 1,200 pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R.
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley, boulevard, bridge, viaduct,
or trestle and the approaches to them and includes private residential roads,
parking lots covered by agreement (KRS 61.362), and off-street parking
facilities offered for public use, whether publicly- or privately-owned for
hire parking facilities listed in KRS 189.700.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of
roadways of two roadways of two highways which join one another, but do not
necessarily continue, at approximately right angles, or the area within which
vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any other angle may come
into conflict; or
         (b)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then even crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. The intersecting highway
also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart; every crossing of two
roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
      (2)   The junction of a private alley with a public street or highway
shall not constitute an intersection.
   MINI-TRUCK. A lightweight Japanese kei class utility vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles except:
      (1)   Road rollers;
      (2)   Road graders;
      (3)   Farm tractors;
      (4)   Vehicles on which power shovels are mounted;
      (5)   Construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways;
      (6)   Vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails; and
      (7)   Vehicles propelled by muscular power.
   OPERATOR. The person in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicle travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate ROADWAYS, the term shall refer to any ROADWAY separately but not
to all such ROADWAYS collectively.
   VEHICLE. Includes:
      (1)   All agencies for the transportation of persons or property over or
upon the public highways of the commonwealth; and
      (2)   All vehicles passing over or upon the highways.
(Ord. 15-13, passed 1-5-2016; Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.06 PERMITS AND FEES FOR GOLF CARTS, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, AND MINI-TRUCKS.
   The fee for an initial permit from the city for golf carts, all-terrain
vehicles, and mini-trucks shall be $10. A permit shall be valid March 1 of the
following year. The fee for renewal permit from the city shall be $10.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.07 STREET-LEGAL SPECIAL PURPOSE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. The definitions set forth in § 1(1) of the 2025 Kentucky
Acts, Chapter 89, and as may be amended in the future by the Kentucky General
Assembly, are adopted and incorporated by reference as if set forth fully
herein.
   (B)   Designated highways. Street-legal special purpose vehicles shall be
allowed to the extent permitted by the state statutes on all street and
roadways that are located within the jurisdictional limits of the city.
   (C)   Exceptions. Street-legal special purpose vehicles shall not be allowed
to operate on any highway, or portion thereof, that is a controlled access
system, including, but not limited to, an interstate or parkway, or on any
highway, or portion thereof, where the United States Department of Agriculture
prohibits special purpose vehicles.
   (D)   Prohibitions. 
      (1)   Street-legal special purpose vehicles are prohibited from traveling
a distance greater than 20 miles on a roadway displaying centerline pavement
markings.
      (2)   Mini-trucks shall not be operated as street-legal special purpose
vehicles on a highway that has been constructed pursuant to a federal highway
program.
(Ord. 2024-25-12, passed 6-6-2025) Penalty, see §
73.99
**** GOLF CARTS ****
§ 73.20 SPECIFICATION OF STREETS OPEN FOR GOLF CART USE.
   Each city street with a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less shall be open
for golf cart use.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.21 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on a city street if:
   (A)   The posted speed limit is 35 mph or less;
   (B)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross the roadway at
intersections where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 mph;
   (C)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her possession;
   (D)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset;
   (E)   The golf cart displays a slow moving vehicle emblem in compliance with
KRS 189.820;
   (F)   The operator and all passengers use all safety equipment with which
each golf cart is equipped; and
   (G)   No more than the maximum number of occupants for which the golf cart
is designed on board.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.22 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OPERATION OF GOLF CART ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   A golf cart operating on a city street shall be insured in compliance
with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of insurance shall
be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a city street.
   (B)   Any person operating a golf cart on a city street shall be subject to
all traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189.
   (C)   A golf cart operated on a city street shall:
      (1)   Prior to seeking a city permit, be inspected by a certified
inspector designated by the County Sheriff and certified through the Department
of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that the golf cart complies with the
requirements of KRS 189.286. The inspection fee under this section shall not
exceed $5 with an additional fee not exceed $10 per trip charged if it becomes
necessary for the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart
rather than having the golf cart brought to the Sheriff’s inspection area;
      (2)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city with a charge of
$5 plus the cost of the sticker; and
      (3)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on city streets within the city.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
**** ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ****
§ 73.35 SPECIFICATION OF STREETS OPEN FOR ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES USE.
   Each city street shall be open for all-terrain vehicle use.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.36 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate all-terrain vehicle on a city street if:
   (A)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her possession;
   (B)   The all-terrain vehicle is being operated during daylight hours,
except when engaged in snow removal or emergency road maintenance;
   (C)   The all-terrain vehicle has at least one headlight and two taillights,
which shall be illuminated at all times the vehicle is in operation;
   (D)   The operator complies with all applicable traffic regulations;
   (E)   The operator and all passengers use all safety equipment with which
the all-terrain vehicle is equipped and it must be equipped with seat belts;
   (F)   No more than the maximum number of occupants for which the all-terrain
vehicle is designed are onboard; and
   (G)   In order to promote public protection and safety, law enforcement
officers may operate all-terrain vehicles during special events, during
inclement weather, and in daytime or nighttime as long as all lights are
illuminated.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.37 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle operating on a city street shall be insured in
compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the all-terrain vehicle at all times of operation on
a city street.
   (B)   Any person operating an all-terrain vehicle on a city street shall be
subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189.
   (C)   An all-terrain vehicle or utility terrain vehicle operated on a city
street shall:
      (1)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the ATV or UTV is
allowed to be operated on city streets within the city;
      (2)   Be issued a permit annually for the all-terrain vehicle by the
city; and
      (3)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the all-terrain
vehicle is allowed to be operated on city streets within the city.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.38 LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   In order to assist in maintaining the public health, safety, and general
welfare of citizens and visitors to the city during special events, inclement
weather and any declared emergency by the Mayor, law enforcement officers, and
other persons designated by the Mayor and the Police Chief, only, may employ
the use of ATVs or UTVs to keep order, for crowd control, to aid or assist, and
any furtherance of the lawful performance of their lawful duties.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
**** MINI-TRUCKS ****
§ 73.50 SPECIFICATION OF STREETS OPEN FOR MIINI-TRUCK USE.
   Each city street shall be open for all mini-truck use.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.51 OPERATION OF MINI-TRUCKS ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate mini-truck on a city street if:
   (A)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her possession;
   (B)   The mini-truck is being operated during daylight hours, except when
engaged in snow removal or emergency road maintenance;
   (C)   The mini-truck has at least two headlights and two taillights, which
shall be illuminated at all times the vehicle is in operation;
   (D)   The operator complies with all applicable traffic regulations;
   (E)   The operator and all passengers use all safety equipment with which
the mini-truck is equipped and it must be equipped with seat belts; and
   (F)   No more than the maximum number of occupants for which the mini-truck
is designed are onboard.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.52 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OPERATION OF MINI-TRUCKS ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   A mini-truck vehicle operating on a city street shall be insured in
compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the mini-truck at all times of operation on a city
street.
   (B)   Any person operating a mini-truck on a city street shall be subject to
the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189 as follows:
      (1)   Be issued a permit annually for the mini-truck by the city; and
      (2)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the mini-truck is
allowed to be operated on city streets within the city.
(Ord. 2018-19-02, passed 8-30-2018)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street       Description                         Ord. No. Date Passed
Scott Alley  From Hamilton Street to High Street 2005-14  9-12-2005
Short Street Entire street                       2002-04  7-8-2002
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street         Speed Limit (mph) Ord. No.   Date Passed
Da-Ranco Drive 15                2003-14    10-6-2003
Scott Drive    15                2016-17-10 2-6-2017
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.23   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.24   Dogs running at large
   
90.25   Noise disturbance
   
90.26   Impoundment
   
90.27   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space,
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (C)   (1)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense under
division (A) above arising from the person’s treatment of an equine, the court
may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person, in
addition to fines and imprisonment:
         (a)   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
         (b)   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
      (2)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (C)(1)(b) above, the court may order the sale,
conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of the
offense resulting in conviction.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display, or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell, or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the city may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his or her
agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may
be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of
as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100)
**** DOGS ****
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.22 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name and
address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration the
owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as established
by City Council for each dog. The license tag shall be valid for one year from
the date of issue. A new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a
new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the owner
or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.27 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   New city streets
Excavations and Construction
   
91.015   Opening permit required
   
91.016   Application and cash deposit
   
91.017   Restoration of pavement
   
91.018   Barriers around excavations
   
91.019   Warning lights
   
91.020   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.035   Public hearing required
   
91.036   Notice requirements
   
91.037   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.038   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.039   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.040   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.055   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.056   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.057   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.058   Removal of ice and snow
Addressing and Street Naming System
   
91.070   Authority
   
91.071   Purpose and intent
   
91.072   Jurisdiction
   
91.073   Definitions
   
91.074   Street name signs
   
91.075   Naming and renaming streets
   
91.076   New street names
   
91.077   Addressing; posting of numbers
   
91.078   New address assignment
   
91.079   Administrator of subchapter
   
91.080   Variances and exceptions
   
91.081   Appeals
   
91.082   Failure to comply; enforcement
   
91.083   Limitation and liability
State or Federal Maintained Highways
   
91.095   Maintenance agreements
 
   
91.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.001 NEW CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the state statutes, all city streets must be submitted to
the city by legal description and by plat. Said legal description and plat
shall be submitted prior to any construction being started on proposed city
streets.
   (B)   All proposed city streets shall have a right-of-way of no less than 30
feet. Further, said road shall not be less than 22 feet from the center to the
center of the ditch line on each side.
   (C)   (1)   All proposed roads for the city shall be paved at the
contractors expense prior to their adoption as a city street. Said pavement
shall not be less than 16 inches in width and shall have dense grade of not
less than four inches deep to be compacted. Further, pavement shall be not less
than two inches of base asphalt, thereafter one-inch of surface mix asphalt.
      (2)   All streets shall be ditched and the ditches shall be graded and
seeded prior to adoption, at contractor’s expense. Drainage tiles shall be
placed along said road as directed by the Superintendent of Public Works and
drainage tiles shall not be less than 15 inches in diameter and shall be
constructed of corrugated steel pipe.
      (3)   Before adoption as a city street, the contractor shall notify the
city of the intention to dedicate the road to the city and that thereafter,
prepare said road in accordance with the above specifications. Further, the
contractor shall cause the road to be inspected by city personnel at the
following times:
         (a)   Prior to the laying of the dense grade gravel;
         (b)   Immediately after the laying of dense grade gravel and prior to
the two-inch base being placed on top thereof; and
         (c)   Immediately after the two-inch base and prior to the one-inch
surface mix being placed thereon.
      (4)   Further, prior to any construction on said street, said plans shall
be submitted to the Superintendent of Public Works who shall have final
authority as to the ditching, drainage, and grade of said roadway. Should the
proposed street be part of a subdivision or housing project, the contractor or
subdivider or landowner, shall further, at his or her own cost, shall, at his
or her own cost, lay water lines, gas lines, and sewer lines to each and every
lot contained on said street prior to its adoption. Plans and specifications
shall be submitted to the Utility Department and prior approval must be
obtained prior to the laying of any of the above mentioned utility lines.
      (5)   The hereinabove mentioned utility lines must be inspected after
construction but prior to being covered or buried by the Superintendent of
Public Works or his or her designee.
      (6)   All costs of the abovementioned specifications shall be paid by the
contractor, subdivider, or landowner.
(Ord. 2001-11, passed 12-3-2001)
**** EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION ****
§ 91.015 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.016 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.017 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the Council.
   (B)   (1)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill
the excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.016 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it.
      (2)   If the amount of the services performed by the city should exceed
the amount of the deposit, the Clerk/Treasurer or other proper administrative
officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the permittee.
§ 91.018 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.019 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.020 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
Statutory references:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
**** ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS ****
§ 91.035 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.036 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.037 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.038 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project in which
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.039 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5))
§ 91.040 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   Provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters nor street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(6))
**** OBSTRUCTIONS ****
§ 91.055 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot
of land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
§ 91.058 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.999
**** ADDRESSING AND STREET NAMING ****
§ 91.070 AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter are adopted under the authority granted by
the state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 91.45) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.071 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to provide a uniform system of
road naming and assigning of addresses for all properties and buildings
throughout the city in order to facilitate provision of adequate public safety
and emergency response service, and to minimize difficulty in locating
properties and buildings for public service agencies and the general public.
This subchapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of the
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 91.46) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.072 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this subchapter includes the entire geographic area of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.47) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.073 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAYS. A private way, beginning at the property line of a lot abutting a
public road, private road or street, easement, or private right-of-way, giving
access from that public road or street, private road, or private right-of-way
leading to a building, use, or structure on that lot.
   PRIVATE STREET. Any one-way or two-way street for ingress and/or egress not
for use by the general public that serves two or more properties.
   ROAD ADDRESS. The combination of numbers and street names assigned to a
particular location by the City Address Program Administrator.
   STREET. A public or private one-way or two-way road for ingress and/or
egress. Such STREETS may be of various types including frontage streets, rear
access streets, streets with cul-de-sacs, and dead- end roads. This definition
includes secondary streets, but does not include driveways.
(Prior Code, § 91.48) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.074 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs shall be assigned and installed for all streets, whether
public or private and at all intersections throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.49) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.075 NAMING AND RENAMING STREETS.
   (A)   Request for new names and name changes must include a completed
petition signed by at least 50% plus one of the residents along the affected
street.
   (B)   Petition to change a street name must include a fee of $25 per sign
blade to cover cost of replacing signs in addition to $100 to advertise public
hearings. If the City Council does not approve the request, only the sign cost
will be refunded.
   (C)   There is no fee for requesting names for unnamed public or private
streets, however the procedure is the same.
   (D)   Petition applications may be obtained from the Addressing Program
Administrator.
   (E)   (1)   Petitions for street name change will be received annually
during the first quarter of the calendar year only. At the end of the first
quarter of the calendar year, the Addressing Program Administrator shall cause
a summary of the petitions received to be published in the “Edmonton Herald
News.” All hearings on the change of street name shall be held in the regular
session of the City Council in June of each year.
      (2)   Petitions for naming unnamed streets shall be considered as needed,
however, before any request for a new name or any recommendation of the Address
Program Administrator can be heard, a summary of the request must be published
in the “Edmonton Herald News” once prior to being presented to the City
Council.
   (F)   Petitions to name unnamed streets or to change a street name must be
approved by the Addressing Program Administrator.
   (G)   The Addressing Program Administrator will review requests to determine
if all procedures are met and to ascertain that the proposed names do not
duplicate an existing name and also to ensure that the petition meets all other
requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.50) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995; Ord. 1997-1, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 91.076 NEW STREET NAMES.
   The Address Program Administrator is hereby authorized to prepare and
present to the City Council recommendations for the naming of all unnamed
streets both public and private within the city to propose new names to
eliminate duplications and sound alike street names, and to present all
petitions received to change the name of an existing street.
(Prior Code, § 91.51) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.077 ADDRESSING; POSTING OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   All streets, both public and private, shall be named and addressed if
two or more addressable structures, including mobile homes, are located on and
accessed by them.
   (B)   When each house or building had been assigned its respective address,
the Address Program Administrator, in cooperation with the U.S. Postal Service
shall notify the owners, occupants, or agents of the affected house or
building, by letter advising of their new addresses.
   (C)   Numerals indicating the address number of a single-family dwelling
shall be at least three inches in height and shall be posted and maintained so
as to be legible from the street.
   (D)   Numerals for multiple dwelling units and nonresidential buildings
shall be at least six inches in height and shall be placed on the front of the
building facing the road or on the end of the building nearest the street.
   (E)   Numerals must be of contrasting color to the background.
   (F)   Mobile home lots shall have sequential address numbers throughout the
park. Each lot will have a separate address number assigned. The address number
of each lot must be clearly displayed on the lot by being attached to the
mobile home consistent with division (A) above. No unit designator shall be
allowed in the address of mobile homes.
   (G)   The address shall be placed on existing buildings within 30 days from
the date of the letter of notification.
   (H)   On a corner lot, the house number should face the street named in the
address. The address of a corner lot shall be the street in which the residence
is facing.
(Prior Code, § 91.52) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.078 NEW ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT.
   (A)   The owner or occupant or person in charge of any house or building in
need of an address shall apply through the Building Inspector’s Office.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any principal building until
the owner or occupant has procured from the Building Inspector the official
address of the premises.
   (C)   Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any principal
building erected or repaired after the effective date of this subchapter shall
be withheld until a permanent and proper address has been displayed in
accordance with requirements.
(Prior Code, § 91.53) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.079 ADMINISTRATOR OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   The Address Program Administrator is hereby designated Administrator
of this subchapter and shall have the authority to verify, modify, or assign
addresses and to enforce the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Administrator of this subchapter shall assign and maintain a
record of all addresses for the city.
   (C)   The Administrator of this subchapter shall maintain a database of
existing street names, such that duplication and sound-alike street names are
neither assigned or approved.
(Prior Code, § 91.54) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.080 VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Council may issue variances and exceptions from the requirements of
this subchapter such that would not be contrary to the public interest, or the
spirit and intent of this subchapter, and where due to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter would result in an
unnecessary hardship. In granting a variance, the City Council must determine
the following:
   (A)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to the
street naming or addressing involved and which are not applicable to other
streets and avenues, or addresses;
   (B)   The literal interpretation of the provisions of this subchapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other citizens;
   (C)   Special conditions and circumstances do not result from the actions of
the applicant; and
   (D)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any
special privilege that is denied by this subchapter to other citizens.
(Prior Code, § 91.55) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.081 APPEALS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be held to be minimum requirements
adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
Wherever the requirements of this subchapter differ with the requirements of
any other adopted county, state, or federal regulations, the most restrictive
or that imposing the highest standard shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 91.56) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
§ 91.082 FAILURE TO COMPLY; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until an official house
number has been assigned for a lot.
   (B)   Owners or occupants of buildings already constructed which do not
comply with this subchapter will be notified and requested to meet requirements
within 60 days from the date of the notification. A warning notice will be
issued after the 60 days if the requirements have not been met. If the owner or
occupant does not comply voluntarily with this subchapter within 30 days of
receiving delivery of a warning notice by registered or certified mail or by
hand delivery, enforcement action pursuant to this subchapter may be initiated.
(Prior Code, § 91.57) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.083 LIMITATION AND LIABILITY.
   The city, directors, officers, and agents, are not liable for any damages in
a civil action for injuries, death, or loss to persons or property incurred by
any person as a result of any act or omission of any of its employees,
directors, officers, or agents, except for willful or wanton misconduct, in
connection with developing, adopting, implementing, or operating any 911
system.
(Prior Code, § 91.58) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
**** STATE OR FEDERAL MAINTAINED HIGHWAYS ****
§ 91.095 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   Whenever the Commissioner of Highways of the commonwealth, by authority of
KRS 177.041, 177.043, and 177.047 designates any streets or portions thereof,
including viaducts and bridges, as connecting links of state or federal
maintained highways, or necessary feeder streets thereto and thereby undertakes
the future maintenance, repair, construction, or reconstruction of such
streets, bridges, or viaducts in the manner provided by the aforesaid statutes,
the Mayor is hereby expressly authorized, instructed, and directed to enter
into any and all constructs and agreements with the Bureau of Highways
necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions of the statutes.
(Prior Code, § 91.70) (Ord. 1-1961, passed - -1961)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction,
be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or agent thereof who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
91.070 through
91.083 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, for the conviction of which, the
maximum penalty by law may be imposed. Each day’s continuing violation is a
separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. passed 9-11-1995)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
Weeds, Grass, and Debris
   
92.20   Maintenance of grass, weeds, and other vegetation or rubbish
   
92.21   Duty of owner, lessee, or occupant to cut or remove
   
92.22   Failure to comply; abatement by city; lien
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   DWELLING. Any part of any building or its premises used as a place of
residence or habitation or for sleeping by any person.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of: want of repair; defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting,
ventilation, or construction; infection with contagious disease; or the
existence on the premises of any unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness
among occupants of the dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this subchapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dwellings unfit for human habitation. The erection, use, or
maintenance of a dwelling which is unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   Dangerous buildings adjoining streets. Any building, house, or
structure so out of repair and dilapidated that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property, using or being upon the streets or
public ways of the city adjoining the premises, by reason of the collapse of
the building, house, or structure or by the falling of parts thereof or of
objects therefrom;
   (C)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof or therefrom;
   (D)   Dilapidated buildings. Any building, house, or structure which is so
out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to catch
on fire or communicate fire, or which due to lack of adequate maintenance or
neglect, endangers the public health, welfare, or safety, or materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment of and/or by owners or occupants of
adjacent property;
   (E)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
   (F)   Noxious odors or smoke. Emission into the surrounding atmosphere of
odor, dust, smoke, or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical
occupation of other property in the vicinity unhealthy, uncomfortable, or
impossible;
   (G)   Noise. Emission of noise which is noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwelling or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering
with the ordinary comforts of human existence;
   (H)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
   (I)   Weeds. The existence of thistles, burdock, jimson weeds, ragweeds,
milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, iron weeds, and all other noxious weeds and
rank vegetation in excess of an average height of 12 inches;
   (J)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
   (K)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks. The growing and
maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet clearance over streets or less than
eight feet over sidewalks, or the growing and maintenance of shrubbery in
excess of three feet in height within the radius of 20 feet from the point
where the curb line of any street intersects the curb line of another street.
No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the property line of any
street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any
street intersects with the curb line of another street;
   (L)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
   (M)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property,
as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner
of the property to comply, the City Building Inspector, or other properly and
officially designated person, shall be authorized to send employees upon the
property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
65.8840 and this section, and shall be recorded in the Office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the annual rate established by the City Council from
time to time, until paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other
subsequent liens, except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may
be enforced by judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or any other
remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been
attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of
the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the
city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
(KRS 65.8840) (Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992)
**** WEEDS, GRASS, AND DEBRIS ****
§ 92.20 MAINTENANCE OF GRASS, WEEDS, AND OTHER VEGETATION OR RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, or occupant, or any agent,
servant, representative, or employee of any such owner, lessee, or occupant
having control of any lot or land or any part thereof in the city, to permit or
maintain on any such lot or land, along or on the sidewalk, street, alley
adjacent to the same between the property line and the curb, or middle of the
alley for ten feet outside the property line if there be no curb, any growth of
weeds, grass or other rank vegetation, or other unsightly and unhealthy
undergrowth to a greater height than 12 inches on the average, or any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass, brush, or rubbish.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any such person or persons to cause,
suffer, or allow poison ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous plants, or plants
detrimental to health to grow on any such lot or land in such manner that any
part of such ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous, harmful weed shall extend,
overhang, or border any public place or allow seed, pollen, or other poisonous
particles or emanations therefrom to be carried through the air into any public
place.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 DUTY OF OWNER, LESSEE, OR OCCUPANT TO CUT OR REMOVE.
   It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee, or occupant of any lot or land to
cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed all such weeds, grass, or other
rank, poisonous, or harmful vegetation or other unsightly and unhealthy
undergrowth or rubbish as often as necessary to comply with the provisions of §
92.20.
(Prior Code, § 92.16) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992)
§ 92.22 FAILURE TO COMPLY; ABATEMENT BY CITY; LIEN.
   If the provisions of this subchapter are not complied with, the Chief of
Police shall serve written notices upon the owner, lessee, or occupant or any
person having the care or control of any such lot or land, to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter. If the person upon whom the notices or notice is
given fails, neglects, or refuses to cut and remove or cause to be cut and
removed such weeds, grass, or other vegetation or unsightly and unhealthy
undergrowth or rubbish within ten days after receipt of such notice, or if no
person can be found in the city who either is or claims to be the owner of such
lot or land or who either represents or claims to represent such owner, the
City Building Inspector, or properly and officially designated person, shall
cause such weeds, grass, or other vegetation, or unsightly and unhealthy
undergrowth or rubbish to be cut and removed, and the actual cost of such
cutting and removing, plus 5%, or inspection and other additional costs in
connection therewith, shall be certified by the City Building Inspector, or
properly and officially designated person, to the Clerk/Treasurer and shall
thereupon become and be a lien upon the property of which such weeds, grass, or
vegetation or unsightly and unhealthy undergrowth or rubbish were located and
shall be added to and become and form part of the taxes next to be assessed and
levied upon such lot or land and shall bear interest at the same rate as taxes
and shall be collected and enforced by the same officer and in the same manner
as taxes.
(Prior Code, § 92.17) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall neglect to cut and remove weeds, grass, or other
vegetation or unsightly and unhealthy undergrowth or rubbish or other material
(s) as directed in this chapter, or who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to
comply with the provisions of any notice herein provided, or shall violate any
of the provisions of this chapter, or shall resist or obstruct any city
official in the cutting and removing of weeds, grass, or other vegetation or
unsightly and unhealthy undergrowth or rubbish shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $1 nor more than $500, and each day on which such violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. passed 6-29-1992)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
**** FIREWORKS ****
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, FIREWORKS means any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks” as defined in division (B) below or “display fireworks” as
defined in division (D) below and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not
include the following.
      (1)   Exception number one. Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not
considered to be FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number two. Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be FIREWORKS.
      (3)   Exception number three. Propelling or expelling charges consisting
of a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks
that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety
Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division 1.4G Class C
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include the following.
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-quarter inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include the following.
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers, and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   (1)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks.
      (2)   DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and are classified as Class B
explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items is as follows.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) above are not legal for retail sale
but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   Consumer fireworks shall not be used, ignited, fired, or exploded in the
city limits, except as follows.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks may only be used between the hours of 12:00 p.m.
and 10:00 p.m. on June 25 through July 3 and on July 4 from 12:00 p.m. to 11:00
p.m., July 5 through July 7 from 12:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., October 31 from 12:
00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m., and other times deemed appropriate by Council that are
approved by a motion of Council or executive order.
   (B)   Any person wishing to use, ignite, fire, or explode those fireworks
authorized by KRS Chapter 227 and this subchapter in the city on any other days
shall petition the Council through a motion of Council approved by vote of the
Council or may acquire permission by an executive order.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a
fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold. The
registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply to permanent
business establishments which are open year round and in which the sale of
fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location shall
be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS
139.200.
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B), or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in
division (C) below.
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands,
or tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(B) as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) above, shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which fireworks will be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (E)   The annual registration required by this section shall be received by
the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at
the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a sales and use
tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall be presented
to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration. If the registration
is received less than 15 days prior to offering fireworks for sale at the site
for which registration is intended, an additional assessment of $100 shall be
added to the initial fee.
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian.
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6).
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks as defined in §
93.01(B) may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure,
vehicle, or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in his or her judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry; gold
star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate; toy snakes
which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party novelties, which contain
less than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive mixture; shells or
cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges for a show or
theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of fireworks, provided
the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
**** FIRE PREVENTION ****
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating §
93.02 in a first offense shall constitute a civil offense and shall be subject
to a civil fine of not more than $50 pursuant to KRS 65.8801. A second offense
for a violation of §
93.02 shall constitute a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine of
not more than $100 pursuant to KRS 65.8801.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4)) (Ord. 2015-05, passed 11-2-2015)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   City policy
   
95.02   Duties of Mayor
§ 95.01 CITY POLICY.
   It is the public policy of the city to promote fair treatment and equal
opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color, religion,
national origin, or sex.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
§ 95.02 DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall have and perform the following duties:
   (A)   Obtain information concerning discrimination in housing or in the
operation of the HUD CD Block Grant Program, against any persons on account of
race, color, religion, national origin, or sex; and
   (B)   Assist any person alleging discrimination to prepare a complaint and
to refer it to the State Commission on Human Rights for all necessary
investigation, conciliation, hearing, or enforcement, in accordance with state
and federal law.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Smoking, Vaping, or Tobacco Use at Edmonton Memorial Park
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Prohibition
   
96.03   Posting of signs
   
96.04   Enforcement
 
   
96.99   Penalty
**** SMOKING, VAPING, OR TOBACCO USE AT EDMONTON MEMORIAL PARK ****
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Protect the public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking and
vaping in certain designated public places;
   (B)   Guarantee the right of nonsmokers and non-vapers to breathe smoke-free
air; and
   (C)   Recognize that the public’s need to breathe smoke-free air shall have
priority over the individual’s desire to smoke.
(Ord. 2023-24-05, passed 6-3-2024)
§ 96.02 PROHIBITION.
   Smoking, vaping, and tobacco use is prohibited at Edmonton Memorial Park
except in designated locations within the park. Designated areas are the
designated parking lots within the Edmonton Memorial Park.
(Ord. 2023-24-05, passed 6-3-2024) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   No smoking signs or the international no smoking symbol, consisting of a
pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a
red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in every public
place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by this subchapter.
The party responsible for the placement of the signage is the owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of the premises.
(Ord. 2023-24-05, passed 6-3-2024)
§ 96.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer, the city police, the Fire Department,
the County Health Department, and all other city officials and employees
designated by the Mayor or City Council shall enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   City employees shall inform persons seen violating this subchapter of
the requirements of this subchapter. In the event a city employee observes a
person or persons violating this subchapter, he or she shall immediately direct
the person or persons in violation to extinguish the item being smoked. In the
event the person violating this subchapter fails or refuses to comply with this
directive, the city employee directing the person violating this subchapter
shall take immediate and reasonable steps to obtain the removal of the person
from the premises.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, the city and
the County Health Department may bring legal action to enforce this subchapter,
either by civil action seeking injunctive relief or by criminal complaint in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2023-24-05, passed 6-3-2024)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by
the provisions of §§
96.01 through
96.04 shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by a fine not exceeding $50.
      (2)   Violation of §§
96.01 through
96.04 is declared to be a public nuisance, which may be abated by the city or
its designated agents by restraining order, preliminary and permanent
injunction, or other means provided for by law. The city may recover the
reasonable costs of any court enforcement action seeking abatement of this
nuisance.
      (3)   Each day on which a violation of §§
96.01 through
96.04 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 2023-24-05, passed 6-3-2024)
CHAPTER 97: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
97.01   Hazardous materials
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is adopted by the city for the purpose of
protecting public health and safety through prevention and control of hazardous
materials incidents and releases, and requiring payment by parties responsible
for hazardous materials of all expenses incurred by public safety and emergency
agencies in responding to such hazardous materials releases.
   (B)   Applicability. Pursuant to authority of KRS 174.400 et seq., the
provisions of this section shall apply to all persons who manufacture, use,
store, or transport hazardous materials within the entire area of the city.
This section also applies to all persons and agencies that respond to hazardous
materials releases and threatened releases.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. No person shall cause, threaten, or allow the release
of hazardous materials into the environment within the territorial boundaries
of the city, unless such release is an authorized release in accordance with an
appropriate permit granted by that agency of state or federal government which
has primary jurisdiction over such release and such release is in such place
and manner as will not create a substantial present or potential hazard to
human health, property, or the environment.
   (D)   Notice to public safety communications center. This division (D)
establishes a duty to give notice upon discovery of a release or threatened
release of hazardous material and provides an emergency telephone number. This
division (D) also contains a duty to control releases and a duty to report to
any and all agencies which may be applicable.
   (E)   Administering agency. The County Disaster and Emergency Services shall
be the lead agency in administrating this section.
   (F)   Response authority. This division (F) allocates all authority for each
and all administrative regulations and legal necessities of this section.
   (G)   Liability for costs. This division (G) establishes liability for costs
or removal and remedial actions incurred by local public safety and emergency
agencies as a result of a release or threatened release of hazardous materials
into the environment.
   (H)   Impoundment. This division (H) authorizes the impoundment or sale of
any equipment or personal property utilized or involved in an unauthorized
release of hazardous materials within the city.
   (I)   Disclaimer of liability. This section shall not create liability on
the part of the administering agency or on the part of the response authority
for any damages that result from reliance on this section or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2003-08, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to make report of a hazardous materials release or failure to
cooperate with the Fire Chief in his or her duties under this chapter shall be
deemed a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2003-08, passed 6-2-2003)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
      
115.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
116.   RECYCLERS AND SALVAGE YARDS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   Prohibition of cannabis business operations
   
110.11   Display of sexually explicit materials
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any trade, business, or professional without
first applying for and obtaining a license from the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   TRADE, BUSINESS, or PROFESSION is defined as an enterprise, activity,
or undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit, or conducted by an
individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity, but
shall not include the usual activities of boards of trade, chambers of
commerce, trade associations, or unions, (or other associations performing the
services usually performed by trade associations or unions), community chest
funds or foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated
exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, education, or
civic purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals, for
clubs or fraternal organizations operated exclusively for social, literary,
educational, or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings or income or
receipts for such units, groups, or associations inures to the benefit of any
private shareholder or individual.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 4-15-2008) Penalty see §
110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Clerk/Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the
city and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the City
Clerk/Treasurer and any other appropriate city official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or person for a
longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted,
in a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and, whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the City Council at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the City Council may issue an order
suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon service
of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason for
suspension and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the license
may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his or her
license has been revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee, as the case
may be, shall within three business days have the right to appeal to the City
Council from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be
filed in writing with the City Clerk/Treasurer who shall fix the time and place
for a hearing, which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City
Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the Mayor and all members of the City Council of
the time and place of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A
majority of the City Councilmembers shall constitute a quorum to hear the
appeal. The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel.
   (B)   If, after hearing, a majority of the members of the Council present at
the meeting declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or
fully reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall
become final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation,
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
§ 110.10 PROHIBITION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. The definitions within KRS 218B.010 are hereby adopted as
if set out herein and as relevant to this section.
   (B)   Cannabis businesses prohibited. All cannabis businesses are hereby
prohibited from operating within the city limits.
(Ord. 2024-25-07, passed 9-9-2024) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIALS.
   No person who sells or in any way deals or traffics in material,
publications, photographs, films, or electronic products or devices which show,
depict, simulate, or record any person in a state of nudity so that the
genitals are exposed or shall display, maintain, keep, or store said material
in such a way that the contents thereof are visible or accessible to any person
who is not the owner of the product or who is not examining the product for the
purpose of purchase, lease, or rent, nor shall any such material be sold,
delivered, or displayed to any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 2004-01, passed 4-5-2004) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Solicitations in streets and intersections prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as
the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Council, within 14 days after notice of the decision
has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written statement setting
forth the grounds for appeal. The Council shall set the time and place for a
hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the person in the same
manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“Licensed Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during the time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 SOLICITATIONS IN STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. The City Council finds that the practice of
selling or soliciting funds from persons in vehicles using the streets in the
city, commonly known as roadblock solicitations, creates traffic hazards and
delays, and is a risk to public safety. Such activity typically occurs at busy
intersections, but may involve hazards and delays at any location along a
street. The purpose of this section is to eliminate that source of hazard and
delay.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall stand, sit, or remain in or next to
the traveled portion of any street in the city, for the purpose of selling any
item to drivers or passengers of vehicles using the street, or for the purpose
of soliciting contributions from the drivers or passengers of vehicles using
the street.
   (C)   Permits for charitable solicitation. No city permits shall be issued
for charitable solicitation at any location where such solicitation is
prohibited by this section.
   (D)   Drive-in businesses not affected. Nothing in this section shall be
interpreted as affecting any business that solicits business by inviting
drivers of automobiles to leave the traveled portion of the street and enter a
parking lot or driveway for such service or business.
(Ord. 2008-11, passed 12-1-2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public of all persons who have left any property
that has been pawned or sold, and the names as verified by:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)
(b) above is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted.
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division (A)(4), “full description” includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)    Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers, and for other expenses,
losses, and incidental costs associated with servicing these loans. Further,
this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any
purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.
   (B)   However, county police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $50
nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(D) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest and refunds
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
Statutory reference:
   Adjustments for overpayment, underpayment, or nonpayment, see KRS 91A.0804
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by the city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year’s premiums,
and if so based, shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually
collected within each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing
within the corporate limits of the city.
(KRS 91A.080(2))
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be based upon
the premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders. In determining the amount of license
fee or tax to be collected and to be paid to the city, the insurance company
shall use the tax rate effective on the first day of the policy term. When an
insurance company collects a premium as a result of a change in the policy
during the policy term, the tax rate used shall be the rate in effect on the
effective date of the policy change. With respect to premiums returned to
policyholders, the license fee or tax shall be returned by the insurance
company to the policyholder pro rata on the unexpired amount of the premium at
the same rate at which it was collected and shall be taken as a credit by the
insurance company on its next quarterly report to the city.
(KRS 91A.080(3))
   (B)   No license fee or tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to
premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. § 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Title V, Subtitle B, the Non-Admitted and Reinsurance
Reform Act of 2010, of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203;
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
school districts; or
      (8)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by nonprofit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county governments, urban- county governments,
consolidated local governments, unified local governments, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the commonwealth.
(KRS 91A.080(10))
   (C)    No license fee or tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(KRS 91A.080(13))
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
   (B)   (1)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or
tax to a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that
an insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days of notice to the city paid.
      (2)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall
bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the
date due until paid. Such interest payable to the city is separate from
penalties provided for in KRS 91A.080(7). In addition, the city may assess a
10% penalty for a tax or fee not paid within 30 days after the due date.
(KRS 91A.080(9))
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(KRS 91A.080(8))
CHAPTER 114: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License application required
   
114.03   Minimum and maximum tax amounts
   
114.04   Apportionment
   
114.05   Employers to withhold
   
114.06   Returns required
   
114.07   Extensions
   
114.08   Refunds
   
114.09   Federal audit provisions
   
114.10   Administrative provisions
   
114.11   Information to remain confidential
   
114.12   Penalties
   
114.13   Use of occupational license tax
   
114.14   Payment of estimated tax quarterly
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations, or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic, or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes, or receipts of such unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§
401(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408,414(h), or 457, being 26 U.S.C. §§
401(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to,
I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 125 and 132.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
EMPLOYEE, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code as defined in KRS 67.750
(7).
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in I.R.C. § 61, being 26 U.S.C. § 61,
minus all of the deductions from gross income allowed by I.R.C. Chapter 1, and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under I.R.C. § 172, being 26 U.S.C. § 172;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the city.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a penalty
in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership
or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class, with the authority to
levy net profits, or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT.
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
within the city means NET PROFIT.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without the city means NET PROFIT, and as apportioned under §
114.04.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.02 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city shall
be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status. A minimum license fee is payable in advance to the city for each
calendar year. Said minimum fee shall be a credit against net profits as
otherwise provided in this chapter only for the tax year which said minimum fee
covers and shall not be a credit for any subsequent year. Licensees are
required to notify the city of any changes in address, the cessation of
business, or any other changes which render the information supplied to the
city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.03 MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM TAX AMOUNTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, every person or business
entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business entity
that makes a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the Kentucky Revenue
Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an annual occupational
license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities within the city.
The occupational license tax shall be measured by 1.50% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee; and
      (2)   The net profits from business conducted in the city by a resident
or nonresident business entity, or $25, whichever is greater.
   (B)   The maximum tax liability under this chapter shall be assessed as
follows:
      (1)   For each employee, a 1.50% maximum shall be applied by each
employer on the compensation by each employee and deductions shall be made only
upon the gross amount of compensation which does not exceed the FICA maximum
established for that year; and
      (2)   For each business entity, there shall be a 1.50% maximum liability
for the portion of the occupational license tax which is measured by net
profits.
   (C)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, or any savings and loan association whether state or federally
chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies, and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pays an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly
nonpublic service who are also engaged in public service activity are required
to pay a license fee on their gross receipts derived from the nonpublic service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons whose sole business activity is the manufacture of and/or
sale of alcoholic beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing
and/or selling alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may
exclude the portion of their gross receipts derived from such manufacturing
and/or sale of alcoholic beverages; and
      (6)   Insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the commonwealth except as provided in KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profits shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profits by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profits by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profits.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is passed through to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
passed through these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
114.03. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division (H) unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account
for, or pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes
imposed by this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Notwithstanding divisions (G) and (H) above, every employee receiving
compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under division (C) above
shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where the employer
does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the employee, such
employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the city, each
quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
114.05, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is received by
the city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was
made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   In the case where the tax computed under the provisions of this
chapter is less than the amount which has been declared and paid as estimated
tax for the same taxable year, a refund or credit, if a credit is requested,
shall be made upon the filing of a return.
   (D)   (1)   Overpayment resulting from the payment of estimated tax in
excess of the amount determined to be due upon the filing of a return for the
same taxable year may be credited against the amount of estimated tax
determined to be due on any declaration filed for the next succeeding taxable
year or for any deficiency or nonpayment of tax for any previous taxable year.
      (2) No refund shall be made of any estimated tax paid unless a complete
return is filed as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
114.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly; or
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (A) above, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally and
without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her
of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the city or other proper officer,
or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as the
information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the city from testifying in any court, or from introducing as
evidence returns or reports filed with the city, in an action for violation of
the city tax laws or in any action challenging the city laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the commonwealth or his or her duly authorized agent all such information
and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if the
Commissioner of Revenue of the commonwealth grants to the city the reciprocal
right to obtain information from the files and records of the Commonwealth
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish statistics based on
such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net profits
or compensation of any person.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.12 PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on gross receipts may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
114.05 may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the tax due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
114.03 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A)
through (D) above by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To
the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to recover all court
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.13 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
chapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.14 PAYMENT OF ESTIMATED TAX QUARTERLY.
   (A)   Every business entity, other than a sole proprietorship, subject to
taxation under this chapter, shall make quarterly estimated tax payments on or
before the fifteenth day of the fourth, sixth, ninth, and twelfth month of each
taxable year if the tax liability for the taxable year exceeds $5,000.
   (B)   The quarterly estimated tax payments required under division (A) above
shall be based on the lesser of:
      (1)   Twenty-two and one-half percent of the current taxable year tax
liability;
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the preceding full year taxable year tax
liability; or
      (3)   Twenty-five percent of the average tax liability for the three
preceding full year taxable years’ tax liabilities if the tax liability for any
of the three preceding full taxable years exceeded $20,000.
   (C)   (1)   Any business entity that fails to submit the minimum quarterly
payment required under division (B) above by the due date for the quarterly
payment shall pay an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the
amount of the quarterly payment required under division (B) above from the
earlier of:
         (a)   The due date for the quarterly payment until the time when the
aggregate quarterly payments submitted for the taxable year equal the minimum
aggregate payments due under division (B) above; or
         (b)   The due date of the annual return.
      (2)   A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any business
entity’s first full, or partial taxable year of doing business in the city or
any first taxable year in which a business entity’s tax liability exceeds
$5,000.
   (E)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated tax may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (C)   A RETURN, for the purpose of this section, shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
114.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of §
114.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-3-2007)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.001   Title
   
115.002   Purpose
   
115.003   Definitions
   
115.004   Construction
   
115.005   Alcoholic Beverage Control Law
   
115.006   Hours for sale and delivery
   
115.007   Enforcement
   
115.008   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
115.009   Signs and advertising
   
115.010   Prohibiting issuance of quota retail drink licenses
License Requirements
   
115.025   City license
   
115.026   Certain special licenses defined
   
115.027   Payment of license fees; delinquency
   
115.028   Refund of fees
   
115.029   Regulatory license fee
   
115.030   Disposition of fees and any other type of payment to the city
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
115.045   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
115.046   Appeals
Application and Maintenance of License
   
115.060   Advertisement
   
115.061   Form of application
   
115.062   Other conditions
   
115.063   Form of license
   
115.064   Change of information
   
115.065   Renewal of license
   
115.066   Lost or destroyed license
   
115.067   Revocation or suspension
   
115.068   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license
   
115.069   Transfer or assignment
   
115.070   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses
   
115.071   Review of license; books, records, and reports
   
115.072   Dormancy
Conditions, Prohibitions, and Restrictions
   
115.085   Gambling
   
115.086   Radio receiving apparatus
   
115.087   Security
   
115.088   Prizes prohibited
   
115.089   Drunkenness
   
115.090   Underage sales
   
115.091   Sign requirements; notice to persons under the age of 21
   
115.092   License to be displayed
   
115.093   Legal transactions for wholesalers, distributors, and retail
   
115.094   Employment restrictions
   
115.095   Happy hour restrictions
   
115.096   Lavatory facilities required
   
115.097   Nudity and adult entertainment activities prohibited
   
115.098   Drive-through outlets prohibited
   
115.099   Cause for revocation
Minors
   
115.110   Possession by minors prohibited; no person shall aid possession by
minors
Consumption on Premises Prohibited
   
115.125   Consumption on licensed package premises prohibited
   
115.126   Habitual congregating
   
115.127   Definitions
Malt Beverage Keg Registration
   
115.140   Definition
   
115.141   Malt beverage keg identification tag
   
115.142   Keg registration
   
115.143   Unlawful sales
Patio and Outdoor Sales
   
115.155   Patio and outdoor sales regulations
   
115.156   Exceptions to screening requirements for outdoor sales and service of
alcoholic beverages
   
115.157   Conditions for sidewalk café permit
   
115.158   Other requirements applicable to sidewalk cafés
 
   
115.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 115.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the alcoholic beverage control ordinance of
the city.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization under KRS Chapters 241 through 244.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.003 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Law (KRS Chapters 241 through 244) of the
commonwealth and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.004 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and traffic in
both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context permits
such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee,
or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent, or person in charge of any licensed
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions,
requirements, and penalties of any other ordinance of the city, or of any state
statues relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.005 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAW.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the commonwealth
(KRS Chapters 241 through 244) and all amendments and supplements thereto, are
adopted so far as applicable to this chapter except as otherwise lawfully
provided herein.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.006 HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY.
   (A)   A licensee for distilled spirits, wine, and/or malt beverages shall be
permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits, wine, and/or malt beverages
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. (midnight) Monday through
Saturday. No licensee shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits,
wine, and/or malt beverages after the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on
Saturday to 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on Sunday, with the noted exceptions in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Retail package distilled spirits, wine sales, and package malt
beverage sales shall be permitted from 6:00 a.m. until 12:00 a.m. each day of
the week. Licensees shall not be permitted to sell or dispense distilled
spirits, wine, and/or malt beverages after the hours of 12:00 a.m. on Saturday
to 12:00 a.m. on Sunday with the noted exceptions below:
      (1)   A licensee may sell and dispense distilled spirits, wine, and/or
malt beverages on New Year’s Eve until 2:00 a.m. on January 1, regardless of
the day of the week on which New Year’s Eve occurs; provided that the
appropriate licenses have been obtained from both the city and the State ABC
Board.
      (2)   All delivery of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be made
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday. No
delivery shall occur on Sunday.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016; Ord. 2025-26-08, passed 3-2-2026) Penalty,
see §
115.999
§ 115.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator and his or her
investigator(s) are hereby authorized to enforce this chapter in full.
   (B)   Under the authorization of KRS 241.090, city police officers, the City
ABC Administrator, and the assigned investigator’s for the city’s alcoholic
beverage control administration, are not required to obtain search warrants for
inspections upon the licensed facilities or any living quarters accessible by
the licensed facility. This includes, but is not limited to, the review of any
video or audio recordings of the licensed facility.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.008 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   (1)   All persons employed in the selling and/or serving of alcoholic
beverages shall participate in and complete the Kentucky S.T.A.R. program, or
such other certified and, or approved seller or server of alcoholic beverages
training program. For a responsible beverage selling training program to be
approved by the city, it must effectively train its participants in the
identification of false age documents and recognition of characteristics of
intoxication.
      (2)   The city will not require enrollment in particular classes, but
only that the training be obtained from a recognized program meeting the goals
expressed herein.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC Administrator a
record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each premises licensed hereunder must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty as described herein.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
re-certified not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016; Ord. 2020-21-04, passed 11-2-2020)
§ 115.009 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with:
      (1)   804 KAR 1:030 (https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/804/
001/030/);
      (2)   804 KAR 1:102 (https://apps.legislature.ky.gov/law/kar/titles/804/
001/102/); and
      (3)   Regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (B)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules, regulations, and ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to,
the planning and zoning ordinance as currently enacted, and/or as may be
enacted/amended in the future.
   (C)   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally-
owned property or at any municipally-sponsored event.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016; Ord. 2024-25-10, passed 3-3-2025) Penalty,
see §
115.999
§ 115.010 PROHIBITING ISSUANCE OF QUOTA RETAIL DRINK LICENSES.
   Pursuant to authority granted under KRS 243.230(2), quota retail drink
licenses may not be issued to premises located within the jurisdiction of the
City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 17-18-02, passed 9-8-2017)
**** LICENSE REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 115.025 CITY LICENSE.
   (A)   For the privilege of causing, permitting, and engaging in the actions,
business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is
hereby established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses
described in KRS 243.070.
   (B)   The fee for each city license shall be as set out in the schedule set
forth below. In the event KRS 243.070 shall hereafter be amended to authorize
additional city licenses, the fee for each city license shall be the maximum
fee provided in the statute as amended.
Bottling house or bottling house storage license                        $2,000
Caterer’s license                                                     $800
Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per event $200
Distilled spirits licenses as set forth in KRS 243.030
   Distiller’s license                                             $500
   Quota retail package license                                      $840
   Rectifier’s license                                             $3,000
   Wholesaler’s license                                            $3,000
Extended hours supplement license                                       $2,000
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and malt $1,050
beverages)
Limited restaurant license                                              $1,050
Malt beverage license fees
   Brewer’s license                                                $500
   Malt beverage distributor’s license                             $200
   Malt beverage brew-on-premises license                            $100
   Microbrewery license                                              $500
   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license                    $200
   Non-quota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license               $200
Non-quota Type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,      $2,000
wine, and malt beverages)
Non-quota Type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,      $1,000
wine, and malt beverages)
Non-quota Type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,      $300
wine, and malt beverages)
Special temporary license, per event                                    $136.50
 
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.026 CERTAIN SPECIAL LICENSES DEFINED.
   (A)   Limited restaurant license. A limited restaurant license may be issued
pursuant to KRS Chapter 243, if said restaurant meets the definition of a
LIMITED RESTAURANT as set forth in KRS 241.010(39). It is a facility where the
usual and customary business is the serving of meals to consumers, which has a
bona fide kitchen facility, which receives at least 70% of its gross income
from the sale of food, and which maintains seating capacity of either 100 or 50
persons for dining. If the limited restaurant only maintains seating capacity
for 50 persons, it shall not have open bar and all alcoholic beverages shall be
sold in conjunction with the sale of a meal. Distilled spirits, wine, and malt
beverages shall be deemed to be purchased in conjunction with a meal if the
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages are served after the meal is
ordered and no more than one-half hour after the meal is completed.
   (B)   Limited golf course license. A limited golf course license may be
issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243 if an establishment meets the following
conditions: a golf course with nine or 18 holes that meets United States Golf
Association criteria as a regulation golf course. A limited golf course license
shall authorize the license to purchase, receive, possess, and sell distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the
licensed premises.
   (C)   Non-quota Type 1 retail drink license. A non-quota retail drink
license may be issued to the following pursuant to and defined by the state
statutes: a convention center or a convention hotel complex; a horse racetrack;
an automobile racetrack; a railroad system; a commercial airlines system; or
charter flight system.
   (D)   Non-quota Type 2 retail drink license.
      (1)   A non-quota retail drink license may be issued pursuant to and as
defined in the state statutes for the following: a hotel that contains at least
50 sleeping units, contains dining facilities for at least 100 persons, and
receives from its total food and beverage sales at least 50% of its gross
receipts from the sale of food; a restaurant with a minimum seating for 50
consumers at tables; an airport; or a riverboat.
      (2)   A restaurant holding a non-quota Type 2 retail drink license which
has seating for more than 50, but less than 100 consumers at tables may only
purchase, receive, possess, and sell wine and malt beverages at retail by the
drink for consumption on the licensed premises.
   (E)   Non-quota Type 3 retail drink license.
      (1)   A non-quota Type 3 retail drink license may be issued pursuant to
and defined by the state statutes to the following: a private club in existence
for longer than one year prior to the license application; a dining car.
      (2)   A non-quota Type 3 retail drink license issued to a private club
shall authorize the licensee to exercise the privileges of a non-quota Type 2
retail drink license at the designated premises if the general public is
excluded.
   (F)   Non-quota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license. A non-quota Type
4 retail malt beverage drink license may be issued pursuant to and as defined
in the state statutes to the following: a holder of a quota retail drink
license; a holder of a microbrewery license; a holder of a small farm winery
license; and any other business wishing to sell malt beverages by the drink for
consumption on the premises only. A non-quota retail malt beverage drink
license shall not be issued to any premises from which gasoline and lubricating
oil are sold, or from which the servicing and repair of motor vehicles is
conducted, unless there is maintained in inventory for sale on the premises at
retail not less than $5,000 of food, groceries, and related products valued at
cost.
   (G)   Special temporary license.
      (1)   A special temporary license may be issued only as set forth in KRS
243.260. Such a license may be issued to any regularly organized fair,
exposition, racing association, or other party all as defined in applicable
state statutes. This license shall authorize the licensee to exercise the
privileges of a quota retail drink licensee and a non-quota Type 4 malt
beverage drink licensee at designated premises for a specified and limited
time, which shall not exceed 30 days and which shall expire when the qualifying
event ends. All restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits
and wine quota retail drink license or a non-quota retail malt beverage drink
license shall apply also to a special temporary licensee as described in this
section.
      (2)   The Alcohol Beverage Control Administrator shall only issue one
special temporary license per event. All sales are required to be served in
colored plastic or styrofoam containers, other than original.
      (3)   No licensee shall offer distilled spirits and wine for sale at any
time between 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on Saturday and 6:00 a.m. on Monday.
   (H)   Date of licenses. All city licenses, except temporary licenses, shall
begin on the date of issuance and shall expire on the same date as the
expiration of the license issued by the state. Any license issued, for less
than a six-month period (excepting a temporary license) shall be assessed a fee
which is based on the pro rata portion of the remainder of the license period.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016; Ord. 2016-17-13, passed 5-1-2017; Ord. 2025-
26-08, passed 3-2-2026) Penalty, see §
15.999
§ 115.027 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCY.
   No licensee shall enter into or begin operating any business for which a
license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid in
full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application. Failure to pay any license fee within ten days after it becomes
due shall result in a penalty equal to 10% of the license fee. Any licensee
failing to pay the fees, including penalties, within ten days after such fees
are due may be subject to revocation of the license and to other penalties as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.028 REFUND OF FEES.
   (A)   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting
the licensed business for the full period covered by the license because of any
changes that may hereafter be made in the laws of the commonwealth with
reference to alcoholic beverages or other cause outside licensee’s control,
then the city shall refund to licensee the proportionate part of the license
fee for the period during which licensee is prevented from carrying on said
business if the licensee provides sufficient proof to the City ABC
Administrator that such period of inactivity was not the fault of the licensee
or the result of a revocation, suspension, or other wrongdoing by licensee, or
an agent or employee of the licensee.
   (B)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.029 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory
license fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each
licensee who has a local license issued by the ABC Administrator. The city’s
regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales of all alcoholic beverages
sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of package distilled spirits and
wine, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales. The regulatory
license fee shall be 5% on gross retail sales of package malt beverages.
      (2)   The City Council may adopt with the budget for each subsequent
fiscal year, such annual rate for the regulatory license fee as shall be
reasonably estimated to ensure full reimbursement to the city for the cost of
any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expense related to the
sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. Should the city fail to address the
regulatory license fee in any budget, then the regulatory license fee shall
remain at the level at which it was last fixed in this chapter until such time
as the City Council shall adjust the fee.
   (B)   Payment of said regulatory fee shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, who shall transmit all fees to the City Clerk/Treasurer, or his
or her designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account. The city
may use said fees as permitted by law, including, but not limited to, any cost
of additional policing, regulatory, or administrative expenses related to the
sale of alcoholic beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in
addition to any other fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit
against a regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount
equal to any license fee shall be based on paperwork required by the local and/
or State ABC Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, tax
returns and financial statements. Said paperwork and payment will be due
according to the schedule set forth by the Mayor, or his or her designee, which
may be set at, but is not limited to, time periods consisting of a monthly or
quarterly billing by the local ABC office and/or the city.
   (C)   Failure to pay such remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and shall subject a licensee to suspension or
revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance by the due
date is 5% of the regulatory fee for each 90 days or fraction thereof. The
total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the regulatory fee; provided,
however, that in no case shall the penalty be less than $10.
   (E)   Interest at the rate of 8% per annum will apply to any late payments.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016; Ord. 2018-19-13, passed 6-3-2019) Penalty,
see §
115.999
§ 115.030 DISPOSITION OF FEES AND ANY OTHER TYPE OF PAYMENT TO THE CITY.
   The ABC Administrator shall transmit all fees and any other types of payment
made to the city, upon collection, to the City Clerk/Treasurer, or his or her
designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
**** ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR ****
§ 115.045 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, there is hereby created the duties of the
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator.
   (B)   The Mayor appoints the person to serve as the City Alcohol Beverage
Administrator, pursuant to KRS 241.170.
   (C)   The Mayor may from time to time appoint such additional personnel,
such as an alcohol beverage control investigator(s), as is necessary to assist
the City Alcohol Beverage Administrator in the administration of this chapter.
   (D)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the commonwealth (hereinafter referred to as ABC
Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations, except that no amendment
to this chapter may be less stringent than the statutes relating to alcoholic
beverage control, or than regulations of the ABC Board. No amended or
additional regulation shall become effective until the City Council has first
appropriately approved it by adopting an amendment to this chapter as required
by law.
   (E)   To prevent potential conflicts of interests, no person shall be a City
ABC Administrator, an investigator, or an employee of the city, under the
supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a
member of the ABC Board under state law set forth in KRS 241.100.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator shall have authority delegated by the Mayor
and as authorized under KRS Chapters 241 through 244. The City ABC
Administrator, along with any designated city alcoholic beverage control
administration investigator(s) shall have full police powers of law
enforcement, and their jurisdiction shall be co-extensive with the boundaries
of the city. They, along with the city law enforcement may inspect any premises
where alcoholic beverages are manufactured, sold, stored, or otherwise
trafficked in, without first obtaining a search warrant.
   (G)   Should the City ABC Administrator, or the designated ABC
administration investigator(s) at any time have reasonable grounds to believe
that any applicant, licensee, employee of a licensee, or any stockholder,
agent, or employee of a licensed corporation, LLC, or other business
organization, has a criminal record, they shall have the authority to require
such person to appear in person at the Police Department for the purpose of
having his or her fingerprints taken.
   (H)   The City ABC Administrator and his or her investigators shall have
available at all reasonable times for their inspection all books and records
required to be maintained by licenses under KRS 244.150 and the City ABC
Administrator shall receive copies of all reports submitted by licensee to the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (I)   The City ABC Administrator, before entering upon his or her duties,
shall take the oath prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution of Kentucky and
shall execute a bond with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less
than $1,000. Any employee delegated or assigned to the alcoholic beverage
control administration may also be asked to execute a similar bond in such
penal sum as the city deems necessary unless said person if already covered
under the city’s active bonds as required under state statutes in regards to
officials and employees of the city.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016; Ord. 2018-19-08, passed 1-7-2019)
§ 115.046 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be taken to
the State ABC Board by filing with the Board within 30 days a certified copy of
the orders of the City ABC Administrator. The Board shall hear matters at issue
as upon an original proceeding. Appeals from orders of the City ABC
Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13B.
   (B)   When any decision of the City ABC Administrator shall have been
appealed, or when a protest has been lodged against an application for any
license within the city, and the ABC Board shall have made a decision regarding
such appeal or protested application, the City ABC Administrator, upon receipt
of notice of finality of the decision, shall enter such orders and take such
action as required by the final order of the ABC Board. As provided by law, and
as used herein, no order of the ABC Board is final until all appeals or appeal
times shall have been exhausted. A final order of the ABC Board is the order
entered by said Board, unless an appeal is taken from the Board’s order, in
which case the final order is the order entered by the Board upon direction
from the reviewing court of last resort in the final order of said reviewing
court.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
**** APPLICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE ****
§ 115.060 ADVERTISEMENT.
   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant must
publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license in a
newspaper meeting the requirements of KRS Chapter 424, including the following.
   (A)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant.
It shall state the members of the partnership if the applicant is a
partnership, and membership of the LLC if the applicant is an LLC, as well as
the name of the business and its address. If the applicant is a corporation,
the advertisement shall state the names and addresses of the principal officers
and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and address of the
corporation itself. All advertisements shall state the location of the premises
for which the license is sought, and the type of license for which application
is made.
   (B)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping of
the advertisement and proof of the publication is provided in KRS 424.170.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.061 FORM OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the ABC
Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for renewals
of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided by the
State ABC Board and/or the city, both of which may be amended and supplemented
from time to time by each respective agency.
   (B)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought, as required by the state statutes, the State ABC Board, and the city,
including as follows:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date of residence was established in the state, if a resident of
the state;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a license
under this chapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cashier
check, or money order for the amount of the license fee, less the $50
application fee.
   (D)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant shall
file, with the application, responses to any additional questions as may be
posed or prescribed by the City ABC Administrator. The City Council has adopted
a statement of guidelines and priorities for the issuance of licenses within
this chapter to determine the extent to which applications may further, or
impede, the objectives of those guidelines. Therefore, in addition to the
information contained in the application, the City ABC Administrator may
require such other information as the Administrator may, in his or her
discretion, deem desirable, reasonable, or appropriate to the consideration of
the application.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.062 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions, or considerations required
or permitted by law shall be as follows.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by a licensed building inspector,
and any and all other inspections required by the State Building Code, being
KRS Chapter 198B, or other applicable law.
   (B)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background check
and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the City
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any property taxes,
both real and personal, any other taxes due to the city, fees of any type, or
charges due to any department of the city at the time of issuing the license,
nor may any license be granted or renewed to sell upon any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee upon which there are any of the
above delinquent payments due and owing to the city. Further, if a licensee
becomes delinquent in the payment of any of the above at any time during the
license period, the license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be subject
to revocation or suspension.
   (D)   No person, whether applicant for license, or a licensee, shall in any
manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence, or intimidate the City ABC
Administrator, or any member of the city’s staff, or any State ABC
Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division (D) is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence, or intimidation of a City or State ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations, or suspensions under
this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit monetary
settlements in lieu of revocation or suspension of license after a final order
or revocation or suspension, where the ordinance and applicable statutes allow
for such payments in settlement.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.063 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be provided by the ABC
Administrator, but at the least per state law shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
   (F)   The expiration date of the license; and
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.064 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment in writing giving notice of the change shall
be filed with the City ABC Administrator with ten days of the change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the City ABC Administrator. The
City ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
      (1)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC, or other
business organization herein, the word CHANGE is construed to include any
change in managers, partners, or LLC members, directors or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership, or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
      (2)   The following information shall be required concerning any new
manager, partner, or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in the state, if a resident of
the state. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or in any LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding
a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in
any LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a
license in any other state or province.
      (3)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as
a verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.065 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every year, except in the case of the temporary licenses, each
licensee shall renew its license. All renewal licenses must be on file with the
City ABC Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
license for the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except
where the licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises
licensed during the preceding license period as a result of construction, act
of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition of the
premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental agency or private
organization possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
existing lease; provided that said licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting
forth these facts, and the City ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to
extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length
of time within the sound discretion of the City ABC Administrator; provided,
however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the
former license or licenses. Said license fee shall not by payable until
application is made for the transfer of said license to a new location.
   (B)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator of the license shall not be
construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to
such renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.066 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator after the Administrator
shall have been satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that the
applicant for said duplicate license shall pay a fee of $10 for the duplicate
license.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.067 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC Administrator
if the licensee shall have violated any of other provisions of KRS Chapters 241
through 244, or any rule or regulation of the ABC Board, or of the Commonwealth
Department of Revenue, relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and
transportation, or taxation, of alcoholic beverages or if such licensee shall
have violated or shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of
any federal board, agency, or commission, or this chapter now, heretofore, or
hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and
transportation, or taxation, of intoxicating liquors, or any rules or
regulations of the city heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of
KRS Chapters 241 through 244 to be created, irrespective of whether the
licensee knew of or permitted the violation or whether the violation was
committed is disobedience of his or her instructions, or any such license may
be revoked or suspended for any cause which the City ABC Administrator in the
exercise of his or her sound discretion deems sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City ABC
Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be revoked
or suspended for the following causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages on the premises licensed;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license;
      (3)   If within a period of two consecutive years, any licensee or any
clerk, servant, agent, or employee of the licensee shall have been convicted of
two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapters 241 through 244 or
any act theretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic beverages or if within such
period, any licensee or any clerk, servant, agent, or employee of the license
shall have twice been convicted of any felony or of any misdemeanor directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages, or of one such
felony and one such misdemeanor;
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, this chapter, or acts of Congress relative to
taxation or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the Commonwealth
Department of Revenue made in pursuance thereof; and
      (5)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine, or contrivance, or lottery or
gift enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on
horse races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged
in, on the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance,
lottery, gift enterprise, handbook, or facility.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.068 PROCEEDINGS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of any
law enforcement officer, or of the City ABC Administrator, the City ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter. A license may be revoked or suspended only after
the licensee shall have been given written notice, by certified or registered
mail, of the proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such
proposed action. The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in
the last application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or
in amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
   (B)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall be those set out in the Kentucky Administrative
Procedure Act (KRS Chapter 13B).
   (C)   A decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed as provided in KRS 243.550.
   (D)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the City ABC Administrator. If the revoked or
suspended license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of
Police, at the request of the City ABC Administrator, shall immediately cause
one of his or her officers to take physical possession of the license and
return it to the City ABC Administrator.
   (E)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee may,
with prior approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his
or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or
suspending a license shall be to the ABC Board. The timely filing of an appeal
shall stay further proceedings for revocation.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall at once
suspend all operations authorized under his or her license. Upon the entry of a
final order of the ABC Board sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on
appeal, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized under this
license.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.069 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
as to licensee or location except with prior approval of the City ABC
Administrator and not then until a payment of $100 shall be made to the City
ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.070 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; GUIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OF QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator may refuse to issue a license for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490, and 243.500, as well as violation
of any city ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales, or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized under local, state, or federal law; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the City ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the ABC Board pursuant to KRS 241.200.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.071 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS, AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions of
any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to
manufacture or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the
filing of the quarterly report. In the case of caterer filing, the quarterly
report shall identity each catered event by type of event, date and address of
the event, and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of
food sales to alcohol sales during the reporting period. This requirement for
filing of reports notwithstanding, the city may at any time come upon the
premises of any licensee and examine the books and records to determine whether
the licensee is in compliance with all parts of this chapter. In the event the
conditions of any license requirement are not met during any particular
quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have discretion in determining
whether revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a
reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is
demonstrated by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator may apply an
accounting period of at least one year in determining whether or not the food
sale percentage requirement has been met.
   (B)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain, upon the
licensed premises, adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (C)   For the purpose of assisting the City ABC Administrator in enforcement
of this chapter, every licensee required to report to the ABC Board under KRS
243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City ABC Administrator.
Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the ABC Board required by
statute shall be furnished to the City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.072 DORMANCY.
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days. Such is the intent of this section.
Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her business
interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various exceptions to
the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (C) below are proved to the satisfaction of the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   (1)   The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply to any
licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a
license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental
agency under power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease. Prior to the expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such licensee shall
furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement setting forth the
fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business, for any of the
specific reasons set forth herein, and the City ABC Administrator may grant an
extension of the dormancy with the license continuing to remain in effect
during the license period or until same is transferred to another premises,
notwithstanding the fact that no business is transacted during said period;
provided, however, no such license shall be considered valid unless business is
conducted there under within 12 months from the date of notice to the City ABC
Administrator.
      (2)   Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be
for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of
his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
**** CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS, AND RESTRICTIONS ****
§ 115.085 GAMBLING.
   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
commonwealth shall be permitted in any form on such licensed premises. Dice,
slot machines, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall not be kept on
such premises.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.086 RADIO RECEIVING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to have,
or maintain, any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is
intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law
enforcement agency in the county as it is now, or may hereafter be operated
including K.S.P. Post #15. In addition to other penalties provided for the
violation of this section, the Chief of Police or the City ABC Administrator,
or his or her designated investigator, shall have the authority to confiscate
any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.087 SECURITY.
   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or her
premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers to
utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health, and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premises. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.088 PRIZES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter who sells alcoholic
beverages of any kind to give away or offer to give away anything tangible of
value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in direct connection with
the sale of alcoholic beverages nor shall any licensee give away any alcoholic
beverage in any quantity for less than a full monetary consideration.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.089 DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   (1)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit
any person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any
licensee sell alcoholic beverages to any person who is actually or apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages, or known to the seller or server to
be an habitual drunkard or any person known to the seller or server to have
been convicted of drunkenness as many as three times within the most recent 12-
month period.
      (2)   No licensee shall permit any person who is actually or apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages to remain on the licensed premises.
   (B)   As used herein, whether a person is actually or apparently under the
influence of alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the licensee or server
with specific reference to the principles and guidelines established in
mandatory alcohol server training as to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.090 UNDERAGE SALES.
   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any person
who is under 21 years of age. The licensee shall check all photo IDs to
ascertain that every person attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic
beverages is at least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.091 SIGN REQUIREMENTS; NOTICE TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21.
   Per state law, the licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place
a sign at least eight inches by 11 inches in 30-point or larger type font which
states as follows: Persons under the age of 21 are subject to a fine of up to
$100 if they:
   (A)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages;
   (B)   Possess, purchase, or attempt to purchase, or get another to purchase
alcoholic beverages; or
   (C)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.092 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements set forth in KRS 243.895, the licensee,
before commencing any business for which a license has been issued, shall post
and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the room or principal room
where the business is carried on so that all persons visiting the place may
readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any time post the license on
premises other than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in
alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than the license,
or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
   (B)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least 11 inches by 14 inches in size, with letters at least
one-inch high, supplied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and with
gender-neutral language supplied by the State Cabinet for Health and Family
Services, which shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to
conception or during pregnancy can cause birth defects.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.093 LEGAL TRANSACTIONS FOR WHOLESALERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND RETAIL.
   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the casual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. Nor
shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for
cash at time of purchase.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.094 EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her business
any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years;
   (B)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years;
   (C)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic beverages
or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol as
defined under state statute, unless said person is exempt or permitted under
certain circumstances as set forth in the state statutes and/or the state and
local alcoholic beverage control regulations; or
   (D)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has had
any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.095 HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS.
   Licensees shall not offer reduced drink specials (e.g., two-for-one, happy
hours) before 4:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, nor after the hour of 8:00
p.m. Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.096 LAVATORY FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   All retail beer and retail drink licenses shall be required to provide
indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such beverages
are consumed on the premises.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.097 NUDITY AND ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment activities,
including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture, television, slide
or stage shows, cabarets, or sexual entertainment centers on any licensed
premises. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity, whether actual or
simulated, upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet
t-shirt or wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, Jello
wrestling, or similar activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with
touching for compensation (including, but not limited to, wages, tips, or
gratuities), or any other service, display, or contest requiring physical
contact between patrons and/or patrons and employees on any licensed premises.
No licensee shall sponsor, offer, or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-
drink specials, or free drinks on any licensed premises in the city.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.098 DRIVE-THROUGH OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   No license shall be issued for any premises to operate a vehicle drive-
through outlet for the sale of alcoholic beverages, nor shall any person or
licensee operate or permit such a vehicle drive-through outlet. This
prohibition shall not apply to a drive-up window at any premises licensed for
retail package liquor, wine, or malt beverage, including retail beer, where the
primary sales area is arranged for and utilized by persons entering the
premises on foot and manually carrying out the products purchased therein.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.099 CAUSE FOR REVOCATION.
   Violation of this subchapter shall subject the licensee to penalties
provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
**** MINORS ****
§ 115.110 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED; NO PERSON SHALL AID POSSESSION BY
MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Chapters 241 through 244,
no person under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any
licensed premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085, no person under the age of 21, except in
the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises licensed for the
package sale of alcoholic beverages. For purposes of this prohibition, premises
specifically encompasses the entire lot upon which a licensed establishment is
situated, including any drive-up window. The prohibition contained in this
division (B) shall not apply to premises where the usual and customary business
of the establishment is a gas station, convenience store, grocery store,
drugstore, or similar establishment.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly permit, aid, assist, induce, cause, or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use, or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licenses, as set out in this chapter, shall require proof of age
of all persons attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages on the
licensee’s premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using, or consuming
alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals’ possession, consumption, or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individual’s possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by KRS 244.085(5).
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
**** CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES PROHIBITED ****
§ 115.125 CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PACKAGE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits,
wine, or malt beverages shall permit consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises. The licensee shall post a prominent notice on the premises stating
that consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises is prohibited.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.126 HABITUAL CONGREGATING.
   (A)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating a package liquor
store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages,
including retail package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed
premises so as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   Vacant property. No person or entity being the owner or otherwise in
possession or control of any vacant property shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of such property so
as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   Defense to prosecution. It shall be a defense to any prosecution under
this subchapter, if a licensed vendor or property owner shall permit the city
to post and maintain a legible, painted, or printed sign in at least two
separate prominent places in such area, in letters of not less than three
inches in height, stating that congregating of persons is prohibited, and that
violators shall be prosecuted for trespass pursuant to KRS 511.080.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.127 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, in addition to the definitions contained
in KRS Chapters 241 through 244, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HABITUAL. Consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use, but not
necessarily constant or exclusive.
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment selling distilled spirits,
wine, and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to licenses issued for
those purposes.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any activity that endangers or interferes with the general
use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passers-by or the health, safety,
and welfare of the public.
   VACANT PROPERTY. A vacant lot on which no building or other structure exists
or property on which any structure is unoccupied or unused, or which otherwise
reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the right of occupancy.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
**** MALT BEVERAGE KEG REGISTRATION ****
§ 115.140 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KEG. A container designed and capable of holding six or more gallons of malt
beverage.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.141 MALT BEVERAGE KEG IDENTIFICATION TAG.
   All retail licensees (herein after referred to as licensee) operating within
the city who sell malt beverages in kegs for consumption off the premises of
the licensee shall attach a numbered identification tag or other device as
provided by the city to each keg at the time of sale and shall require the
purchaser to complete and sign a keg registration form for the keg stating the
following:
   (A)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess, and use the malt
beverage;
   (B)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not allow
any person under the age of 21 to consume the malt beverage;
   (C)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate, or allow to be removed or
obliterated the identification tag;
   (D)   The purchaser will state the property address where the keg will be
consumed and physically located; and
   (E)   The purchaser is aware of his or her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.142 KEG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address, and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver’s
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
valid form of identification.
   (B)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for a
period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other
enforcement officers.
   (C)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the city within five
working days in all situations when the keg is not returned or is returned with
the identification tag removed or obliterated.
   (D)   The city is authorized to develop appropriate rules and regulations
and to develop and make available forms for the identification tags and keg
registration forms.
   (E)   All licensees that sell or offer kegs for sale shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.143 UNLAWFUL SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, kegs
without the identification tags attached and the keg registration form
completed. It shall also be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate
the identification tag or to fail to have the declaration form visible and
readily accessible from the location of the keg. The penalties for violation of
this section shall be the penalties as set out in this chapter. In addition,
licensees violating this section shall be subject to appropriate alcoholic
beverage control administrative remedies.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
**** PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES ****
§ 115.155 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Patio and outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages shall be permitted only
on premises licensed for sales of alcoholic beverages by the drink.
   (B)   No licensee shall offer alcoholic beverages for sale in a patio or
outdoor area of the licensee’s premises except in a clearly defined patio or
outdoor area that is enclosed by a fence or other screening, not less than four
feet in height. All outdoor areas and screening shall be subject to the
approval of the City ABC Administrator. An exception to this restriction may be
granted for seasonal sidewalk cafés, upon application to, and authorization
from the ABC City Administrator. The permission to operate a sidewalk café
shall be governed by the provisions of this subchapter and shall be subject to
the regulation of local zoning authorities as well as codes enforcement and
public safety officers.
   (C)   No licensee shall offer patio or outdoor sales of alcoholic beverages
unless the patio or outdoor area and fencing or screening area shall have been
approved in advance by the ABC Administrator.
   (D)   Unless exempted by the following provisions of this chapter, and by
permission of the City ABC Administrator, patio areas must comply with the
screening requirements of this chapter. Sidewalk café seating areas must comply
with this chapter and with local zoning laws and other public safety
requirements noted in this chapter, or in other local ordinances, statutes, or
regulations.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.156 EXCEPTIONS TO SCREENING REQUIREMENTS FOR OUTDOOR SALES AND SERVICE OF
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request an
exception from the outdoor screening of patio provision in order to permit
seasonal sidewalk cafés that serve food and alcoholic beverages as an adjunct
to the primary and adjacent licensed premises. In the case of permitted
sidewalk cafés, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
   (B)   Any food establishment which operates a restaurant and is licensed
under this chapter and the provisions of the State ABC Code, may, upon
application to the local ABC Administrator, ask permission to expand the
operation of that restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public
sidewalk which immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred
to as sidewalk café). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible to
apply for a sidewalk café permit.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016)
§ 115.157 CONDITIONS FOR SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT.
   The issuance of a permit shall be subject to the following conditions and
restrictions; provided, however, that the ABC Administrator may without adverse
hearing procedures impose additional reasonable restrictions or withdraw
approval upon the operation of any sidewalk café where necessary in the
judgment of the said Administrator to protect the public health, safety, or
welfare or to prevent a nuisance from developing or continuing.
   (A)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted in any manner to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
   (B)   No tables, chairs, or any other furnishings, except plant tubs, shall
be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when the
sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the end
of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas, tables,
chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area shown on
the approved permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and chairs
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café shall
not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including, but not limited
to, trees, light poles, traffic signals, pull boxes, or manholes, or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times.
   (D)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law, take
reasonable steps to ensure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby or persons
who are not of age or who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
   (E)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers, or guests.
   (F)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
   (G)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
   (H)   The licensee must at all times comply with all federal, state, and
local laws regarding the sale, service, and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
   (I)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.158 OTHER REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO SIDEWALK CAFÉS.
   No sidewalk café permit shall be effective unless the licensee has filed
with the ABC Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the licensee against
liability imposed by law arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or
operation of such sidewalk café, in an amount to be established by the Mayor.
The city shall be named an additional insured in the policy required. Such
insurance policy shall further provide expressly that it may not be canceled
except upon ten day’s written notice (or more) filed with the Mayor’s office.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in County District
Court against an alleged violator, the City ABC Administrator may assess the
fines and penalties authorized in KRS 243.480, including the per diem
assessments for ongoing violations. Should the fines or penalties assessed by
the state change under KRS 243.480, then the fines or penalties under this
chapter shall be adjusted accordingly to mirror the fines or penalties imposed
by state law. Payment of all fines shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator, who shall then transmit the fines to the City Clerk/Treasurer
for deposit in the appropriate designated account.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and subject to prosecution in the county court system, as
follows: for the first offense, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500,
or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both. The penalties provided for
in this division (B) shall be in addition to the revocation or suspension of
the offender’s license. If the offender is a corporation, LLC, joint stock
company, association, or other business organization, or a fiduciary, the
principal officer or officers responsible for the violation may be imprisoned.
   (C)   A person who violates §
115.092 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50.
(Ord. 2016/17-02, passed 8-5-2016; Ord. 2025-26-08, passed 3-2-2026)
CHAPTER 116: RECYCLERS AND SALVAGE YARDS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Unauthorized recyclers prohibited
   
116.03   Permit; conditions; screening
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE, VEHICLE, OR MACHINERY RECYCLERS. Any place where five or more
junked, wrecked, or non-operative automobiles, vehicles, machines, and other
similar scrap or salvage materials, or any combination thereof, including
inoperative farm equipment, are deposited, parked, placed, or otherwise
located, or any business as defined in this section where ten or more junked,
wrecked, or non-operative automobiles, vehicles, machines, and other similar
scrap or salvage materials are deposited, parked, placed, or otherwise located.
   BUSINESS. Any person engaged as an automobile dealer, body shop operator,
wrecker service operator, service station operator, or other activity which may
buy, sell, or repair non-operative vehicles, automobiles, or machinery as a
service.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the State Department of Highways.
   DEPARTMENT. The Kentucky Department of Highways.
   MATERIAL RECYCLERS. Any establishment or place of business, including
garbage dumps and sanitary fills, maintained, operated, or used for storing,
keeping, buying, selling of old scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries,
paper, trash, rubber debris, waste, or motor vehicle parts, iron, steel, and
other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
   OPERATOR. A person, firm, or corporation operating an automobile, vehicle,
machinery, or material recycling establishment or place of business or the
allowing of such automobile, vehicle, machinery, or material recycling
establishment or place of business to be placed or deposited, or to remain on
premises owned or controlled by such person, firm, or corporation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, agency, company, association, partnership,
business trust, joint stock company, body politic, or corporation.
   ROAD. Any city, county, state, federal, or limited access highway or
turnpike, including bridges and bridge approaches.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 116.02 UNAUTHORIZED RECYCLERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any automobile,
vehicle, machinery, or material recycling establishment or place of business
which is situated closer than 1,000 feet from the right-of-way line of any road
unless a permit for such shall have been obtained from the State Department of
Highways pursuant to KRS 177.905 et seq.
   (B)   The operation of any automobile, vehicle, machinery, or material
recycling establishment or place of business so situated without a permit is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 4-15-2008) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 PERMIT; CONDITIONS; SCREENING.
   (A)   The permit required by §
116.02 and KRS 177.910 shall be issued in accordance with the administrative
regulations of the Department. When an automobile, vehicle, machinery, or
material recycling establishment or place of business is located closer than
1,000 feet from the right-of-way line of any road is so far as deemed
practical, hidden from view of motorists using such road by an artificial or
natural screen, or is by virtue of natural topography so hidden. The screening
required in this section may be effected by the construction of a fence, or by
planting shrubs, trees, or flowering plants, the foliage of which shall,
immediately upon planting, provide a sufficient screen or by making use of
foliage already in existence.
   (B)   Any automobile, vehicle, machinery, or material recycling
establishment or place of business that cannot as a practical matter be
screened, shall be required to be removed.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any other penalty provided by KRS 177.910 to 177.990, any
person violating any order or provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $100 and not more than $1,000. Each day of violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 4-15-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Trading livestock on streets prohibited
Possession or Sale of Cannabinoids Prohibited
   
130.15   Declaration of findings and policy
   
130.16   Definitions
   
130.17   Possession of cannabinoids
   
130.18   Trafficking in cannabinoids
   
130.19   Applicability of state law
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal provisions generally, see
Chapter 90
   Prohibition of cannabis business operations, see §
110.10
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 130.01 TRADING LIVESTOCK ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to congregate upon the
streets of the city for the purpose of trading livestock, or what is commonly
known as horse-jockeying.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 6, passed 10-17-1946) Penalty, see §
130.99
**** POSSESSION OR SALE OF CANNABINOIDS PROHIBITED ****
§ 130.15 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND POLICY.
   The city finds that herbal incense products marketed in the United States
that provide a marijuana-like high when smoked have become increasingly
popular, particularly among teens and young adults and that these products
consist of plant material that has been laced with chemicals that have not been
approved by the FDA for human consumption. The city further finds that the
commonwealth has moved to prohibit the sale and possession of similar products,
but the changing nature of the products has resulted in the availability of
herbal incense products that exceed the commonwealth’s definition and statues,
and therefore are not properly regulated by the commonwealth. The city is aware
that the side effects of the unregulated herbal incense products pose a threat
to the public health and safety of the citizens of the city and it is in the
best interest of the city to regulate the sale and use of such products.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 130.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AM CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids, including, but not limited to,
AM-087; AM-251; AM-281; AM-356; AM-374; AM-381; AM-404; AM-411; AM-630; AM-661;
AM-678; AM-679; AM-694; AM-855; AM-881; AM-883; AM-905; AM-906; AM-919; AM-926;
AM-938; AM-1116; AM-1172; AM-1220; AM-1221; AM-1235; AM-1241; AM-1248; AM-2201;
AM-2212; AM-2213; AM-2232; AM-2233; AM-2102; and AM-4030. The term shall not
include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed in accordance
with state and federal law.
   CP CANNABINOIDS. CP-47,497; (C6)-CP-47,497; (C7)-CP-47,497; (C8)-CP-47,497;
(C9)-CP-47,497; CP-50,556-1; CP-55,244; CP-55,940; and CP-945,598. The term
shall not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed
in accordance with state and federal law.
   HU CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids, including, but not limited to,
HU-210; HU-211; HU-243; HU-308; HU-320; HU-331; HU-336; and HU-345. The term
shall not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed
in accordance with state and federal law.
   JWH CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids, including, but not limited to,
JWH-007; JWH-015; JWH-018; JWH-019; JWH-030; JWH-047; JWH-048; JWH-051; JWH-
057; JWH-073; JWH-081; JWH-098; JWH-116; JWH-120; JWH-122; JWH-133; JWH-139;
JWH-147; JWH-148; JWH-149; JWH-161; JWH-164; JWH-166; JWH-167; JWH-171; JWH-
175; JWH-176; JWH-181; JWH-182; JWH-184; JWH-185; JWH-192; JWH-193; JWH-194;
JWH-195; JWH-196; JWH-197; JWR-198; JWH-199; JWH-200; JWH-203; JWH-205; JWH-
210; JWH-213; JWH-229; JWH-234; JWH-249; JWH-250; JWH-251; JWH-253; JWH-258;
JWH-300; JWH-302; JWH-307; JWH-336; JWH-350; JWH-359; JWH-387; JWH-398; and
JWH-424. The term shall not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a
prescription, are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration,
and are dispensed in accordance with state and federal law.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, group, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, limited liability company, or any other
business entity. For the purposes of this subchapter, the president, managers,
owners, shareholders, partners, members, or other persons in charge of the
business shall be responsible to require the business to comply with this
subchapter and shall likewise be subject to the penalties imposed for
violations of this subchapter by the business entity.
   POSSESSION. To have actual physical possession or otherwise to exercise
actual dominion or control over a tangible object.
   TRAFFIC. To manufacture, distribute, dispense, sell, transfer, or possess
with intent to manufacture, distribute, dispense, or sell a controlled
substance.
   TRANSFER. To dispose of a controlled substance to another person without
consideration and not in furtherance of commercial distribution.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 130.17 POSSESSION OF CANNABINOIDS.
   A person is guilty of possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and unlawfully
possesses AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or HU
cannabinoids.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 TRAFFICKING IN CANNABINOIDS.
   A person is guilty of trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and unlawfully
traffics in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids, or HU
cannabinoids.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   If current or future state law prohibits any substance(s) contained in this
subchapter, the state law shall be applied instead of this subchapter for both
prosecution and penalty.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §§
130.15 through
130.19 concerning possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $250 and jail time
not to exceed 90 days.
      (2)   Any person who violates the provision of §§
130.15 through
130.19 concerning trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH
cannabinoids, or HU cannabinoids shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $250 and jail time
not to exceed 90 days.
      (3)   Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense and
no additional notice other than notice of the original offense shall be
required to convict a person for multiple violations resulting from a
continuation of such offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-2-2012)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption State Building Code
   
150.02   Designated enforcement officer
   
150.03   Building inspection program
   
150.04   Permits and fees
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The State Building Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the State
Residential Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Board of Housing,
Buildings, and Construction, of the commonwealth, are hereby adopted in full as
if set out at length herein.
   (B)   A copy of said State Building Code is on file in the Office of the
County Clerk, and the Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of said Building
Code for reference.
   (C)   An attested copy of this section shall be transmitted to the Office of
Housing, Buildings, and Construction of the commonwealth.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 150.02 DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The county shall be designated as the local enforcement agency for said
State Building Code. All building code inspections shall be performed by
persons certified by the State Office of Housing, Buildings, and Construction.
All electrical inspections shall be performed by a state certified electrical
inspector specifically approved by this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 150.03 BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building inspection program is hereby
established in the city for application to all buildings.
   (B)   Local jurisdictions may adopt, by ordinance, single-family dwellings
as provided in the adopted codes.
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 150.04 PERMITS AND FEES.
   The fees for permits and inspections shall be as set forth below.
Inspection Fee Schedule1
Inspection Fee Schedule1
Multiplex units - fee per unit:
   Less than 4 units                                                           Same as below
   4 or more units to 125 amp each                                             $60
   126 amp to 225 amp each                                                     $80
Reinspection fee                                                                  $50
Single-phase farm, residential and small commercial
   0 to 125 amp                                                                $65
   126 to 225 amp                                                              $85
   225 to 400 amp                                                              $105
Single trip inspections
   Added wiring                                                                $50
   Extra trip                                                                  $50
   HVAC                                                                        $50
   Meter poles                                                                 $50
   Mobile homes                                                                $50
   Repair/replace wiring                                                       $50
   Service entrance conversion                                                 $50
   Temporary service                                                           $50
Three-phase commercial and industrial
   If electrical contract, including labor and materials, is $10,000 or less   $115
   If electrical contract, including labor and materials, is over $10,000      $115, plus 1% of the electrical contract in excess of $10,0002
   If no electrical contract exists or its value is unknown when the permit is Based on $0.40 per amp of the customer’s affected service equipment as
requested                                                                         determined by the electrical inspector at his or her discretion
Notes to Table:
   1   Inspection fees include a rough-in and final inspection on concealed wiring installations
   2   Material costs for calculating inspection fees shall include switchgear, sub-panels, boxes, fittings, conduit, wire, lighting fixtures, motor
controls, and the like
 
(Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-2-2012)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Purpose; objectives
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Application jurisdiction
   
151.06   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
151.07   Compliance
   
151.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.09   Interpretation
   
151.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Permits
   
151.25   Development permit required; application
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
151.43   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.44   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
Administration
   
151.55   Designation of Local Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
151.56   Variance procedures
 
   
151.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in KRS Chapter 100 et seq., delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.03 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (B)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditures of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in flood plains;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future
flood blight areas; and
      (7)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the city’s interpretation of any provision
of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts or piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM, or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRM effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
specific flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), that is, top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a building.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. part 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved
property.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with NATIONAL
GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the city’s floodplain management regulations
(Ord. 3-1987, passed 6-1-1987) and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city’s floodplain management regulations (being Ord. 3-1987, passed
6-1-1987).
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD. See BASE FLOOD.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a
building (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, or filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main building. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
alteration, or improvements to a building, taking place during a five-year
period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the building. The market value of the building should be the appraised value
of the building prior to the start of the initial repair or improvement, or in
the case of damage, the value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. For the purposes of this
definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. The term does not, however, include either any
project for improvement of a building required to comply with existing health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the Code
Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to assure safe living
conditions, or any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.05 APPLICATION JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.06 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study dated January 9, 1976, with
accompanying maps and other supporting data, and any revisions thereto, are
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.07 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. The chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, or by any officer or
employee thereof, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
**** PERMITS ****
§ 151.25 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities.
   (B)   (1)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Local
Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any development
activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; and
         (b)   Existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials,
drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
      (2)   Specifically, the following information is required:
         (a)   Application stage.
            1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all buildings;
            2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential building will be flood-proofed;
            3.   Certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the non-residential flood-proofed building meets the flood-
proofing criteria in §
151.41(B) of this chapter; and
            4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
         (b)   Construction stage. Provide a floor elevation or flood-proofing
certification after the lowest floor is completed.
            1.   Upon placement of the lowest floor, or flood-proofing by
whatever construction means, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Local Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea
level. The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision
of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building, the certification
shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer
or architect and certified by same. Any work undertaken prior to the submission
of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk.
            2.   The Local Administrator shall review the floor elevation
survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected
by the permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make the
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992) Penalty, see §
151.99
**** FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 151.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent floatation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a building
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a building
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
undertaken only if the nonconformity is not furthered, extended, or replaced.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
151.06 or
151.55(B)(9) of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated one foot above the base flood elevation. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of division (C) below.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential building
(or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated one foot above the base flood elevation. Buildings located in all A
Zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated, provided that all areas
of the building below the required elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and use structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the standards of this division (B) are satisfied.
Such certificates shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
151.55(B)(7) of this chapter.
   (C)   Elevated buildings. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and
other exterior walls below the base flood elevation shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate
rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved outside of
a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood must
meet all the requirements for new construction, including elevation and
anchoring.
      (2)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or
above the level of the base flood elevation;
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers,
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above grade;
         (c)   The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement; and
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, any
manufactured home placed or substantially improved must meet the standards of
divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(2)(c) above.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is READY FOR HIGHWAY USE if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect-type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
151.06 of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments, unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a professional registered engineer or architect
is provided demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase
in flood levels during occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If division (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.06 of this chapter, where streams exist but where no base flood data has
been provided, or where base flood data has been provided without floodways,
the following provisions apply.
   (A)   (1)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures, shall
be located within areas of special flood hazard unless certification by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (2)   The engineering certification should be supported by technical data
that conforms to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of buildings shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.55(B)(9) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.43 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.44 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.06 of this chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to
three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. Therefore, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements or residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city’s FIRM. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above highest
adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the
city’s FIRM. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including
basement, shall be elevated at least two feet above highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities, be
completely flood-proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 151.55 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Local Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The duties of the Local Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required, and if specific federal or state permit requirements are known,
require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the
development permit;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Division of Water prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (4)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (5)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved buildings in accordance §
151.25(B)(2)(b) of this chapter;
      (6)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the new or substantially improved buildings have been flood-
proofed in accordance with §
151.25(B)(2)(b) of this chapter;
      (7)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building, the
Local Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered professional
engineer or architect, in accordance with §
151.41(B) of this chapter;
      (8)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Local Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
      (9)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
151.06 of this chapter, then the Local Administrator shall obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal,
state, or other source in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.40 through
151.44 of this chapter; and
      (10)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Local Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
(Ord. passed 6-1-92)
§ 151.56 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Appeal Board as established by the city shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Appeal Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Local Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court, as provided in
the state statutes.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (see §
151.04 of this chapter for definition) upon determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
   (E)   In passing upon such applications, the City Appeal Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, in the case
of a functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the City Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief, and in the instance of a historical building, a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character
and design of the building;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a
variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances;
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the building is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation; and
      (4)   The Local Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay
all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing contained herein shall prevent
the city from taking such other lawful actions as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1992)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   FRANCHISES
      
VI.   ACCEPTANCES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
5-    4-1-   Annexing territory surrounding the boundary of the city, beginning at a
1958  1958   point on South Fork Creek where the old road back of the Edmonton Stock
             Yards intersects said creek
2-    8-7-   Annexing territory surrounding the boundary of the city beginning at the
1961  1961   northwest corner of Curt Coleman's lot
             Annexing certain territory described as being where Glasgow Road
1-    4-1-   intersects the Rogers Creek, said point now being on the present city
1963  1963   boundary line; thence west with the north bank of Rogers Creek to a
             point where said Rogers Creek intersects U.S. Highway 68
             Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the center of Clay
R. —5-3-   Lick Creek, about two miles west of the Edmonton Public Square, said
      1976   point being on the northern right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 68, Ky.
             Highway 80
      7-12-  Annexing certain property beginning at an iron pipe 50 feet south of the
R. —1976   centerline of U.S. Highway 68 (Ky. Highway 80), a corner with Eugene
             Wyatt, in the western section of the city
      9-13-  Annexing certain property beginning at the existing city limits on or
R. —1976   near Highway 68 at Douglas Creek; thence, with the south property line
             of Rowe, S 84 degrees E, 260 feet more or less to a point
             Annexing three areas: (1) Certain property beginning at a point in the
             centerline of Highway 68-80, said point being the west corporate limits
             of the city, and N 32° 45' E 50' from an iron pipe in the common corner
      9-10-  of Eugene Wyatt and the Miller Subdivision; (2) Certain property
R. —1979   beginning at a point to the south of Highway 68-80, said point being in
             the east line of the Sartin Brothers Property and the southwest corner
             of the existing corporate limits; and (3) Certain property beginning at
             a point in the east right-of-way of Highway 68, said point being in the
             south property line of Rowe and the existing corporate limits
2003- 1-5-   Annexing certain property beginning at a set iron pin in the line of
17    2004   Mitchell and Rowena Hood, a new corner of Tract #4
2005- 1-9-   Annexing tract of land for the city park beginning at a point in the
18    2006   line of Curtis Clemons and in the line of the existing corporate city
             limits
2017- 10-9-  Annexation of property beginning at an existing iron pin, a corner to
18-03 2017   the existing corporate limits on the south right-of-way of the
             Cumberland Parkway, being Area 4
2017- 10-9-  Annexation of property beginning at a point on the right-of-way of U.S.
18-04 2017   Highway 80 in the line of the existing corporate limits, being Area 5
2017- 2-5-   Amending Ord. 2017-18-03 which annexed certain property in the city in
18-08 2018   the right-of-way of Cumberland Parkway
2017- 5-7-   Annexation of property beginning at a point 500 feet south of the
18-09 2018   centerline of U.S. Highway 68 and Ky. Highway 80, in the line of the
             existing corporate limits, being Area 7
            
 
TABLE II: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Providing for the issuance of $40,000 principal amount of
—      7-7-1949    city waterworks revenue bonds for the purpose of defraying
                     the costs of constructing a waterworks system in and for
                     the city
                     Authorizing and providing for the issuance of $160,000 of
                     the city's natural gas system revenue bonds for the
1-1959   1-30-1959   purpose of defraying the cost of a public project
                     consisting of the acquisition by construction of a natural
                     gas distribution system for the city
                     Authorizing the merger of the water distribution system of
                     the Summer Shade Water District into the city's water and
—      7-7-1980    sewer systems; authorizing the issuance of $86,000 of the
                     city's water and sewer revenue bonds, series of 1980 to
                     provide part of the cost of construction of extensions,
                     additions, and improvements to said merged systems
—      1-21-1985   Authorizing the sale and delivery of $598,000 water and
                     revenue bonds, series of 1984
                     Authorizing the construction of extensions, additions, and
                     improvements to the city's combined and consolidated water
—      3-1-1993    and sewer system, and authorizing the issuance of $331,000
                     of the city's water and sewer revenue bonds, series of
                     1993
                     Authorizing the construction of extensions, additions, and
                     improvements to the city's combined and consolidated water
—      12-4-1995   and sewer system, and authorizing the issuance of $444,000
                     of the city's water and sewer revenue bonds, series A of
                     1995 (Southwest Project)
                    
 
TABLE III: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Providing for the construction of a natural gas
29         4-5-1956    distribution system of the city and approving the
                       certain contracts relating thereto
—        4-5-1993    Approving the city traffic agreement
                       Interlocal agreement with the Kentucky Municipal Risk
2001-05    7-19-2001   Management Association for joint and cooperative program
                       for self-insurance, insurance, and the investment of
                       public funds
                       Interlocal agreement with Metcalfe County Fiscal Court,
2013-05    8-5-2013    Barren County Fiscal Court, City of Cave City, and City
                       of Glasgow relating to the Barren-Metcalfe Emergency
                       Communications Center
2016-17-12 3-6-2017    Contract with Mediacom for renewal of cable, internet,
                       and telephone services
                      
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting easement to the Edmonton Water District, and to
—      5-4-1981    its successors and assigns, the right and easement to
                     install sewer and water lines over and through any and all
                     property located within the city
                    
 
TABLE V: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-1987   3-6-1987    Establishing a community antenna television system
                     franchise for the city
2001-14  1-7-2002    Franchise with Mediacom Southeast, LLC for cable services
                     for 15 years
                     Franchise with South Central Rural Telephone Cooperative
2002-02  5-6-2002    Corporation, Inc. for telecommunication services for 20
                     years
                    
 
TABLE VI: ACCEPTANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2009-04  8-3-2009    Acceptance of dedication of cross street between Dial
                     Street and Shirley Street, being 172 feet long
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                            Code Section
6.050                                  32.48
6.955 to 6.975                         33.04
                                       93.06;
Chapter 13B                            115.046;
                                       115.068
15.409                                 34.26
16.220                                 72.26
18A.225                                113.03
39B.020                                38.02
41.240(4)                              33.05
42.450 to 42.495                       33.04
43.050                                 33.04
Chapter 45A                            34.26
Chapter 56                             34.26
Chapter 61                             32.21
61.168                                 34.26
61.169                                 34.26
61.362                                 73.05
61.823(2) to (4)                       91.035
61.870 et seq.                         34.26
61.870 to 61.882                       31.36
61.870 to 61.884                       34.27
61.870(1)                              34.01
61.870(2)                              34.01
61.870(3)                              34.01
61.870(4)                              34.01
61.870(5)                              34.01
61.870(6)                              34.01
61.870(7)                              34.01
61.870(8)                              34.01
61.870(9)                              34.01
61.870(10)                             34.01
61.872 to 61.884                       37.25
61.872(1)—(3)                        34.15
61.872(4)                              34.16
61.872(5)                              34.17
61.872(6)                              34.18
61.874(1)                              34.22
61.874(2)                              34.22
61.874(3)                              34.23
61.874(4)                              34.23
61.874(5)                              34.24
61.874(6)                              34.25
61.878                                 34.01
61.878(1)                              34.26
61.878(2)                              34.26
61.878(3)                              34.26
61.878(4)                              34.26
61.878(5)                              34.26
61.878(6)                              34.26
61.880(1)                              34.19
61.884                                 34.21
62.060                                 31.04
Chapter 65                             37.03
65.067                                 31.04
65.120                                 Chapter 72
65.8801                                93.99
65.8840                                92.04
66.660                                 91.020
67.750(7)                              114.01
82.082                                 37.03;
                                       52.35
Chapter 83A                            31.20
83A.010 to 83A.120                     30.01
83A.010(5)                             10.02
83A.010(6)                             10.02
83A.010(8)                             10.02
83A.030(1)                             30.02
83A.040(1)                             31.21
83A.040(2)(a), (6)                     31.21
83A.040(2)(c)                          31.21
83A.040(2)(d)                          31.21
83A.040(3)                             31.21
83A.040(4)                             32.01
83A.040(5)                             32.02
83A.040(6)                             32.02
83A.040(7)                             31.21;
                                       32.02
83A.040(8)                             31.21;
                                       32.02
83A.040(9)                             31.03
83A.050                                31.20;
                                       32.01
83A.060(1)                             32.35
83A.060(2)                             32.36
83A.060(3)                             32.37
83A.060(4)                             32.38
83A.060(5)                             32.40
83A.060(6)                             32.22
83A.060(7)                             32.38
83A.060(8)                             32.41
83A.060(8)(a), (b)                     32.42
83A.060(9)                             32.43
83A.060(10)                            32.44
83A.060(11)                            32.45
83A.060(12)                            32.46
83A.060(13)                            32.46
83A.060(14)                            32.47
83A.060(15)                            32.48
83A.065                                10.99
83A.070                                31.02
83A.070(1)                             31.02
83A.070(2)                             31.02
83A.070(3)                             31.02
83A.075                                31.02
83A.080                                31.40;
                                       37.04
83A.080(1)                             31.35
83A.080(2), (3)                        31.35
83A.080(3)                             31.03;
                                       31.35
83A.080(4)                             31.20
83A.080(5)                             31.20
83A.085                                31.36
83A.090                                31.41
83A.130 to 83A.150                     31.21
83A.130(1)                             30.01
83A.130(2)                             30.02
83A.130(3)                             31.21
83A.130(4)                             31.21
83A.130(5)                             32.20
83A.130(6)                             32.39
83A.130(7)                             31.21
83A.130(8)                             31.21
83A.130(9)                             31.21
83A.130(10)                            31.21
83A.130(11)                            32.03;
                                       32.21
83A.130(12)                            32.03
83A.130(13)                            32.03
83A.175                                32.02
91A.010                                33.01
91A.010(4)                             10.02
91A.010(8)                             10.02
91A.020                                33.02
91A.030                                33.03
91A.040                                33.04
91A.050                                33.04
91A.060                                33.05
91A.080                                114.03
91A.080(2)                             113.02
91A.080(3)                             113.03
91A.080(7)                             113.04
91A.080(8)                             113.04;
                                       113.05
91A.080(9)                             113.04
91A.080(10)                            113.03
91A.080(13)                            113.03
91A.0804                               Chapter 113
91A.200                                33.16
91A.210                                33.15
91A.220                                33.16
91A.230                                33.17
91A.240                                33.18
91A.250                                33.19
91A.260                                33.20
91A.270                                33.21
91A.280                                33.22
91A.290                                33.23
Chapter 95                             40.03
95.440                                 40.16
Chapter 100 et seq.                    151.01
Chapter 107                            33.16
Chapters 116 to 121                    31.20
118.305(7)                             31.21;
                                       32.02
131.010(6)                             113.04
131.190                                34.26
132.285                                35.01
134.800                                35.05
134.810                                35.05
Chapter 136                            35.25
136.120                                114.03
139.200                                93.03
Chapter 154                            34.26
154.50-326                             40.02
174.100(1)                             91.035
174.100(2)                             91.036
174.100(3)                             91.037
174.100(4)                             91.038
174.100(5)                             91.039
174.100(6)                             91.040
174.400 et seq.                        97.01
177.041                                91.095
177.043                                91.095
177.047                                91.095
177.905 et seq.                        116.02
177.910                                116.03
177.910 to 177.990                     116.99
178.290                                91.020
186.020                                72.26
186.560                                71.30
186A.145                               72.26
186A.190                               72.26
                                       73.22;
Chapter 189                            73.37;
                                       73.52
189.020                                71.32
189.285                                73.02
189.286                                73.22
189.287                                73.01
189.290                                71.30
189.330(8)                             71.02
189.338                                70.20
189.450(5)                             72.03
189.450(6)                             72.03
189.580                                71.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a. to 189.635(9)(b)1.e. 34.01
189.700                                73.05
189.725                                72.08
189.820                                73.21
189.930                                71.31
189.990                                71.15
189.990(1)                             72.99
189.993(8)                             71.99
196.099                                34.01
Chapter 198B                           115.062
198B.060(8)                            150.03
218B.010                               110.10
220.135                                51.005
226.010                                112.01
226.020                                112.02
226.030                                112.07
226.040                                112.03
226.050                                112.04
226.060                                112.08
226.070                                112.03
226.080                                112.05
226.090                                112.06
226.100                                112.08
226.990(1)                             112.99
226.990(3)                             112.99
Chapter 227                            93.02
227.330(6)                             93.03
227.700                                93.01
227.700 to 227.750                     93.01;
                                       93.06
227.702                                93.01
227.704                                93.01
227.706                                93.01
227.708                                93.01
227.715                                93.03
227.720                                93.04
227.730                                93.05
227.750                                93.06
227.990(4)                             93.99
                                       115.002;
                                       115.003;
                                       115.005;
Chapters 241 to 244                    115.045;
                                       115.067;
                                       115.110;
                                       115.127
241.010(39)                            115.026
241.090                                115.007
241.100                                115.045
241.160                                115.045
241.170                                115.045
241.200                                115.070
Chapter 243                            115.026
243.030                                115.025
243.070                                115.025
243.075                                115.029
243.230(2)                             115.010
243.260                                115.026
243.450                                115.070
243.480                                115.999
243.490                                115.070
243.500                                115.070
243.550                                115.068
243.850                                115.071
243.895                                115.092
244.085                                115.110
244.085(5)                             115.110
244.150                                115.045
257.010                                90.01
257.100                                90.06
281.605(12)                            72.26
281.920 to 281.936                     72.26
281.926                                72.26
281.928                                72.26
281.928(1)                             72.26
281.932                                72.26
Chapter 304, Subtitle 17B              113.03
                                       73.22;
304.39-080                             73.37;
                                       73.52
Chapter 318                            51.052;
                                       52.36
Chapter 342                            113.03
359.230                                72.26
376.275(1)                             72.26
376.275(2)                             72.26
376.275(3)                             72.27
376.275(4)                             72.27
411.500 to 411.570                     Chapter 92
                                       32.43;
                                       33.04;
Chapter 424                            33.19;
                                       33.20;
                                       115.060
424.120                                33.04
424.170                                115.060
424.220(6)(b)                          33.04
436.600                                90.04;
                                       90.99
446.010(1)                             10.02
446.010(2)                             10.02
446.010(9)                             10.02
446.010(10)                            10.02
446.010(12)                            10.02
446.010(13)                            10.02
446.010(14)                            10.02
446.010(15)                            10.02
446.010(17)                            10.02
446.010(18)                            10.02
446.010(23)                            10.02
446.010(25)                            10.02
446.010(26)                            10.02
446.010(27)                            10.02
446.010(28)                            10.02
446.010(30)                            10.02
446.010(31)                            10.02
446.010(33)                            10.02
446.010(37)                            10.02
446.010(39)                            10.02
446.010(43)                            10.02
446.010(46)                            10.02
446.010(47)                            10.02
446.010(49)                            10.02
446.010(55)                            10.02
446.020(1)                             10.03
446.020(2)                             10.03
446.030                                10.04
446.050                                10.05
446.060                                10.06
446.080(1)                             10.03
446.080(3)                             10.03
446.080(4)                             10.03
446.090                                10.07
446.100                                10.08
446.110                                10.09
446.140                                10.01
511.080                                115.126
512.020 to 512.030                     51.006
520.010                                34.01
525.125                                90.03
525.130                                90.03;
                                       90.99
534.040(2)(c)                          10.99
                                       
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2026 Code Section
31.33              31.38
31.37              31.37
31.39              31.39
31.40              31.40
35.02              35.02
35.03              35.03
35.04              35.04
35.15              35.25
37.01              37.01
37.02              37.02
37.03              37.03
37.04              37.04
37.05              37.05
37.15              37.20
37.16              37.21
37.17              37.22
37.18              37.23
37.19              37.24
37.20              37.25
37.21              37.26
37.22              37.27
37.35              37.40
37.36              37.41
37.37              37.42
37.38              37.43
37.39              37.44
37.40              37.45
37.99              37.99
38.01              38.01
38.02              38.02
38.03              38.03
38.04              38.04
39.01              39.15
39.02              39.16
39.03              39.17
39.04              39.18
39.15              39.30
39.16              39.31
39.17              39.32
39.18              39.33
39.19              39.34
39.20              39.35
39.21              39.36
39.22              39.37
50.01              50.01
50.99              50.99
51.001             51.001
51.002             51.002
51.003             51.003
51.004             51.004
51.005             51.005
51.006             51.006
51.015             51.020
51.016             51.021
51.017             51.022
51.018             51.023
51.019             51.024
51.030             51.035
51.031             51.036
51.045             51.050
51.046             51.051
51.047             51.052
51.048             51.053
51.060             51.065
51.061             51.066
51.062             51.067
51.063             51.068
51.064             51.069
51.065             51.070
51.066             51.071
51.067             51.072
51.080             51.085
51.081             51.086
51.082             51.087
51.083             51.088
51.084             51.089
51.085             51.090
51.086             51.091
51.087             51.092
51.088             51.093
51.089             51.094
51.090             51.095
51.091             51.096
51.092             51.097
51.093             51.098
51.105             51.110
51.106             51.111
51.115             51.125
51.116             51.126
51.117             51.127
51.130             51.140
51.131             51.141
51.132             51.142
51.133             51.143
51.134             51.144
51.135             51.145
51.136             51.146
51.999             51.999
52.01              52.15
52.02              52.16
52.03              52.17
52.04              52.18
52.05              52.19
52.06              52.20
52.07              52.21
52.99              52.99
53.01              53.01
53.02              53.02
91.45              91.070
91.46              91.071
91.47              91.072
91.48              91.073
91.49              91.074
91.50              91.075
91.51              91.076
91.52              91.077
91.53              91.078
91.54              91.079
91.55              91.080
91.56              91.081
91.57              91.082
91.58              91.083
91.70              91.095
91.99              91.999
92.01              92.01
92.02              92.02
92.03              92.03
92.04              92.04
92.05              92.05
92.15              92.20
92.16              92.21
92.17              92.22
92.99              92.99
95.01              95.01
95.02              95.02
130.01             130.01
130.99             130.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
—          5-3-1976    TSO Table I
—          7-12-1976   TSO Table I
—          9-13-1976   TSO Table I
—          9-10-1979   TSO Table I
2023-2024-04 4-8-2024    36.01
                        
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
6            10-17-1946  130.01
—          7-7-1949    TSO Table II
22           12-2-1954   TSO Table I
24           12-2-1954   50.01
29           4-5-1956    TSO Table III
34           12-3-1957   TSO Table I
5-1958       4-1-1958    TSO Table I
1-1959       1-30-1959   TSO Table II
1-1961       - -1961     91.095
2-1961       8-7-1961    TSO Table I
1-1963       4-1-1963    TSO Table I
—          1-7-1980    95.01;
                         95.02
—          7-7-1980    TSO Table II
—          3-2-1981    38.01—
                         38.04
—          5-4-1981    TSO Table IV
—          1-21-1985   TSO Table II
—          1-6-1986    39.15-
                         39.18
1-1987       3-6-1987    TSO Table V
                         51.001—
                         51.004;
                         51.006;
                         51.020—
                         51.024;
                         51.035;
                         51.036;
                         51.050—
                         51.053;
4-89         4-10-1989   51.065—
                         51.072;
                         51.085—
                         51.098;
                         51.110;
                         51.111;
                         51.125—
                         51.127;
                         51.140—
                         51.146;
                         51.999
                         51.001—
                         51.004;
                         51.006;
                         51.020—
                         51.024;
                         51.035;
                         51.036;
                         51.050—
                         51.053;
—          5-6-1991    51.065—
                         51.072;
                         51.085—
                         51.098;
                         51.110;
                         51.111;
                         51.125—
                         51.127;
                         51.140—
                         51.146;
                         51.999
                         52.15—
                         52.21;
                         52.99;
                         151.01—
                         151.10;
—          6-1-1992    151.25;
                         151.40—
                         151.44;
                         151.55;
                         151.56;
                         151.99
                         92.01—
                         92.05;
—          6-29-1992   92.20 
                         92.22;
                         92.99
—          3-1-1993    TSO Table II
—          4-5-1993    TSO Table III
—          8-31-1994   51.005
1994         11-7-1994   39.30—
                         39.37
                         37.01—
                         37.05;
                         37.20—
1994         12-5-1994   37.27;
                         37.40—
                         37.45;
                         37.99
                         91.070—
—          9-11-1995   91.083;
                         91.999
—          12-4-1995   TSO Table II
96-2         9-9-1996    35.25
1996         11-4-1996   35.02—
                         35.04
1997-1       5-5-1997    91.075
1999-08      10-4-1999   40.15;
                         40.16
2001-05      7-19-2001   TSO Table III
2001-11      12-3-2001   91.001
2001-14      1-7-2002    TSO Table V
2002-02      5-6-2002    TSO Table V
2002-04      7-8-2002    Ch. 74, Sch. I
2003-08      6-2-2003    97.01;
                         97.99
2003-14      10-6-2003   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2003-17      1-5-2004    TSO Table I
2004-01      4-5-2004    110.11
2004-09      11-5-2004   53.03
2005-14      9-12-2005   Ch. 74, Sch. I
2005-18      1-9-2006    TSO Table I
2007-05      10-1-2007   40.01
                         114.01—
2007-07      12-3-2007   114.14;
                         114.99
2008-02      4-15-2008   110.01
                         116.01—
2008-03      4-15-2008   116.03;
                         116.99
2008-10      11-13-2008  40.02
2008-11      12-1-2008   111.09
2009-04      8-3-2009    TSO Table VI
                         130.15—
2012-04      4-2-2012    130.19;
                         130.99
2012-05      4-2-2012    150.01—
                         150.04
2013-05      8-5-2013    TSO Table III
2024-01      6-11-2014   52.01
2015-01      5-4-2015    32.21
2015-05      11-2-2015   93.02;
                         93.99
15-13        1-5-2016    73.05
                         115.001—
                         115.009;
                         115.025—
                         115.030;
                         115.045;
                         115.046;
                         115.060—
                         115.072;
2016/17-02   8-5-2016    115.085—
                         115.099;
                         115.110;
                         115.125—
                         115.127;
                         115.140—
                         115.143;
                         115.155—
                         115.158;
                         115.999
2016-17-10   2-6-2017    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2016-17-12   3-6-2017    TSO Table III
2016-17-13   5-1-2017    115.026
17-18-02     9-8-2017    115.010
2017-18-03   10-9-2017   TSO Table I
2017-18-04   10-9-2017   TSO Table I
2017-18-08   2-5-2018    TSO Table I
2017-18-09   5-7-2018    TSO Table I
2017-18-10   5-7-2018    40.03
                         73.05;
                         73.06;
                         73.20—
2018-19-02   8-30-2018   73.22;
                         73.35—
                         73.38;
                         73.50—
                         73.52
2018-19-08   1-7-2019    115.045
2018-19-09   1-15-2019   31.41
2018-19-12   6-3-2019    53.02
2018-19-13   6-3-2019    115.029
2018-19-11   6-7-2019    53.01
2020-21-04   11-2-2020   115.008
2021-22-05   1-3-2022    33.35
                         96.01—
2023-24-05   6-3-2024    96.04;
                         96.99
2023-24-06   6-6-2024    40.17
2024-25-02   8-5-2024    53.15
2024-25-03   8-5-2024    53.16
                         52.35—
2024-25-04   9-9-2024    52.37;
                         52.99
2024-25-07   9-9-2024    110.10
2024-2025-06 10-3-2024   39.01
2024-25-10   3-3-2025    115.009
2024-25-12   6-6-2025    73.06
2025-26-04   2-2-2026    40.30
                         115.006;
2025-26-08   3-2-2026    115.026;
                         115.999
                        
 
