INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2026 S-35 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 2025-O-16, passed 11-3-25; and
State legislation current through KRS, 2025 Acts
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF CITY OF INDEPENDENCE KENTUCKY
 
COUNCILMEMBERS
Tom Brinker
Matt Fehler
Carol Franzen
Greg Steffen
Chris Vogelpohl
Greg Waite
 
 
OFFICIALS
MAYOR              Christopher J. Reinersman
CITY ADMINISTRATOR Chris Moriconi
CITY CLERK         Gina Rawe
CITY ATTORNEY      Jack Gatlin
BUILDING INSPECTOR Mike Carpenter
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2000-0-09
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 1999 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Independence,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
adoption of the 1998 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS,   it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1999 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Independence, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
/s/   Thomas M. Kriege
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/   Patricia H. Taney
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
Date of First Reading:      June 5, 2000
Date of Second Reading:   July 3, 2000
Date of Publication:      July 8, 2000
ORDINANCE NO. 2003-O-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2001 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Independence,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
adoption of the 1999 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2001 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Independence, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
                     /s/ Christian J. Moriconi
                     Christian J. Moricom, Mayor
                     City of Independence, KY
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia H. Taney
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
First Reading:  February 3, 2003
Second Reading:  February 24, 2003  
Date of Publication:  March 7, 2003
ORDINANCE NO. 2005-O-11
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2005 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Independence, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2005 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Independence, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
                     /s/ Christian J. Moriconi
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia H. Taney
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
First Reading:  April 18, 2005
Second Reading:  May 2, 2005  
      Ayes  6
      Nayes  0
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-O-14
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2007 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Independence, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2007 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Independence, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
                     /s/ Christian J. Moriconi
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia H. Taney
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
First Reading: July 23, 2007  
Second Reading: September 10, 2007
      Ayes 6  
      Nayes 0  
Date of Publication: September 20, 2007
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-O-08
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2009 S-9 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Independence, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2009 S-9 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Independence, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
                     /s/ Christian J. Moriconi
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia H. Taney
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
First Reading: May 4, 2009  
Second Reading: June 1, 2009
      Ayes 4  
      Nayes 0  
Date of Publication: June 24, 2009
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-O-11
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2011 S-10 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Independence, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2011 S-10 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Independence, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
                     /s/ Christian J. Moriconi        
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia H. Taney
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
First Reading: May 2, 2011
Second Reading: June 6, 2011
      Ayes 6  
      Nayes 0  
Date of Publication:  2011
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-O-09
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2013 S-11 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Independence, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2013 S-11 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Independence, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
                     /s/ Donna G. Yeager        
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia H. Taney
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
First Reading: August 19, 2013
Second Reading: September 9, 2013
      Ayes 6  
      Nayes 0  
Date of Publication: September 23, 2013
ORDINANCE NO. 2015-O-14
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2015 S-12 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Independence, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 2015 S-12 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Independence, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
                     /s/ Christopher J. Reinersman
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia H. Taney
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
First Reading: May 4, 2015
Second Reading: June 1, 2015
      Ayes 6  
      Nayes 0  
Date of Publication: June 17, 2015
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-O-15
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed since the passing of Ordinance No. 2018-O-07, Supplements S-19
through S-25 to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Independence, which
supplements contain all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Independence, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION I
   That the 2021 S-25 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Independence, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after its
date of passage.
                     /s/ Christopher J. Reinersman
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Gina Gabbard
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
First Reading:  August 2, 2021
Second Reading:  September 13, 2021
      Ayes 5  
      Nayes 0  
Date of Publication: 9/27/2021
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
   
10.19   Maintenance and upkeep of ordinances of city required
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Independence Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ACTION.” Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.0l0(1))
   “AND.” May be read “OR,” and “OR” may be read “AND,” if the sense requires
it.
   “ANIMAL.” Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   “AVIS.” The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   “CITY,” “MUNICIPAL CORPORATION,” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this code
shall denote the City of Independence irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   “COUNCIL.” The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   “COUNTY.” Kenton County, Kentucky.
   “CRUELTY.” As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   “DIRECTORS.” When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   “DOMESTIC ANIMAL.” Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Mayor. (KRS 83A. 010(6))
   “EXECUTIVE ORDER.” An order issued by the mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   “FEDERAL.” Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   “FOREIGN.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   “KEEPER” or “PROPRIETOR.” Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   “KRS.” Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   “LIVESTOCK.” Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas,
buffaloes, or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine,
or camelid species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   “MISDEMEANOR.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   “MONTH.” A calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   “MUNICIPALITY.” The City of Independence, Kentucky.
   “MUNICIPAL ORDER.” An official act of the city council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(9))
   “OATH.” An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words “SWEAR” and “SWORN” shall
be equivalent to the words “AFFIRM” and “AFFIRMED.” (KRS 446.020(28))
   “OFFICER.” Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (a)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
      (b)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
Government;
      (c)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (d)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (e)   Has some permanency;
      (f)   Requires an official oath;
      (g)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (h)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority. (KRS
83A.010(10))
   “ORDINANCE.” An official act of a city legislative body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or
is an appropriation of money. (KRS 83A.010(11))
   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan or urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   “PERSON.” May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real.
   “PREMISES.” As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   “PUBLIC AUTHORITY.” Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   “REAL PROPERTY.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   “RESOLUTION.”   An expression of the opinion, will or policy of the City
Council on some matter of ministerial business which has come before the
Council. A resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing with matters of a
special or temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a large extent a
municipal order, involves a distinctly legislative act.
   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.020(39))
   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   “STATE.” The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STREET.” Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   “SUBCHAPTER.” A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   “TENANT” OR “OCCUPANT.” As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   “VACANCY IN OFFICE.” Such as exists wherein there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   “VIOLATE.” Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   “VIOLATION.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c). (KRS 83A.065)
   “YEAR.” Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised by
the Mayor.
(Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.19 MAINTENANCE AND UPKEEP OF ORDINANCES OF CITY REQUIRED.
   The city shall maintain and upkeep this code of ordinances and its
ordinances pursuant to law.
(Res. passed 9-10-85)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty of fine or imprisonment is otherwise provided, the
offender shall be guilty of a violation and fined not more than $250 for each
offense or violation.
   Statutory reference:
      Enforcement of city ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
34A
.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
36.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.0l FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the "Mayor-
Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130 (l))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130 (2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six (6) nor more
than twelve (12) members as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the
number of legislative body members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the county clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of legislative
body members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election
of the number of legislative body members specified in the amending ordinance.
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath of office
   
31.02   Bonding requirements
   
31.03   Compensation
   
31.04   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Administrator
   
31.37   City Clerk
   
31.38   Police Chief
   
31.39   Zoning Administrator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of , according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that,
since the adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this
United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State,
nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with
deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided
or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God," as established by
Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. The person administering an oath of office to
an elected officer, shall certify, in writing, that the oath of office was
administered, and the date of its administration. Said certification shall be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 31.02 BONDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments and special districts who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his
or her duties and as security for all money coming into that person's hands or
under that person's control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum
amount of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given
time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of
the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS Chapter 65)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with Section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) per annum and Mayors in cities
other than the first class and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no
greater than seven thousand two hundred dollars ($7,200) per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance that creates the office and may change it by
ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Am. Ord. 2000-0-02, passed 1-03-00; Am. Ord. 2003-O-14, passed 8-4-03)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070(3) and 83A.075
§ 31.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   As authorized by KRS 83A.045(2)(b)(1), the city shall forgo the
conducting of a nonpartisan primary for the nomination of candidates to a city
office, regardless of the number of candidates running for each office. All
candidates are required to file the appropriate nomination papers with the
county clerk no less than ninety-one (91) days before the day affixed by KRS
Chapter 118 for holding a regular election.
      (2)   The city elects and adopts the provisions of KRS 83A.045(2)(b) to
govern the nonpartisan election of candidates to city office.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five (5) years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the officers of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
two hundred and forty (240) days preceding the regular election for that
office, except in the event of a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Ord. 3-2-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 1994-0-16, passed 7-12-94; Am. Ord.
2000-0-20, passed 12-4-00; Am. Ord. 2015-O-06, passed 5-4-15)
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS.83A.080(3), (4)
   Election to fill unexpired term of city office, see 83A.165
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office.   The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. His or her term of office begins
on the first day of January following his or her election and shall be for four
(4) years and until his or her successor qualifies.
   (B)   Qualifications.   The Mayor shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his or her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy.   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
         (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member
of the City Council shall not vote for himself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail address
and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative
body occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special
legislative meeting occurring on or after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
         (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by
law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
         (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in
the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (5))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
         (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
shall be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council
Plan, city ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall
supervise all departments of city government and the conduct of all city
officers and employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each
department to make reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or
she deems desirable.
         (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
         (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
         (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall
promulgate procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city
government and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or
upon revision or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the
person responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
         (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities
to subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
         (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order. (KRS 83A.130(8))
         (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to
appoint and remove all city employees, including police officers,
except as tenure and terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance,
or contract and except for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
         (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within thirty (30) days of such action. If for any reason the disability of the
Mayor to attend to his or her duties persists for sixty (60) consecutive days,
the office of Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council
and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
(Ord. 2-11-79, passed 11-8-79)
   (E)   Compensation.   Effective January 1, 2023, the salary of the Mayor
shall be twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per year.
(Ord. 1-7-88, passed 8-9-88; Am. Ord. 1993-0-2, passed 2-9-93; Am. Ord. 2000-0-
02, passed 1-3-00; Am. Ord. 2005-O-24, passed 4-17-06; Am. Ord. 2021-O-22,
passed 12-6-21)
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   Non-elected officers of the city may be removed from office by the
Mayor only for some reasonable cause, and only after a due process hearing in
regards thereto, with any necessary factual determinations made by an unbiased
and impartial attorney, appointed by the City Council from the membership of
the Kentucky Bar Association.
(Ord. 1996-0-16, passed 9-10-96)
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Administrator.
      (2)   City Clerk.
      (3)   Police Chief
      (4)   Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 1995-0-16, passed 9-12-95; Am. Ord 2000-0-13, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord.
2000-0-14, passed 8-7-00)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   For provisions concerning the City Administrator, see §
36.01.
(Ord. 2000-0-13, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2000-0-14, passed 8-7-00)
§ 31.37 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Establishment. The city hereby establishes the office of the City
Clerk.
   (B)   Combination with other office. The office of City Clerk may, by
ordinance, be combined with any other nonelected city office by inclusion of
the title and duties of such office.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882, and
Chapter 34 of this code;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   Act as tax collector pursuant to §
37.04(A).
      (5)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government, a list containing current city information including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (6)   Performance of any other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation. Compensation shall be in the amount as established by
the City Council from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk
unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if
required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
(Ord. 2000-0-13, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2000-0-14, passed 8-7-00)
§ 31.38 POLICE CHIEF.
   For provisions concerning the Police Chief, see §§
35.25 –
35.29 and the city classification plan.
(Ord. 2000-0-13, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2000-0-14, passed 8-7-00)
§ 31.39 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   For provisions concerning the Zoning Administrator, see
Ch. 155 and the city classification plan.
(Ord. 2000-0-13, passed 8-7-00; Am. Ord. 2000-0-14, passed 8-7-00)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Compensation
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Authority
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Order of business
   
32.23   Rules of conduct
   
32.24   Addressing the City Council; Code of Conduct
   
32.25   Procedures; administration
   
32.26   Prohibiting disclosure of executive session information
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. Terms of office begin on the
first day of January following the election and shall be for two (2) years,
except as provided by §
31.20.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age,
shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout
his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(3), (4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within thirty (30)
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with
the remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular meeting of the City Council.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(5), (6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS Chapter 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of the city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any department,
office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130 (13))
§ 32.04 COMPENSATION.
   The salary of councilmembers for the city shall be six thousand dollars
($6,000.00) per year.
(Ord. 1-7-88, passed 8-9-88; Am. Ord. 1993-0-2, passed 2-9-93; Am. Ord. 2000-0-
02, passed 1-3-00; Am. Ord. 2005-O-24, passed 4-17-06)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 AUTHORITY.
   Governance. The City of Independence through its legislative body is free to
adopt general parliamentary law to govern its proceedings and is also free to
supplement those general rules and procedures with any special rules or
procedures composed by the legislative body to fit its particular needs. Such
rules or procedures must conform to any state law requirements regarding the
conduct of meetings. Since the Kentucky Revised Statutes establish only very
basic requirements concerning how city legislative body meetings are actually
managed once properly convened, Kentucky cities have wide latitude to establish
their own rules of order and procedures.
(Ord. 2005-O-04, passed 4-4-05)
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   Consistent with KRS 83A.130(11), 83A.140(7) and 83A.150(4) regular
meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first Monday of each month.
The meetings are held in the City Council chambers and begin at 7:00 p.m. In
the event that a meeting is scheduled on an official holiday or an observed
official holiday, the meeting will be moved to the following Monday. Any
deviation from the times and places specified in this document shall make the
meeting a special meeting.
      (2)   When the regularly scheduled City Council meeting for the month of
November occurs in the same week in which there is an election conducted by the
Secretary of State of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the regularly scheduled
Council meeting for November shall take place on the Monday following the
Tuesday election.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called at any time by the
Mayor or upon written request of a majority of the City Council. The City Clerk
shall post notice thereof as provided by the Kentucky Open Meetings Act, KRS
61.805 to 61.850. No subjects may be discussed other than those specified in
the notice/agenda of the meeting.
   (C)   Emergency meetings (KRS 61.823(5)). In case of emergency or urgent
public necessity which shall be expressed in the notice of the meeting, an
emergency meeting may be called by the Mayor or upon written request by a
majority of the City Council, and it shall be sufficient if the notice is
posted two (2) hours before the meeting is convened. Diligent effort to notify
all Council members shall be made prior to the emergency meeting.
   (D)   Alternate locations. The City Council may occasionally elect to meet
at other locations within the city and, upon such election, shall give public
notice of the change of location in accordance with provisions of state law. If
by reason of fire, flood or other emergency, it is unsafe to meet in the City
Council chambers, meetings may be held for the duration of the emergency at
such other place as may be designated by the Mayor or, in the Mayor’s absence,
by the Council.
   (E)   Reserved.
   (F)   Executive sessions.
      (1)   The City Council may meet in executive session during any meeting
as scheduled by the Mayor, or upon request of the city attorney or any member
of the City Council to consider or hear any matter that is authorized by KRS
61.810, to be heard or considered in executive session provided it is so stated
on the agenda.
      (2)   KRS 61.815 establishes requirements, which must be met as a
condition for conducting certain closed sessions. The requirements apply only
when the executive session involves:
         (a)   Discussions or hearings concerning the appointment, discipline
or dismissal of an individual employee or member of the agency;
         (b)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property
by a public agency when publicity would be likely to affect the value of the
property;
         (c)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation involving a public
agency;
         (d)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees;
         (e)   Discussions or hearings that might lead to the appointment,
dismissal, or disciplining of an individual employee, member, or student.
However, general personnel matters may not be discussed in private;
         (f)   State and local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
         (g)   Deliberations of judicial or quasi-judicial bodies involving
individual adjudications or appointments. This does not include meetings of
planning commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment; and
         (h)   Meetings which federal or state law or the Constitution require
to be conducted privately.
      (3)   When a public agency desires to go into closed session for these
reasons, it must comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   Notice must be given in an open meeting of the general nature of
the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for conducting the
closed session, and the specific provision of KRS 61.810 authorizing the closed
session.
         (b)   A motion must be made to go into closed session and the motion
must be approved by a majority vote conducted in open session.
         (c)   No final action may be taken in the executive session. The
agency must reconvene in an open meeting and take its final action in that
setting. It is permissible, however, to take a "straw vote" in the executive
session to determine the position of the members.
         (d)   No subjects may be discussed during a closed session other than
those publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
      (4)   When it is necessary for a public agency to satisfy the above
requirements, the minutes of the open meeting should clearly reflect the
requirements were met.
   (G)   Notice of meetings. Notice of meetings and the agenda for all City
Council meetings shall be posted by the City Clerk on the city's official
bulletin board pursuant to the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act,
KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
   (H)   Quorum. Four (4) members of the six (6) member City Council shall
constitute a quorum to do business and the affirmative vote of a majority of
those present shall be necessary to adopt any ordinance, order or resolution,
except as required by state law.
   (I)   Attendance (Non-elected officials). The Chief of Police, City Attorney
and the City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the City Council unless
excused. City officials may make recommendations to the City Council if
recognized by the Mayor, but shall have no vote. The City Attorney shall upon
request, give an opinion, either written or oral, on questions of law. The City
Attorney shall act as the City Council's parliamentarian. The City Clerk shall
keep accurate records of all actions taken by City Council.
   (J)   Duties of the Mayor. The Mayor is the chief executive and
administrative officer of the city. The Mayor's principal function is to
oversee the management of the city's daily affairs. The basic duties and
authorities of the Mayor are set forth in KRS 83A.130 as follows:
      (1)   Enforce city ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes.
      (2)   Supervise the day-to-day operations of city government and the
conduct of all city officers and employees under the Mayor's jurisdiction.
      (3)   Require each department to make reports as required by ordinance or
as the Mayor deems necessary.
      (4)   Serve as liaison with related units of local government regarding
interlocal contracting and joint services.
      (5)   Report to the Council and the public on the condition and needs of
the city as deemed desirable, or as required by ordinance, but at least
annually.
      (6)   Promulgate procedures, subject to Council disapproval, to ensure
the orderly functioning of government and compliance with statutes and
ordinances.
      (7)   Preside at Council meetings (see division (I) below).
      (8)   Approve or veto ordinances (see division (J) below).
      (9)   Make and sign all bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations
of the city.
      (10)   Appoint all city employees, including police officers, except for
City Council staff.
      (11)   Appoint all nonelected officers, subject to Council approval.
      (12)   Discipline and dismiss all city employees and nonelected officers
at-will, unless tenure or terms of employment are protected by statute,
ordinance or contract, and except for Council employees.
      (13)   Prepare, present, and administer the annual budget.
      (14)   Call special meetings of Council.
      (15)   Provide for the orderly continuation of city government by
delegating authority when necessary or desirable (See division (M) below).
   (K)   Presiding officer responsibilities. The Mayor shall preside at all
meetings of the Council. In addition, the Mayor shall:
      (1)   Open the session at the time at which the Council is to meet, by
taking the chair and calling the members to order;
      (2)   Announce the business before the Council in the order in which it
is to be acted upon;
      (3)   Recognize members entitled to the floor;
      (4)   State and to put to vote all questions which are regularly moved,
or necessarily arise in the course of the proceedings;
      (5)   Announce the result of the vote;
      (6)   Protect the Council from annoyance from evidently frivolous or
dilatory motions by refusing to recognize them;
      (7)   Assist in the expediting of business in every way compatible with
the rights of the members, as by allowing brief remarks when undebateable
motions (see §
32.23(L)) are pending, if he or she thinks it advisable;
      (8)   Restrain the members when engaged in debate, within the rules of
order;
      (9)   Enforce on all occasions the observance of order and decorum among
the members, deciding all questions of order (subject to an appeal to the
Council);
      (10)   Inform the Council, when necessary, or when referred to for the
purpose, on a point of order or practice pertinent to pending business;
      (11)   Authenticate, by his or her signature, when necessary, all the
acts, orders, and proceedings of the Council declaring its will and in all
things obeying its commands.
      (12)   Retain the right to vote in cases of a tie except on zoning issues
where a tie defaults to the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
      (13)   Retain the right to participate in the discussion of all matters
coming before the City Council.
   (L)   Approval and/or veto powers. The Mayor may veto any ordinance of the
Council. Ordinances approved by the Mayor shall be verified by his or her
signature and returned to the Council or City Clerk within ten (10) days of
receiving it. The Mayor may veto the ordinance by returning it to the Council
or City Clerk unsigned with a statement of the reasons for the veto within ten
(10) days of receiving it. If the Mayor does not act within ten (10) days, the
ordinance is automatically approved. The Council ay override a veto if one (1)
more than a simple majority of the entire membership (five (5) of six (6))
votes to override. The Mayor has no authority to veto other acts of the
Council, such as municipal orders, resolutions and the like.
   (M)   Delegation of executive authority. The Mayor must delegate his or her
executive and administrative powers, duties and responsibilities when
necessary. When the Mayor is unable to perform his or her executive or
administrative duties because of temporary absence or disability, the
responsibility for performing those functions should be delegated to a
nonelected officer such as the City Clerk, Police Chief and the like, or to an
employee (KRS 83A.130(7)). However, KRS 83A.130(10) states that the
responsibility of approving ordinances, promulgating administrative procedures
may only be delegated to an elected official. In addition, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding over Council meetings. The Mayor may
rescind any executive or administrative action that is taken in the Mayor's
absence within thirty (30) days of the date the action was taken, with the
approval of Council.
   (N)   Replacement of presiding officer. When the Mayor is absent from any
meeting of the Council, the Council member who received the most votes in the
last election shall serve as Mayor Pro Tem and preside at meetings. This member
may decline the chair and request the Council to select another Councilperson
to preside.
   (O)   Mayor to act as Council ceremonial representative. The Mayor has been
delegated the responsibility to act as the City Council's ceremonial
representative at public events and functions.
   (P)   Duties of the Council. KRS 83A.130(1) provides that "all legislative
authority shall be vested in and exercised by the elected council of the city."
The Council may not perform any executive or administrative function, unless
specifically authorized by statute (KRS 83A.130(11)). The following powers and
authorities of the Council are set forth in KRS Chapter 83A:
      (1)   Establish, by ordinance, all appointed offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices.
      (2)   Enact all codes, rules and regulations for the general public's
health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   Provide sufficient revenues to operate city government through the
adoption of an annual budget ordinance and by levying all taxes and
establishing all fees and charges for city services.
      (4)   Establish, by ordinance, the compensation to be paid to all elected
and appointed officers and employees of the city.
      (5)   May investigate all activities of city government and may require
any city officer or employee to prepare and submit sworn statements regarding
the performance of his or her official duties.
      (6)   May disapprove regulations promulgated by the Mayor.
      (7)   May override mayoral vetoes by the affirmative vote of one (1) more
than a majority of the membership (five (5) of six (6)).
      (8)   May appoint a new Mayor or Council member, if a vacancy occurs in
the office (KRS 83A.040).
      (9)   May remove elected officers for misconduct, inability or willful
neglect of office (KRS 83A.040(9)).
      (10)   May change the manner of electing city officers by adopting the
nonpartisan primary election process (KRS 83A.050(2)).
      (11)   May divide the city into wards for the purpose of electing Council
members (KRS 83A.100).
      (12)   Approves the appointment of nonelected city officers.
   (Q)   Legislative responsibilities of Council members during meetings. To be
an effective member of the Council, each member should:
      (1)   Be knowledgeable about the general rules of parliamentary law and
the special rules of order adopted by the Council and abide by them.
      (2)   Address all remarks through the Mayor (presiding officer) and avoid
any personal references or attacks on other members, officers, city employees
or guests.
      (3)   Refrain from disturbing the meeting in any way, including using
parliamentary knowledge to hinder or obstruct the business of the meeting
      (4)   Be knowledgeable about the issues under consideration so that the
member may introduce appropriate motions, second motions, debate the issues and
ask pertinent questions, and vote on all matters except those with respect to
which the member has a conflict of interest.
   (R)   Removal. The removal of an elected city official from office is
authorized by KRS 83A.040(9), which allows the Council to remove any elected
city officer from office for misconduct, incapacity or willful neglect in the
performance of the duties of the office. In addition, KRS 61.252 states that a
violation of the conflict of interest prohibitions set forth in KRS 61.525
constitutes grounds for removal.
   (S)   Attendance by the public. Pursuant to KRS 61.820 all meetings of the
City Council shall be open and public in accordance with the terms of
provisions of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act except executive sessions or
closed meetings allowed by state law. Citizens and other visitors attending
City Council meetings shall observe the same rules of propriety, decorum and
good conduct applicable to members of the City Council. KRS 61.840 states that
the city may not impose any conditions on the attendance at public meetings
other than those required for the maintenance or order.
   (T)   Minutes. Minutes of a meeting, open or closed, are not required to
show any more than the formal action taken and the votes cast by the members.
The minutes are not required to summarize the discussion or record what any
member said.
   (U)   Roberts Rules of Order. These rules and procedures are adopted by the
Council of the City of Independence, under the Council's authority provided by
statute and by law to determine its own rules, order of business, and to
regulate the conduct of its meetings, to be used as a supplementary guideline
and general parliamentary procedure will be observed in the conduct of the
Council's meetings.
(Ord. 2005-O-01, passed 2-7-05; Am. Ord. 2005-O-04, passed 4-4-05; Am. Ord.
2005-O-06, passed 4- 18-05; Am. Ord. 2006-O-22, passed 11-27-06; Am. Ord. 2015-
O-02, passed 1-5-15; Am. Ord. 2021-O- 14, passed 8-2-21)
§ 32.22 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   General order. City Council meetings will be generally conducted in
the following order, unless otherwise specified. An executive session may be
held at any time during a meeting consistent with applicable state law.
         Role call and announcement of a quorum
         Pledge of allegiance
         Invocation
         Approval of minutes
         Public recognition
         Privileges of the floor
         Mayor report
         City official and/or Committee reports
         Consent agenda
         Regular agenda
            Old and new business
            Other business
         Announcements
         Executive session (as needed)
         Adjournment
   (B)   Public recognition. All special presentations and announcements will
be calendared and coordinated through the City Clerk. A period of time, not to
exceed fifteen (15) minutes, will be set aside for public recognition at each
City Council meeting.
   (C)   Consent agenda. Consent agenda items are considered to be routine and
noncontroversial, with documentation provided to the Council that is adequate
and sufficient for approval without inquiry or discussion. The consent agenda
is intended to minimize the time required for the handling of any
noncontroversial matters and permit additional time to be spent on more
significant matters. Any item on the consent agenda will be moved to the
regular agenda upon request from any Council member. Agenda items removed from
the consent agenda by the request of a Council member will be considered during
the regular agenda.
(Ord. 2005-O-04, passed 4-4-05)
§ 32.23 RULES OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   General procedure. These rules, consistent with the Kentucky Revised
Statutes and any applicable city ordinances, statutes or other legal
requirements, shall govern the proceedings of the City Council.
   (B)   Authority of the Mayor. Subject to appeal to the full City Council,
the Mayor shall have the authority to prevent the misuse of motions, the abuse
of any privilege, or the obstruction of the business of the City Council by
ruling any such matter out of order. In so ruling, the Mayor shall be courteous
and fair and should presume that the moving party is acting in good faith. Any
member of the City Council may move to require enforcement of the rules, and
the affirmative vote of a majority of the City Council shall require the Mayor
to act.
   (C)   Exscusal from attendance. City Council members are expected to attend
meetings and stay in attendance during each meeting. No member shall be excused
from attendance at a City Council meeting except for good and valid reasons.
   (D)   Council deliberation and order of speakers. The Mayor has been
delegated the responsibility to control the debate and the order of speakers.
Speakers will generally be called upon in the order of the request to speak.
   (E)   Limit deliberations to item at hand. Council members will limit their
comments to the subject matter, time or motion being currently considered by
the City Council.
   (F)   Length of Council comments. Council members will govern themselves as
to the length of their prepared statements. Council members shall have five (5)
minutes to make a prepared statement on an issue before the body. As a
courtesy, the Mayor will inform a Council member when they have reached or
exceeded five (5) minutes. This procedure is not meant to limit debate or to
cut comments short, but rather to assist Council members in their efforts to
communicate concisely.
   (G)   Obtaining the floor. Any member of the City Council wishing to speak
must first obtain the floor by being recognized by the Mayor. The Mayor must
recognize any Council member who seeks the floor when appropriately entitled to
do so.
   (H)   Ordinances. KRS 83A.010(11) defines an ordinance as "an official
action of a city legislative body, which is a regulation of a general and
permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an appropriation of
money." Once an ordinance has been legally enacted, it has, by the express
terms of KRS 83A.010(11), the force of law within the boundaries of the city. A
violation of an ordinance by a person subject to its terms may result in the
imposition of criminal or civil penalties, or both, that are enforceable
through the judicial system. Enactment of an ordinance is specifically set
forth in KRS 83A.060. Unless an emergency is declared to exist (KRS 83A.060
(7)), ordinances must receive both a first and second reading before Council
can take final action. The readings must occur on separate days. Emergency
ordinances must receive a two/thirds (2/3) majority vote.
   (I)   Municipal orders. KRS 83A.010(9) defines municipal order as "an
official act of the legislative body of a municipality which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the municipality and any governmental agency over
which the municipality has jurisdiction." In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal
order may be used for matters relating to the internal operation and function
of the municipality and to appoint or remove, or approve the appointment or
removal of, members of boards, commissions and other agencies over which the
city has control (KRS 83A.060(13)).
   (J)   Executive orders. KRS 83A.010(7) defines an executive order to mean
"an order issued by the executive authority of a municipality which is binding
upon the officers and employees of the municipality and any governmental agency
over which the municipality has jurisdiction." The Mayor issues executive
orders. Executive orders are open to repeal by a majority vote of the Council.
   (K)   Resolutions. A resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing with
matters of a special or temporary character. Resolutions have no binding
effect. Resolutions are typically used as a formal expression of the Council's
opinion on a matter. It is used to honor individuals or groups; to authorize a
study of an issue that will become the basis for later legislative action; to
approve a bid or contract.
   (L)   Motions. Motions regarding ordinances, orders, resolutions and the
like may only be made by a member of the Council. Any member of the Council,
other than the person offering the motion, may second a motion.
   (M)   Procedures for motions. The following is the general procedure for
making motions:
      (1)   Before a motion can be considered or debated it must be seconded.
      (2)   A Council member who wishes to make a motion should do so through a
verbal request to the Mayor followed by: "I move that ....".
      (3)   A Council member who wishes to second a motion may do so by calling
out "I second the motion" or "Second".
      (4)   Once the motion has been properly made and seconded, the Mayor
shall open the matter for discussion offering the first opportunity to the
moving party and, thereafter, to any Council member properly recognized by the
Mayor. Some motions are undebateable and will be immediately put to a vote by
the Mayor.
      (5)   Once the matter has been fully discussed and the Mayor calls for a
vote, no further discussion will be allowed.
   (N)   Approved motions.
      (1)   Motion to amend. When a motion is on the floor and an amendment is
offered, the amendment should be acted upon prior to acting on the main motion.
No motion of a subject different from that under consideration shall be
admitted as an amendment. A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but
one to amend an amendment to an amendment shall not be in order. Action shall
be taken on the amended amendment prior to any other action to further amend
the original motion.
      (2)   Motion to continue. A motion to continue will leave the motion in
its present condition for consideration on a date and time certain.
      (3)   Motion to table. A motion to table will delay consideration of the
item being discussed by the City Council. This motion requires a majority plus
one vote of Council.
      (4)   Motion to take from the table. A motion to take from the table
allows a previously tabled motion to be discussed again when no other motion is
actually pending, and at a time when new business is in order. This motion can
be used during the meeting when the motion was tabled, or during the next
meeting of the Council.
      (5)   Motion to call the previous question. A motion to call the previous
question is to bring the Council at once to a vote on the immediately pending
motion. This motion closes debate immediately. This motion requires a majority
plus one vote of the Council.
      (6)   Motion to postpone indefinitely. A motion to postpone indefinitely
will kill or reject the item under consideration. This motion takes a majority
plus one (1) of Council.
      (7)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer forwards the item under
consideration to the named group, committee, or board for further study.
      (8)   Motion to appeal. Any member may appeal to the Council any ruling
of the Mayor. If an appeal is moved and seconded, the member making the appeal
may briefly state his reason for the appeal and then the Mayor may briefly
explain his ruling. There shall be no debate on an appeal and no other members
shall speak. The presiding officer shall then state, "Shall the decision of the
Chair be upheld?" If an affirmative majority vote is received, the ruling of
the Chair shall stand.
      (9)   Motion to suspend the rules. When the Council wishes to do
something that cannot be done without violating its own rules, and yet it is
not in conflict with KRS, city ordinance or the fundamental principles of
parliamentary law, it "suspends the rules that interfere with" the proposed
action. The object of the suspension must be specified, and nothing else can be
done under the suspension. The rules that can be suspended are those relating
to priority of business, or to business procedure. This motion takes a majority
plus one (1) of the Council.
Motions Required Require Recognition Require Second Debateable Amendable Vote
Motions Required Require     Require Second Debateable Amendable Vote
                 Recognition
Adjourn          yes         yes            no         no        majority
Table            yes         yes            no         no        majority
Previous         yes         yes            no         no        majority plus
question                                                         one
Extend/limit     yes         yes            no         no        majority
debate
Continue         yes         yes            yes        yes       majority
Amend            yes         yes            yes        yes       majority
Refer            yes         yes            yes        no        majority
Postpone         yes         yes            yes        no        majority
indefinitely
Suspend rules    yes         yes            yes        no        majority plus
                                                                 one
Appeal decision
majority of the  yes         no             no         no
Mayor
 
   (O)   Dilatory, absurd or frivolous motions. The City Council has the
inherent right to protect itself from being imposed upon by members using
parliamentary forms to prevent it from doing the very thing for which it is in
session, and which these rules and procedures were designed to assist, namely,
to transact business. Therefore, whenever the Mayor is satisfied that members
are using parliamentary forms merely to obstruct business, he or she should
either not recognize them, or else rule them out of order. While the chair
should always be courteous and fair, he should be firm in protecting the
assembly from imposition, even though it be done in strict conformity with all
parliamentary rules except this one, that no dilatory, absurd, or frivolous
motions are allowed.
   (P)   Debate. After the Mayor has stated a motion, it is before the Council
for consideration and action. All resolutions, reports, communications to the
Council, and all amendments proposed to them, and all other motions except the
undebatable motions (see table above) may be debated before final action is
taken on them, unless a majority vote plus one of the Council decides to
dispose of them without debate. In the debate each member has the right to
speak twice on the same question on the same day, but cannot make a second
speech on the same question as long as any member who has not spoken on that
question desires the floor. No one can speak longer than seven (7) minutes at a
time without permission of the Council. Debate must be limited to the merits of
the immediately pending question; that is, the last question stated by the
Mayor. Speakers must address their remarks to the Mayor, be courteous in their
language and deportment, and avoid all personalities, never alluding to the
motives or character of Council members, the Mayor, or others.
   (Q)   Voting.
      (1)   Abstention. If a quorum is present, and a majority of the votes
cast are in favor of the proposition being considered, then all abstaining
votes are counted with the majority. When a Council member abstains or excuses
himself/herself from a portion of a Council meeting because of a legal conflict
of interest, the Council member must briefly state, on the record, the nature
of the conflict.
      (2)   Tie votes.
         (a)   The Mayor breaks a tie vote, except on zoning matters where a
tie defaults to the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Votes that are null and void even if unanimous. No ordinance or
municipal order is in order that conflicts with the laws of the nation, or
state, or with ordinances of the City Council (unless the ordinance
specifically calls for the rescinding of a previous ordinance), and if such a
motion is adopted, even by a unanimous vote, it is null and void.
   (R)   Voting disqualification. No member of the Council who is disqualified
due to a conflict of interest shall vote upon the matter on which he or she is
disqualified. Any member shall openly state or have the Mayor announce the fact
and nature of such disqualification in open meeting, and shall not be subject
to further inquiry. Where no clearly disqualifying conflict of interest
appears, the matter of disqualification may, at the request of the member
affected, be decided by the other members of the Council, by motion, and such
decision shall determine such member's right and obligation to vote. A member
who is disqualified by conflict of interest in any matter shall not engage in
the debate and/or vote on such matter, but shall request and be given the
Mayor's permission to excuse himself/herself. Any member having a "remote
interest" in any matter shall divulge the same before voting.
   (S)   Dissent and protest. Any Council member shall have the right to
express dissent from or protest against any ordinance, order, resolution, or
other action of the City Council and have the reason for the dissent or protest
entered in the minutes. Such dissent or protest may be filed in writing and
presented to the City Clerk for placement in the minutes no later than the next
regular meeting following the date of the City Council's action on the matter.
   (T)   Non-observance of rules. Rules (other than those required under state
law) adopted to expedite and facilitate the transaction of the business of the
Council in an orderly fashion shall be deemed to be procedural only, and the
failure to strictly observe any such rules shall not affect the jurisdiction
of, or invalidate any action taken by, the Council.
   (U)   City Attorney to approve. All ordinances shall be approved as to form
by the City Attorney.
   (V)   First and second readings. No ordinance shall be passed until it has
been read on two (2) separate days unless the second reading has been dispensed
with by the passage of such ordinance under the emergency provisions. All
ordinances and resolutions may be read by title and summary only provided all
members have copies.
(Ord. 2005-O-04, passed 4-4-05)
§ 32.24 ADDRESSING THE CITY COUNCIL; CODE OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Privileges of the floor. This portion of the City Council meeting is
set-aside for members of the public to address the City Council on any item of
business that is not formally scheduled on the agenda or scheduled as a public
hearing. A privilege of the floor is not a right under Kentucky law.
      (1)   Citizens and guest statements are generally permitted at the
beginning of the regular City Council meeting, as specified on the agenda.
Persons wishing to address the City Council should either contact the City
Clerk in advance of the meeting or make such a request before the beginning of
the meeting. Comments shall be limited to three (3) minutes each, but may be
extended for an additional two (2) minutes with approval of a majority of the
City Council.
      (2)   When called upon, the person shall come to the podium state his/her
name and address for the record, and, if speaking for an organization or other
group, identify the group represented.
      (3)   All remarks should be addressed to the City Council as a whole, not
to individual members and made through the Mayor.
      (4)   Questions, if any, should be directed to the Mayor who will
determine whether, or in what manner, an answer will be provided.
      (5)   Citizens and other visitors attending City Council meetings shall
observe the same rules of propriety, decorum and good conduct applicable to
members of the City Council. Any person making personal, impertinent, profane
or slanderous remarks or who becomes boisterous while addressing the City
Council or while attending the City Council meeting shall be removed from the
room if the sergeant-at-arms is so directed by the Mayor, and the person shall
be barred from further audience before the City Council during that session of
the City Council. If the Mayor fails to act, any member of the City Council may
move to require enforcement of the rules, and the affirmative vote of a
majority of the City Council shall require the Mayor to act.
      (6)   Unauthorized remarks or disruptive behavior from the audience such
as, clapping, stamping of feet, whistles, yells, and similar demonstrations
shall not be permitted by the Mayor, who may direct the sergeant–at-arms to
remove offenders from the room. Aggravated cases shall be prosecuted on
appropriate complaint signed by the Mayor. In case the Mayor shall fail to act,
any City Council member of the City Council may move to require enforcement of
the rules, and the affirmative vote of a majority of the City Council shall
require the Mayor to act.
      (7)   No placards, banners, or signs will be permitted in the city
council chamber or in any other room in which the City Council is meeting.
Exhibits, displays, and visual aids used in connection with presentations to
the City Council, however, are permitted. Video presentations requested by
citizens as visual aids may not be broadcasted over cable television.
      (8)   No council deliberations. In compliance with the Kentucky Open
Meetings Act, the City Council may not deliberate or vote on any matter raised
by guests, except for the purpose of determining whether such matter should be
placed on a future City Council agenda. The Mayor, however, may request the
City Administration to provide additional information on a matter of general
interest to the full City Council, the public at large and to the citizen
making the comment.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Chief of Police, as chief law enforcement officer,
shall act as sergeant-at-arms for the City Council and shall furnish whatever
assistance is needed to enforce the rules of the City Council. Upon instruction
from the Mayor or by a majority vote of the Council, it shall be the duty of
the Chief of Police or designated law enforcement officer to remove a person
from the Council chamber. It is then under the discretion of the law
enforcement officer whether to place any person who violates the order and
decorum of the meeting under arrest, and cause him or her to be prosecuted
under the provisions of applicable law.
   (C)   Public written statements. Individuals who do not wish to or cannot
verbally address the City Council during a meeting may submit public written
statements. A person may indicate his/her comments and support or opposition
for an agenda item in writing to the Mayor. During the public testimony
regarding the item, the Mayor will indicate that the City Council has received
written comments from (name of persons) in support of the project or issue and
from (name of persons) in opposition. The minutes will reflect the City
Council's receipt of written comments in support or opposition of the project
or issue.
   (D)   Repetitious comments prohibited. A speaker shall not present the same
or substantially the same items or arguments to the Council repeatedly or be
repetitious in presenting their oral comments. Nothing in the foregoing
precludes submission of comments to the City Council in writing, for such
action or non-action as the Council, in its discretion, may deem appropriate.
In order to expedite matters and to avoid repetitious presentations, the
designation of a spokesperson is encouraged. Whenever any group of individuals
wishes to address the Council on the same subject matter, those individuals are
encouraged to designate a spokesperson to address the City Council. With the
consent of the City Council, the Mayor may extend the time allocation for a
designated spokesperson.
   (E)   Waiver of rules. Any of the foregoing rules (except those required
under state law) may be waived or suspended by a majority vote of the Council
members present when it is deemed that there is good cause to do so, based upon
the particular facts and circumstances involved.
   (F)   Non-exclusive rules. The rules set forth are not exclusive and do not
limit the inherent power and general legal authority of the City Council, or of
the Mayor, to govern the conduct of City Council meetings as may be considered
appropriate from time to time, or in particular circumstances, for purposes of
orderly and effective conduct of the affairs of the city.
(Ord. 2005-O-04, passed 4-4-05)
§ 32.25 PROCEDURES; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Biennial review of City Council procedures. The City Council will
review and revise the City Council Rules of Order and Procedure as needed, and
at a minimum, every two (2) years.
   (B)   Adherence to procedures. During City Council discussions,
deliberations and proceedings, the Mayor has been delegated the primary
responsibility to ensure that the City Council, staff and members of the public
adhere to the Council's adopted procedures.
   (C)   City Attorney as procedure advisor. The City Attorney assists the
Mayor and City Council as a resource and as an advisor for interpreting the
City Council's adopted rules and procedures.
(Ord. 2005-O-04, passed 4-4-05)
§ 32.26 PROHIBITING DISCLOSURE OF EXECUTIVE SESSION INFORMATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any elected or appointed officer of the city
to disclose any information that is divulged to them or discussed with them in
an executive session of the City Council with anyone not also a party to the
said executive session, provided that such information is covered under the
exceptions to the Open Meetings Act pursuant to KRS 61.810.
   (B)   The city, through its Mayor, or any other member of Council, or an
other person in attendance of the executive session where it is alleged that
this section was violated, may initiate charges against the alleged offender
with the city, by making a written charge of the violation. The alleged
violator shall be given a hearing before the city of Independence Code
Enforcement Ethics Board. Written notice of the charge, the date, time, and
place of the hearing shall be sent to the alleged violator not later than ten
(10) days prior to a hearing. the alleged violator may waive the time lines
herein upon written request to the Chairman of that Board. The hearing shall be
conducted with due consideration to due process rights of the alleged violator.
They shall have the right to prior notice, an impartial hearing, and legal
counsel to have witnesses called, to examination and cross examination of all
witnesses. a written decision shall be rendered within fourteen (14) days
following the hearing. The alleged violator shall have the right to appeal any
such decision to the Circuit Court.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent or hinder the alleged violator,
nor anyone else, from making an Open meeting appeal for an issue not an
exception to the Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   This section shall not apply, and it shall not be in violation, to
disclose of any such information once such information becomes public by the
regular course of business, or the confidential information had become mute, or
the matter has been brought to a conclusion and the disclosure could no longer
subject the city to any liability in the opinion of the City Attorney.
   (E)   Any person found to have violated this section shall be guilty of a
violation and be subject to a civil fine of not more than two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250.00).
(Ord. 2005-O-06, passed 4-18-05)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace but one subject and shall have a title which
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Independence."
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two (2) separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten (10) days of the enactment of the
emergency ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4), (7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten (10) days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance
by affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the
Council together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten (10) days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one (1) more than a majority
of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance which identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, provided a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance
and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by
Council. If Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the summary
shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (C)   The requirements for summary publication may be satisfied by
publication of the title, a brief narrative setting forth the main points of
the ordinance in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear
and understandable manner of the meaning of the ordinance, and the full text of
each section that imposes fines, penalties, forfeitures, taxes, or fees.
   (D)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(l5))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Authority to sign and execute checks, withdraw and deposit funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Specific Investment Policy
   
33.25   Purpose
   
33.26   General policy
   
33.27   Delegation of authority
   
33.28   Scope
   
33.29   Investment objectives
   
33.30   Investment authority
   
33.31   Ethics and guidelines
   
33.32   Authorized investments
   
33.33   Limitations on investment transactions
   
33.34   Diversification of investments
   
33.35   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
33.36   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.37   Collateral
   
33.38   Investment reporting
   
33.39   Investment policy adoption
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "BUDGET." A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "DEBT SERVICE." The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES." Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR." The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS." Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING." Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles; and
      (3)   Readily provide such financial data as may be required by the
federal revenue sharing program.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than thirty (30) days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. These reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, expressed or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   After the close of each fiscal year, the city shall cause each
fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Kentucky Department for Local Government for
information purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal
year being audited.
      (2)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available an electronic copy of the audit report required under subsection (A)
(1) of this section to the Legislative Research Commission to be used for the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with an auditor, who
shall be a certified public accountant or the Auditor of Public Accounts. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor shall be employed to examine the basic financial
statements which shall include the government-wide and fund financial
statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted government auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified accountant's work papers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   Each city shall, within thirty (30) days after the presentation of an
audit to the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance
with KRS Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds," which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500). In addition, any officer who fails to comply
with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject
to a forfeiture of not less than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500), in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all
proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident
bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040)
   (G)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
   (H)   If the city determines that the cost of newspaper publication exceeds
the cost of postage, supplies, and reproduction, the city may substitute
delivery of a copy of the advertisement by first class mail to each residence
within the publication area, in lieu of the newspaper publication required by
this section. (KRS 424.190(2))
   (I)   In lieu of the auditing requirements set forth in KRS 91A.040, if the
city for the fiscal year in question receives and expends, from all sources,
and for all purposes, less than $25,000, and has no long-term debt, whether
general obligation or revenue debt, the city may comply fully with the
provision of KRS 424.220 in lieu of the requirements listed in divisions (A)
through (I) above.
(KRS 91A.041)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 AUTHORITY TO SIGN AND EXECUTE CHECKS, WITHDRAW AND DEPOSIT FUNDS.
   The City Treasurer and the Mayor are the officers of the city authorized to
sign and execute checks, withdraw funds, and deposit funds for the city.
(Ord. 6-1-72, passed 1-11-72)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "ASSESSED VALUE BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
    "BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS."  The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   "COST." All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   "FAIR BASIS." Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   "FRONT FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   "IMPROVEMENT." Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   "PROPERTY." Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   "SPECIAL ASSESSMENT" or "ASSESSMENT." A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   "SQUARE FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Cross-reference:
   Special Assessments, see
T.S.O. VII
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.l7 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
SPECIFIC INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this Municipal Order is to establish specific
investment policy and strategy guidelines for the City of Independence,
Kentucky ("City") to achieve the goals of safety, liquidity, and yield for all
investment activities. The city shall review its investment strategies and
policy not less than annually. This policy serves to satisfy the statutory
requirement, specifically KRS 66.480 Investment of Public Funds, to define,
adopt and review a formal investment strategy and policy. All available funds
shall be invested in conformance with these legal and administrative
guidelines.
   (B)   Effective cash management is recognized as essential to good fiscal
management. The city's portfolio shall be designed and managed in a manner
responsive to the public trust and consistent with state and Federal law.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.26 GENERAL POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City of Independence (“City”) to invest funds in a
manner which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum
security of principal while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and
conforming to all state statutes and the city regulations governing the
investment of public funds.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.27 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the investment program is hereby delegated to
the Chief Administrative Officer and/or Finance Director, who shall be
responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of
controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials, and their
procedures.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.28 SCOPE.
   (A)   This investment policy shall include all investment activities of any
fund of the city. In addition to this policy, bond funds, including debt
service and reserve funds, shall be managed by their governing resolution and
law. City funds will be pooled for investment purposes.
   (B)   Financial assets of the city held and invested by trustees or fiscal
agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be invested
in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local government
funds and in accordance with the city's primary investment objectives.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.29 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The city's investment activities are designed to accurately monitor and
forecast expenditures and revenues in order to:
   (A)   Invest up to 100% of all idle funds;
   (B)   Guarantee that funds are always available when needed;
   (C)   Manage the portfolio to take advantage of changing economic conditions
that can aid in increasing the total return on the city's portfolio;
   (D)   Ensure that the city's primary investment objectives are met as
follows, in order of priority:
      (1)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the city's
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. To attain this
objective, diversification is required in order that potential losses on
individual securities do not exceed the income generated from the remainder of
the portfolio.
      (2)   Liquidity. The city's investment portfolio shall remain
sufficiently liquid to meet all operating requirements which might be
reasonably anticipated.
      (3)   Return on investment. The city's investment portfolio shall be
designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout the
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the city's investment risk
constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.30 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management responsibility for the city's investment program is hereby
delegated to the Chief Administrative Officer and/or Finance Director. They
shall have the authority to establish additional specific written procedures
for the operation of the investment program which are consistent with this
investment policy. The procedures shall include explicit delegation of
authority, if any, to persons responsible for investment transactions. No
person may engage in an investment transaction except as provided under the
terms of this policy and the procedures established by the Chief Administrative
Officer and/or Finance Director. The Chief Administrative Officer and/or
Finance Director shall be ultimately responsible for all transactions
undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate the activities
of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be designed to
prevent and control losses of funds arising from fraud, employee error,
misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in financial markets,
or imprudent actions by officers and employees. The Finance Director shall
maintain all records related to the city's investment program.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.31 ETHICS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The city adheres to the guidance provided by the “prudent investor
standard” - a standard of conduct where a person acts with care, skill,
prudence, and diligence when investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring,
exchanging, selling, and managing funds. The test of whether the standard is
being met is if a prudent person acting in a similar situation would engage in
similar conduct to ensure that investments safeguard principal and maintain
liquidity.
   (B)   All participants in the investment process shall act as custodians of
public trust. Investment officials shall recognize that the investment
portfolio is subject to public review and evaluation. The overall program shall
be designed and managed with a degree of professionalism that is worthy of the
public trust.
   (C)   In a diversified portfolio it must be recognized that occasional
measured losses are inevitable and must be considered within the context of the
overall portfolio investment return provided that adequate diversification has
been implemented. Each issuer shall be limited in terms of their percentage of
the portfolio, to minimize risk exposure.
   (D)   Investment personnel shall refrain from any activity that could
conflict with the proper execution of the investment program or that could
impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. All investment
personnel shall comply with the annual filing of a Statement of Financial
Interests and other applicable City and State ethics rules and regulations.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.32 AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   Funds not needed for current expenses or obligations of the city may be
invested in the following instruments that have maturities of five years or
less at the time of purchase, unless otherwise stated below:
   (A)   Obligations of the United States and of its agencies and
instrumentalities, including obligations subject to repurchase agreements, if
delivery of these obligations subject to repurchase agreements is taken either
directly or through an authorized custodian. These investments may be
accomplished through repurchase agreements reached with sources including but
not limited to national or state banks chartered in Kentucky;
   (B)   Obligations and contracts for future delivery or purchase of
obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States or a
United States government agency, including but not limited to:
      (1)   United States Treasury;
      (2)   Export-Import Bank of the United States;
      (3)   Farmers Home Administration;
      (4)   Government National Mortgage Corporation; and
      (5)   Merchant Marine bonds;
   (C)   Obligations of any corporation of the United States government,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation;
      (2)   Federal Farm Credit Banks;
      (3)   Bank for Cooperatives;
      (4)   Federal Intermediate Credit Banks;
      (5)   Federal Land Banks;
      (6)   Federal Home Loan Banks;
      (7)   Federal National Mortgage Association; and
      (8)   Tennessee Valley Authority;
   (D)   Certificates of deposit issued by or other interest-bearing accounts
of any bank or savings and loan institution which are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or which are collateralized, to
the extent uninsured, by any obligations, including surety bonds, permitted by
KRS 41.240(4);
   (F)   Bankers' acceptances for banks rated in one of the three highest
categories by a nationally recognized rating agency;
   (G)   Commercial paper rated in the highest category by a nationally
recognized rating agency;
   (H)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities;
   (I)   Securities issued by a state or local government, or any
instrumentality of agency thereof, in the United States, and rated in one of
the three highest categories by a nationally recognized rating agency; and
   (J)   Shares of mutual funds, each of which shall have the following
characteristics:
      (1)   The mutual fund shall be an open-end diversified investment company
registered under the Federal Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended;
      (2)   The management company of the investment company shall have been in
operation for at least five years; and
      (3)   All of the securities in the mutual fund shall be eligible
investments pursuant to this section.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.33 LIMITATIONS ON INVESTMENT TRANSACTIONS.
   With regard to the investments authorized in the previous section, the
following limitations shall apply:
   (A)   The amount of the city's funds invested at any one time in the
categories of investments authorized in divisions (H), (I), and (J) of the
previous section shall not exceed 20% of the total amount of funds invested on
behalf of the city.
   (B)   No investment shall be purchased for the city on a margin basis or
through the use of any similar leveraging technique.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.34 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that some level of risk is inherent in any
investment transaction. Losses may be incurred due to issuer default, market
price changes, or closing investments prior to maturity due to unanticipated
cash flow needs. Diversification of the city's investment portfolio by
institution, type of investment instrument, and term to maturity is the primary
method to minimize i
   (B)   The city's funds shall be diversified by security type and
institution. With the exception of fully insured or fully collateralized
investments, and except for authorized investment pools, no more than 20% of
the city's total investment portfolio shall be invested in a single security
type or with a single financial institution.
   (C)   To the extent possible, the city will attempt to match its investments
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a specific cash flow
need, the city's funds should not, in general, be invested in securities
maturing more than three years from the date of purchase. However, the City may
collateralize its repurchase agreements using longer dated investments not to
exceed five years to maturity. Reserve funds may be invested in securities
exceeding three years if maturity of the investments are made to coincide as
nearly as practicable with the expected use of funds.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.35 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The Finance Director shall maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services to the city. In addition, a list
shall be maintained of approved security brokers/dealers, selected by
creditworthiness.
   (B)   All financial institutions and broker/dealers who desire to provide
investment services to the city shall supply the finance director with
information sufficient to adequately evaluate the institution and answer any
and all inquiries posed by the Finance Director or the governing body,
including the following information:
      (1)   Audited financial statements.
      (2)   Regulatory reports on financial conditions.
      (3)   Written Memorandum of Agreement for the deposit of funds or trading
resolution, as appropriate.
      (4)   Proof of National Association of Security Dealers certification and
proof of state registration.
      (5)   Any additional information considered necessary to allow the
Finance Director to evaluate the creditworthiness of the institution.
   (C)   No financial institution shall be selected as a depository of the
city's funds if the city's funds on deposit at any time will exceed 10% of the
institution's capital stock and surplus.
   (D)   The Finance Director shall evaluate the financial capacity and
creditworthiness of financial institutions and broker/dealers prior to the
placement of the city's funds. The Finance Director shall conduct an annual
review of the financial condition and registrations of financial institutions
and brokers/dealers and, based on this review, make any recommendations
regarding investment policy or program changes determined to be necessary.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.36 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   To protect against potential fraud and embezzlement, investment assets
shall be secured through third-party custody and safekeeping procedures. Bearer
instruments shall be held only through third-party institutions. The Chief
Administrative Officer, Finance Director and any other officers or employees of
the city authorized to engage in investment transactions shall be bonded in an
amount established by the governing body.
   (B)   Collateralized securities, such as repurchase agreements, shall be
purchased using the delivery versus payment procedure.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.37 COLLATERAL.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to require that all cash and investments
maintained in any financial institution named as a depository be
collateralized. In order to anticipate market changes and provide a level of
security for all funds, the collateralization level shall be 110% of the market
value of principal, plus accrued interest. Collateral shall be limited to the
types of instruments authorized as collateral for state funds in KRS 41.240.
   (B)   Collateral shall always be held by an independent third-party
custodian with whom the city has a current custodial agreement. A clearly
marked evidence of ownership (safe-keeping receipt) must be supplied to the
city. The right of collateral substitution is hereby granted.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.38 INVESTMENT REPORTING.
   The Finance Director shall prepare and submit to the governing body a
monthly report regarding the status of the City's investment program.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
§ 33.39 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   (A)   The city's investment policy shall be adopted by order of the
governing body and shall become effective on the date set forth in the order.
The policy shall be reviewed annually and revised, as appropriate. Any
amendments to this policy must be made by order of the governing body.
   (B)   Any investment held on the date of initial adoption of this policy
which does not meet the guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from its
provisions. At maturity or liquidation, the monies so invested, if reinvested,
shall be reinvested only in accordance with this policy. The Finance Director
may take a reasonable period of time to adjust the existing portfolio to the
provisions of this policy in order to avoid the premature liquidation of any
current investment.
(Municipal Order 2018-MO-03, passed 11-12-18)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Public records protected from disclosure
Cross-reference:
   For provisions concerning prohibiting disclosure of executive session
information, see §
32.26
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE.” A photograph or
image of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes
when the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS
520.010, or photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
   “CITY.” The city government of this city.
   “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.” The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE” shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   “CUSTODIAN.” The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The “CUSTODIAN” having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   “MECHANICAL PROCESSING.” Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   “MEDIA.” The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.” The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN” of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   “PERSON.” A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.” Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a “public
agency”, as defined by this section; a member or employee of a “public agency”,
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a “public agency” as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each “public agency” is defined in this section.
   “PUBLIC RECORDS.” All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. "PUBLIC RECORDS" shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in subsection (1)(h) of KRS
61.870 that are not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations
funded by state or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
34.12.
   "REASONABLE FEE" or "FEE." The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non-exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   “REQUEST.” An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   “RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.”
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in paragraphs (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
to e.
   “SOFTWARE.” The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. “SOFTWARE” consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   As defined in §
34.01, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
34.12, any resident of the Commonwealth desiring to inspect or copy the public
records of the city shall make a request or complete a written application for
such records at the office of the City Clerk during regular office hours,
except during legal holidays. The written application shall be hand delivered,
mailed, sent via facsimile, or e-mailed to the City Clerk’s office. The City
Clerk may require the applicant to provide a statement in the written
application of the manner in which the applicant is a resident of the
Commonwealth under KRS 61.870(10). The City Clerk shall not require the use of
any particular form for the submission of an open records request, but shall
accept for any request the standardized form developed under KRS 61.876. (KRS
61.872(2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a resident of the Commonwealth’s
request is in compliance with the open records law and the requested records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. Suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the
City Clerk for the inspection. No resident of the Commonwealth shall remove
original copies of public records from the office of the City Clerk without the
written permission of the Mayor. (KRS 61.872(1)).
   (C)   A resident of the Commonwealth may inspect public records during the
regular business hours of the city, or by receiving copies of the public
records from the office of the City Clerk through the mail if the person’s
residence or principal place of business is outside of the county in which the
public records are located and after he precisely describes the public records
which are readily available within the office of the City Clerk. If the
resident of the Commonwealth requesting the public records requests that the
records be mailed, the official custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of
all fees and the cost of mailing. (KRS 61.872(3))
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
34.01.
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
(KRS 61.874(2)(a))
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 82 inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2)(b))
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section: or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant and shall
furnish the name and location of the custodian of the public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed five (5) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five (5) days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five (5) day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or
in part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority, and
shall constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General's request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the denial of the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute
appeal proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief
in the circuit court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the
request, or if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the
Attorney General's opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes
proceedings in circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of
such action.
Statutory reference:
   See KRS 61.880, 61.882
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained (i) in conjunction with an
application or the administration of a loan or grant; (ii) in conjunction with
an application for or the administration of assessments, incentives,
inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS Chapter 154; (iii) in
conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise, including mineral
exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable plans,
appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making, preparing,
compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which are trade
commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review of a
license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to records
the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6) The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or feasibility
estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative to the
acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information could pose an articulable risk of harm to the agency or its
investigation by revealing the identity of informants or witnesses not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under this chapter.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31.
      (17)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
      (18)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (19)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material. (KRS
61.878)
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.05   Meetings open to the public
   
34A.06   Requirements for closed sessions
   
34A.07   Public meeting schedules
   
34A.08   Special meetings
   
34A.09   Video teleconferences
   
34A.10   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "ACTION TAKEN." A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   "MEETING." All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   "MEMBER." A member of the governing body of a public agency. "Member" does
not include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   "PUBLIC AGENCY." Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public
agency", as defined by this section; a member or employee of a "public agency",
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each "public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   "VIDEO TELECONFERENCE." One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.05 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his or her
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under §
34.12(A)(13). However, that portion of any public agency meeting shall not be
closed to a member of the Kentucky General Assembly.
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
      (11)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(m). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly; and
      (12)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapter 5A or 56 or other state or
local law to select a successful bidder for award of a state contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members
where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific
issues.
(KRS 61.810)
§ 34A.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05(A)(1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of §
34A.05 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in § 34A.04(A) paragraphs
(2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students, (5), (6), (7), (8),
(9) and (10) are excluded from the requirements of subsection (A) of this
section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.07 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of all public agencies of this state, and any committees
or subcommittees thereof, shall be held at specified times and places which are
convenient to the public. In considering locations for public meetings, the
agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws, or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of that public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.08 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B)(C) and (D) of
this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (A)(1) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.09 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two (2) or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C) The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D) Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of subsection (B)(2)
through (4) of this section.
§ 34A.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
                 
Cross-reference:
   Rules of Procedure, see §§
32.20 -
32.25.
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   35.01 through 35.24 Reserved
Police Department
   
35.25   Establishment of Department; Police Chief and officers
   
35.26   Holidays
   
35.27   State Law Enforcement Council Program
   
35.28   Repayment of training costs
   
35.29   Policies and procedures adopted
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.40   Establishment
   
35.41   Fire Chief
Board of Housing Appeals
   
35.55   Establishment
Board of Ethics
   
35.65   Establishment
Code Enforcement Board
   
35.70   Establishment
   
35.71   Creation and membership
   
35.72   Enforcement powers
   
35.73   Appointment of members
   
35.74   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
35.75   Enforcement proceedings
   
35.76   Hearing; notice; final order
   
35.77   Presentation of cases
   
35.78   Appeals; final judgment
   
35.79   Fine schedule
   
35.80   Lien; fines; charges and fees
   
35.81   Lienholder notification system
   
35.82   Liens
   
35.83   Immediate action
   
35.84   Purpose
Cross-reference:
   For abatement procedures of the Code Enforcement Board, see §
93.30
§§ 35.01 THROUGH 35.24 RESERVED.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT; POLICE CHIEF AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
   (B)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police, Assistant
Police Chief, two Captains, a specialist and regular police officers.
(Ord. 2-6-87, passed 6-23-87; Am. Ord. 1990-0-7, passed 4-10-90; Am. Ord. 2001-
0-13, passed 9-10-01)
      (1)   The Police Chief, Assistant Police Chief, the two Captains, and all
police officers shall be appointed by the Mayor at will, and may be removed by
the Mayor at will.
      (2)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Police Chief, Assistant
Police Chief, Captain, or as a police officer unless such person has taken the
oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
      (3)   Training and experience shall consist of any combination of
education, training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge,
skills, and abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position of
Police Chief, Assistant Police Chief, Captain, or police officer.
   (C)   Subject to the executive authority of the Mayor, the Chief of Police
shall be responsible for the organization and operation of the Police
Department of the city, and he shall supervise, direct, and control the
equipment and personnel thereof in the enforcement of all statutes, laws, and
ordinances.
   (D)   The compensation of the Police Chief, Assistant Police Chief, the two
Captains, and all police officers shall be in an amount to be established by
City Council by ordinance from time to time as set forth in §
31.02. All full-time police officers shall be paid twice monthly.
(Ord. 4-2-78, passed 3-9-78; Am. Ord. 2001-0-13, passed 9-10-01)
§ 35.26 HOLIDAYS.
   Holidays shall be given in accordance with the city's employment policies.
§ 35.27 STATE LAW ENFORCEMENT COUNCIL PROGRAM.
   The city shall abide by all laws, rules, and regulations adopted by the
State Law Enforcement Council Program.
(Ord. 3-2-78, passed 2-23-78)
Statutory reference:
   State Law Enforcement Council, see KRS 15.310 et seq.
§ 35.28 REPAYMENT OF TRAINING COST.
   All police appointees, as a condition of their appointment, must agree to
reimburse the city for their training expenses if they leave the city within
two (2) years after their appointment date, and become employed by another
governmental unit or entity as a member of the same service for which they were
trained by the city according to the following schedule:
   (A)   If they remain with the city for more than two (2) years after the
date of employment, there shall be no obligation of repayment.
   (B)   If they leave the city prior to their first anniversary date, they
shall reimburse the city a full one hundred (100%) percent of cost of training.
   (C)   If they leave the city after the first anniversary date of their
employment but prior to their second year anniversary, they shall reimburse the
city a full one hundred (100%) percent of cost of training.
(Ord. 1991-0-1, passed 3-26-91)
§ 35.29 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the policies and procedures for the police
department, which are made a part hereof by reference for police policies and
procedures for the city. A copy of the policies and procedures is on file in
the office of City Clerk.
(Ord. 1993-0-10, passed 8-24-93; Am. Ord. 1994-0-28, passed 11-8-94)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.40 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A volunteer Fire Department is hereby established in the city.
§ 35.41 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The position of Fire Chief is hereby established and created, to be
filled on a volunteer basis.
   (B)   Subject to the executive authority of the Mayor and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the firefighters and approved by the Mayor, the
Chief of the Fire Department shall be responsible for the organization and
operation of the Fire Department. He shall supervise, direct, and control the
equipment of the Fire Department and the firefighters in their response to
fires and the extinguishment thereof and the plans, preparations, procedures,
practice, and training in regard thereto. He may, as Chief of the Fire
Department, perform or cause to be performed all other actions authorized by
law, ordinance, or regulation.
BOARD OF HOUSING APPEALS
§ 35.55 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Housing Appeals, see § 150.23.
BOARD OF ETHICS
§ 35.65 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Ethics, see §§
38.40 et seq.
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 35.70 DEFINITIONS.
   "ABATEMENT COSTS." A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   "CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   "FINAL ORDER." Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
35.76(E);
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven (7) days as provided in §
35.75(F); or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
35.75(F).
   "IMMINENT DANGER." A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   "JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD." An administrative body created and acting
under the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839.
   "ORDINANCE." An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   "OWNER." A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   "PREMISES." A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.71 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8811(1)(b), the city participates in a Joint Code
Enforcement Board through an Interlocal Agreement executed with other
participating city and county members. This Joint Code Enforcement Board shall
operate in lieu of a City Code Enforcement Board, and have jurisdiction and
authority throughout the city in the same manner as a City Code Enforcement
Board created under KRS 65.8811(1)(a).
   (B)   The city's representation on the Joint Code Enforcement Board is
established through the Interlocal Agreement with the participating cities and/
or Kenton County, and any and all amendments to the Interlocal Agreement. The
City shall appoint one (1) member, and two (2) alternate members to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board. All appointments shall be made by the
Mayor, with approval of the City Council. Members of the Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board shall serve consistent with the provisions of the
Interlocal Agreement.
   (C)   All appointments to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
shall be for a term of three (3) years. Upon expiration of a term, a member or
alternate member may be re-appointed by the Mayor, with approval by the City
Council.
   (D)   Each member and alternate member appointed by the city to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall have resided within the boundaries of
the city for a period of at least one (1) year prior to the date of the
member's appointment, and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
   (E)   In the event that the appointed member of the city vacates his/her
membership on the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board, the City shall,
following the procedures in KRS 65.8811, fill the vacancy within sixty (60)
days. If the Mayor has not filled the vacancy within sixty (60) days, then the
remaining member of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall fill
the vacancy with another person who meets the qualifications in KRS 65.8811.
All vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Any member or alternate member appointed by the Mayor to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board, pursuant to KRS 65.8811, may be removed by
the Mayor for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. In the
event of removal, the Mayor shall submit a written statement to the member
subject to removal, and to the City Council, setting forth the reasons for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right to appeal the removal to
the Kenton County Circuit Court.
   (G)   Any member or alternate member shall, prior to entering their duties,
take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   The members of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board may be
compensated or reimbursed per the terms of the Interlocal Agreement, and its
amendments.
   (I)   No member or alternate member appointed by the City to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
   (J)   A copy of the governing Interlocal Agreement shall be maintained in
the Office of the City Clerk for inspection by the public.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.72 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.73 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   Membership, oath and terms of office, quorum, vacancies, removal of members,
and other statutory requirements related to the Board's activities shall be as
stated in the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act and as set forth by
the Interlocal Agreement for the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
(hereinafter "Interlocal Agreement") filed of record with the Kenton County
Clerk in Book C5439, Page 321 as incorporated by reference as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.74 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall have the powers and
duties as set forth by the Interlocal Agreement for the Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board filed of record with the Kenton County Clerk in Book
C5439, Page 321 as incorporated by reference as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.75 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary, if a Code Enforcement
Officer believes, based on his personal observation or investigation, that a
person has violated a city ordinance, he shall issue a notice of violation
allowing the alleged violator a specified period of time to remedy the
violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged violator fails or refuses to
remedy the violation within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the
premises at the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation;
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering a copy of the
citation to Board Chairman.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven (7) days of the date of issuance by either paying the
civil fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven (7) days, the person shall
be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.76 HEARING; NOTICE; FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven (7) days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.77 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board may be presented by an attorney
selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a member
of the city's administrative staff.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.78 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
35.76(E) may be made to the Kenton County District Court within thirty (30)
days of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the
filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any
civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) of this section, the Code
Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.79 FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board shall be subject to the schedule of civil fines as set forth
by separate ordinance.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.80 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city delegates the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board to
prepare and record liens on its behalf.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined by “FINAL ORDER”, or by a final
judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance. The
lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of the Code Enforcement
Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and
regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten (10) years following the
date of the non-appealable final order or final court judgment.
   (D)   Subject to §
35.81, the lien shall take precedence over ail other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action
against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.81 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall establish and maintain
a lienholder notification system on behalf of the city. The Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed
liens, as provided in §
35.80, in accordance with the provisions of KRS 65.8836.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.82 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
35.80 may, within forty-five (45) days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
35.76:
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
35.83.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
35.80 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
35.81 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the forty-five (45) day period
established in division (A) of this section expires. If the lien is fully
satisfied prior to the expiration of the forty-five (45) day period, the city
shall release the lien in the County Clerk's office where the lien is recorded
within fifteen (15) days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
35.80 and
35.81, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any other
remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.83 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
§ 35.84 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to conform to all provisions of KRS
65.8801 through 65.8839, commonly known as the "Local Government Code
Enforcement Boards Act" and any subsequent amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2016-O-11, passed 10-3-16)
CHAPTER 36: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
§ 36.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies for the city adopted by Ordinance No. 2016-O-13,
together with any amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference as if
fully set out herein. A copy of the policies are on file and available for
inspection, in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2016-O-13, passed 12-5-16)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
   
37.01   Election of county assessment
   
37.02   Tax rate established
   
37.03   Disposition of funds
   
37.04   Due date; penalties
   
37.05   Compensation for City Attorney for representation in actions in which
enforcement of lien is involved
   
37.06   Lien
§ 37.01 ELECTION OF COUNTY ASSESSMENT.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 132.285, the City Council elects to adopt
and use the annual Kenton County assessment for property situated within its
corporate limits as a basis for its ad valorem property tax.
(Ord. 1-8-86, passed 8-26-86)
§ 37.02 TAX RATE ESTABLISHED.
   The tax rate for each year on all real, mixed, and personal property
situated within the corporate limits of the city and not exempt by law shall be
as established by ordinance of City Council.
(Ord. 1-8-86, passed 8-26-86)
Cross reference:
   Ad valorem taxation rates, see
Table of Special Ordinances, Table X.
§ 37.03 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All revenues derived and collected from this tax may be disbursed for one or
more of the following purposes: police protection, public works, General Fund,
contingencies, or miscellaneous.
(Ord. 1-8-86, passed 8-26-86)
§ 37.04 DUE DATE; PENALTIES.
   (A)   Taxes shall be collected in the city by the City Clerk. All taxes
shall be due and payable by December 31 in the year of the assessment. Any
taxpayer who pays his city taxes in full by the end of the business day on
November 1 in the year of the assessment shall be entitled to a two percent
(2%) discount on the amount of the ad valorem tax. The discount shall not apply
to the garbage assessment.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes become delinquent on January 1 of the year following
the year of the assessment. After a tax bill becomes delinquent, a fifteen
percent (15%) penalty shall be added thereon, together with interest which
shall accrue on all unpaid taxes at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum will
be attached effective January 1 until paid, plus the cost of collection,
including without limitation, court costs and attorney’s fees, with a minimum
interest charge of ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. 1-8-86, passed 8-26-86; Am. Ord. 1999-0-08, passed 9-13-99; Am. Ord.
2000-0-15, passed 9-11-00; Am. Ord. 2017-O-11, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 2018-O-
11, passed 9-10-18; Am. Ord. 2019- O-05, passed 9-16-19)
§ 37.05 COMPENSATION FOR CITY ATTORNEY FOR REPRESENTATION IN ACTIONS IN WHICH
ENFORCEMENT OF LIEN IS INVOLVED.
   For each civil action filed by the City Attorney for the city for the
collection of delinquent taxes, penalties, interest, fees, commissions,
charges, or other expenses incurred by reason of delinquency in the payment of
taxes or in the process of collecting it, a reasonable attorney fee shall be
paid by the delinquent taxpayers and recovered as part of the cost of
prosecution of the civil action by the city.
(Ord. 3-5-79, passed 5-24-79; Am. Ord. 2004-O-08, passed 5-3-04)
§ 37.06 LIEN.
   In order to secure the payment of the ad valorem taxes hereby levied and
assessed, and all penalties, interest, fees, commissions, charges and other
expenses, including court costs and attorneys fees, incurred by reason of any
delinquency in the payment thereof or the process of collection, the city shall
have a lien upon the property upon which such taxes are hereby levied and
assessed. The lien shall have priority over all other obligations or
liabilities for which the property is liable, except state and county taxes,
with which it has equal priority.
(Ord. 1999-0-08, passed 9-13-99)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Purpose and authority
   
38.02   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.10   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.11   Receipt of gifts
   
38.12   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
38.13   Representation of interest before city government
   
38.14   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.15   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.20   Who must file
   
38.21   When to file statements; amended statements
   
38.22   Form of the statement of financial interest
   
38.23   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
38.24   Contents of the financial interest statement
   
38.25   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
38.30   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
38.40   Interlocal cooperation agreement
   
38.41   Appeals
   
38.42   Limitation of actions
   
38.43   Advisory opinions
   
38.44   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
38.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.238 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.238.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning:
   "BUSINESS."Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   "BOARD."The City of Independence Code Enforcement Board is created and
vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of
the City's Code of Ethics.
   "CANDIDATE."Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the county clerk or secretary of
state, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   "CITY."The City of Independence, Kentucky.
   "CITY AGENCY."Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   "EMPLOYEE."Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term "employee"
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   "FAMILY MEMBER."A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   "IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER."A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   "OFFICER."Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor.
      (2)   A City Council member.
      (3)   The City Clerk.
      (4)   The City Manager.
      (5)   The City Administrator.
      (6)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080.
      (7)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.10 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
to contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for
city office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, the prohibition in subsection (A)
of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
if the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless
the officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the
contract specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract
performance after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any
of the authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or
employee shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set
forth in subpart (3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
in any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or
other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.11 RECEIPT OF GIFTS
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than one hundred dollars ($100), whether in
the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or
promise, or any other form under circumstances in which it could reasonably be
inferred that the gift was intended to influence or could reasonably be
expected to influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her
public duties.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.12 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy.
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
   (C)   Unless the use is so small in nature that it confers no substantial
benefit upon the officer, employee, appointee or volunteer; and does not
interfere in any way with the city’s needed or intended use of such property.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.13 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter directly adverse to the city or any
city agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself in matters concerning his or her own interest.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.14 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.15 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) in consideration of an appearance, speech or article
unless the appearance, speech or article is both related to the officer’s or
employee’s activities outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the
officer’s or employee’s service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.20 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board:
   (A)   Elected city officials
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
   (C)   Members of the City Planning and Zoning Commission and Board of
Adjustment.
   (D)   Members of the Board created by this chapter.
   (E)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services or award contracts,
leases or agreements.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.21 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board, or the administrative official designated as the
custodian of its records by the Board, no later than 4:00 p.m., January 31,
1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no later
than 4:00 p.m. on January 31 each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency file his or her initial
statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board may grant a reasonable extension of time for filing a
statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.22 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board or the administrative official designated by the Board. The Board, or
the designated administrative official, shall deliver a copy of the form to
each officer and employee required to file the statement, by first class mail
or hand delivery, no later than December 1 of each year. The failure of the
Board or the designated administrative official to deliver a copy of the form
to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or employee of the
obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.23 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board shall be the "official custodian" of the statements of
financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board, or its designated administrative official
designated by the Board as the "custodian" as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board or
the designated administrative official for a period of five (5) years after
filing; provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after any election at which
a candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.24 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) during the preceding calendar year and
the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund
distribution, etc.)
      (5)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of one hundred dollars ($100) or more from any
single source, excluding gifts received from family members, received by the
filer or any member of the filer's immediate family during the preceding
calendar year.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.25 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board, or designated administrative official, shall notify by
certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial interests
who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement,
or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the Board. The
notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a date
by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and shall advise the
person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
subsection (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25) per day, up to a maximum
total civil fine of five hundred dollars ($500). Any civil fine imposed by the
Board under this section may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a
prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
NEPOTISM
§ 38.30 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   employment;
      (2)   appointment;
      (3)   promotion;
      (4)   transfer; or
      (5)   advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall directly
supervise or manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group and the family member benefits to no greater extent than any
other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibitions, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.40 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT.
   (A) The city adheres to the provisions herein; so adopted as to meet
requirements set forth by KRS 65.003.
   (B) Attached to Ordinance 2023-O-08 and incorporated herein by reference is
an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement authorized by KRS 65.210 et seq., which the
Independence City Mayor Christopher Reinersman is hereby authorized and
directed to sign on behalf of the City and the provisions of this chapter shall
be enforced by the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority, herein referred
to as the NKREA, and the Northern Kentucky Ethics Enforcement Committee
according to the provisions thereof.
(Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.41 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board may appeal the finding to the circuit court of the county
within thirty (30) days after the date of the final action of the Board by
filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall transmit to
the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the public
hearing.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.42 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one (1) year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.43 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board may render advisory opinions concerning matters under its
jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and circumstances, upon its
own initiative, or when requested by any officer or employee of the city or a
city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion.
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be    material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.44 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board or any other agency or official of the city or the
Commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as:
      (1)   Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or
employee of the city or any city agency discloses information which he or she
knows:
         (a)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity.
         (b)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, 61.870 to 61.884.
         (c)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
§ 38.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit to the
city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which
the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized as a result
of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the city in
a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the amount
of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   n addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board that an officer or employee of the city or any
city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be sufficient cause
for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the
executive authority of the city or city agency or by any other officer or
agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or
discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be
taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city
and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 1994-0-30, passed 12-13-94; Am. Ord. 2023-O-08, passed 6-5-23)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND TRASH
      
5l.    SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND TRASH
Section
Collection and Removal
   
50.01   Collection and removal fee
   
50.02   Payment to be made upon receipt of bill
   
50.03   Resident users; owner of property responsible for payment
   
50.04   Businesses responsible for collection and removal at their expense
   
50.05   Penalty fee for nonpayment
   
50.06   Garbage containers
Solid Waste Removal
   
50.10   Definitions
   
50.11   Collection; removal fee
   
50.12   Lien for delinquency
   
50.13   Use of fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
COLLECTION AND REMOVAL
§ 50.01 COLLECTION AND REMOVAL FEE.
   All residents of the city shall pay the amount set forth in the contract
between the City of Independence and a third party trash vendor, after
competitive bid, per year for the collection and removal of garbage, trash,
recycling and refuse from each resident’s premises.
(Ord. 1997-0-18, passed 9-23-97; Am. Ord. 1997-0-24, passed 10-28-97; Am. Ord.
2016-O-06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.02 PAYMENT TO BE MADE UPON RECEIPT OF BILL.
   Third party vendor shall bill each resident directly each month for trash
and recycling collection. Residents shall pay the third party vendor directly,
within thirty (30) days of receipt.
(Ord. 6-9-72, passed 9-14-72; Am. Ord. 2-8-82, passed 8-26-82; Am. Ord. 4-8-83,
passed 8-25-83; Am. Ord. 2-8-86, passed 8-26-86; Am. Ord. 1994-0-9, passed 4-
26-94; Am. Ord. 2016-O-06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.03 RESIDENT USERS; OWNER OF PROPERTY RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   Each residential unit, whether a single apartment, single unit within
a multiple dwelling unit or any line dwelling unit, shall be considered a
resident user of the garbage and trash collection and each shall pay the
required garbage and trash collection fee under §
50.02.
   (B)   In the event any tenant or person renting property does not pay the
third party trash vendor the sum for garbage and trash collection, the owner of
the property shall be responsible for the payment as well as any penalties and
interest.
(Ord. 1997-0-18, passed 9-23-97; Am. Ord. 2016-O-06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.04 BUSINESSES RESPONSIBLE FOR COLLECTION AND REMOVAL AT THEIR EXPENSE.
   All businesses, other than apartments or multiple dwelling units in the
city, shall have their garbage, trash, recycling and refuse collected and
removed from their premises at their own cost and may either do so through the
garbage collection agency of the city, or by private contract, but same shall
be removed from the city at least once each week to protect the general health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the city.
(Ord. 1997-0-18, passed 9-23-97; Am. Ord. 2016-O-06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.05 PENALTY FEE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   The third party trash vendor may charge a ten percent (10%) penalty for each
bill not paid within thirty (30) days. Interest shall accrue at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month.
(Ord. 1997-0-18, passed 9-23-97; Am. Ord. 2016-O-06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.06 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Any refuse, trash, or garbage that is placed within, at or near the
public rights-of-way for pick up by the city’s garbage collection contractor(s)
shall be so placed no sooner that 4:00 p.m. on the day prior to the regular
scheduled pick up, and shall be removed from within, at, or near the public
right-of-way no later than midnight the day of regular scheduled pick up. Any
and all refuse, trash, or garbage containers so placed shall have a secured lid
in place.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to any refuse, trash, or garbage that
is otherwise subject to special instructions given by the city’s trash
collection contractor, including, but not limited to such things as recycle
bins, old carpet, discarded appliances, and yard waste.
   (C)   Upon photographic confirmation that refuse, junk, trash, or other
debris, that has been placed at the curb for pick-up has not been removed, a
Violation Notice may be posted on the property within clear view. The Violation
Notice shall provide the date and time of posting and that the violation must
be corrected within 48 hours from posting.
   (D)   Upon the expiration of the 48-hour correction period, and junk, trash,
refuse, or other debris may be removed by the city and the property owner shall
be billed for the costs thereof, together with the monetary penalty provided
for in §
50.99.
   (E)   If the property owner fails to pay the fee as outlined above within 30
days, the city may file a lien against the real estate of for the amount of the
unpaid bill.
(Ord. 2003-O-04, passed 5-5-03; Am. Ord. 2009-O-04, passed 5-4-09)
SOLID WASTE REMOVAL
§ 50.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter the following words and phrases have the meanings
indicated therefore:
   “RESIDENTIAL UNIT.”   Each unit of any building which is used for
residential purposes as the only unit therein, or separately from any other
unit therein.
   “SOLID WASTE MATERIAL.”   Any material within the KRS 109.012(9) definition
of solid waste material.
(Ord. 1998-0-07, passed 8-18-98; Am. Ord. 2002-O-15, passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord.
2004-O-09, passed 6- 7-04; Am. Ord. 2006-O-19, passed 8-28-06; Am. Ord. 2016-O-
06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.11 COLLECTION; REMOVAL FEE.
   (A)   The collection and removal fees shall be as set forth in §
50.01.
   (B)   The city has contractually agreed to pay the third party trash vendor
for any delinquent accounts exceeding ninety (90) days to insure that the
health and welfare of the city is not harmed by uncollected trash sitting
curbside and the city’s employees being forced to pick up the trash. The
failure to pay the third party trash vendor, placing the city in a position of
having to provide subsidized trash collection for a residential unit is
declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 1998-0-07, passed 8-18-98; Am. Ord. 1999-0-09; Am. Ord. 2000-0-16, passed
9-11-00; Am. Ord. 2001-0-10, passed 8-21-01; Am. Ord. 2002-O-15, passed 9-9-02;
Am. Ord. 2004-O-09, passed 6-7-04; Am. Ord. 2006-O-19, passed 8-28-06; Am. Ord.
2016-O-06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.12 LIEN FOR DELINQUENCY.
   The city shall have a lien upon each mobile home, and upon each residential
unit upon which the residential unit has failed to pay the city’s third party
trash vendor, resulting in a nuisance and requiring the City to pay said bill
to alleviate the nuisance. In addition to the Civil fine set forth herein, the
residential unit shall also be subject to all other collection costs, including
but not limited to court costs and attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 1998-0-07, passed 8-18-98; Am. Ord. 2002-O-15, passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord.
2004-O-09, passed 6- 7-04; Am. Ord. 2006-O-19, passed 8-28-06; Am. Ord. 2016-O-
06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.13 USE OF FEES.
      The residential solid waste collection fees, charges and impositions
hereby established, levied, assessed and imposed, are those resulting from
public bid for collection by a third party trash vendor and all fees are paid
directly to the third party trash vendor. The city does collect any monies
associated with the third party trash vendor providing services pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 1998-0-07, passed 8-18-98; Am. Ord. 2002-O-15, passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord.
2004-O-09, passed 6- 7-04; Am. Ord. 2006-O-19, passed 8-28-06; Am. Ord. 2016-O-
06, passed 6-6-16)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any resident who violates the terms of §§
50.01 through
50.05 shall be subject to a fine not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
violation.
   (B)   Each violation, and every other failure to comply with the provisions
of §
50.06 shall be a separate and distinct offense, and each day of the
continuation thereof shall be a separate and distinct offense, for which the
offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $250. In the event of an
unsuccessful appeal of a citation for this offense, the offender shall also be
liable for the costs of said appeal of the Code Enforcement Board in the amount
of not less than $200 nor greater than $300.
   (C)   Each violation, and every other failure to comply with the provisions
of §
50.12 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $250, along with all outstanding
invoices owed to the third party trash vendor, including any penalty and
interest charged by the vendor. The city shall also retain the right to issue
said payment on the yearly tax bill.
(Ord. 6-9-72, passed 9-14-72; Am. Ord. 2-8-82, passed 8-26-82; Am. Ord 4-8-83,
passed 8-25-83; Am. Ord. 2-8-86, passed 8-26-86; Am. Ord. 1994-0-9, passed 4-
26-94; Am. Ord. 2009-O-04, passed 5-4-09; Am. Ord. 2016-O-06, passed 6-6-16)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Permit required for sewer service connection
   
51.02   Suitable toilet facilities
   
51.03   Use of public sewers required
   
51.04   Annexation petition required for outside residents
Sanitation District One Rules and Regulations
   
51.15   Adoption by reference
   
51.16   Approval of sewer system prior to construction required
Prohibited Discharges
   
51.25   Discharge of certain substances into storm sewer system prohibited
   
51.26   Storm or surface water discharged into sanitary sewer prohibited
Rates and Charges
   
51.35   Tap-in fees
   
51.36   [Reserved].
   
51.37   Sewer rate for users served by city treatment plant; delinquent
payments
   
51.38   Establishment of Sewer Fund
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION.
   No person shall install or cause to be installed any sewer service
connection, build a sewage system, or make any service connection to a public
sewer system within the city without obtaining a permit from the city.
(Ord. 9-1-78, passed 1-12-78)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.02 SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way on which there is now located a public
sanitary sewer is hereby required, at his own expense, to install suitable
toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the rules and regulations of the city
and Kenton County Sanitation District within ninety (90) days after date of
official notice to do so, provided the public sewer, or combined sewer, is
within five hundred (500) feet of the house, building, or property used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes.
(Ord. 10-1-78, passed 1-12-78; Am. Ord. 1994-0-5, passed 4-26-94)
§ 51.03 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   All property owners within the city must utilize the public sanitary
sewer when it becomes available to the property. At the time pubic sanitary
sewer becomes available, all property owners must discontinue using septic
tanks and/or package treatment plants.
   (B)   All users who utilize the city's main sewer line traversing from
Banklick Station Road northwardly to the Pioneer Drive area shall be assessed
and pay their share of the cost of constructing a sewer line which then
traverses and dumps into the main sewer line, except in the case of a
subdivision which has constructed its own sewer lines in the subdivision and
turned the lines over to the city.
   (C)   All properties located adjacent to a platted subdivision shall not be
permitted to have access to the sanitary sewer system in the subdivision as
constructed by the developer, unless the city and the developer approve the use
and the owners pay their share of the construction cost.
   (D)   When a sewer line becomes available to a parcel of property, the owner
of the property must tap-in to the sewer system at a location in accordance
with the city's sewer plans as designed by the city engineer and approved by
the city council.
(Ord. 1-4-89, passed - - )
§ 51.04 ANNEXATION PETITION REQUIRED FOR OUTSIDE RESIDENTS.
   (A)   It will be necessary and required for property owners outside the city
limits to petition for annexation into the city prior to tapping into water and
sewer lines within city boundaries or water or sewer lines owned by the city.
   (B)   The city will not permit any property owners not annexed into the city
to tap into city water or sewer lines.
(Ord. 1994-0-6, passed 4-26-94)
Cross-reference:
   Water service, see §
52.03
SANITATION DISTRICT ONE RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts the rules and regulations of Sanitation District
Number One of Campbell and Kenton Counties. A copy of these rules and
regulations shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 9-1-78, passed 1-12-78)
§ 51.16 APPROVAL OF SEWER SYSTEM PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED.
   All construction of a sewer system must be approved, prior to construction,
by the city or its designated agent, and shall be constructed in accordance
with the rules and regulations of Sanitation District One of Campbell and
Kenton Counties, together with all applicable state and local laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 9-1-78, passed 1-12-78)
Penalty, see § 51.99
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 51.25 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN SUBSTANCES INTO STORM SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge or cause to be discharged
into any natural outlet or storm sewer any sanitary sewage or other polluted
waters. Effluent from privately-owned individual household disposal devices
shall not be discharged into storm sewers.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any storm sewer
any of the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes:
      (1)   Any water or wastes which contain grease, oil, or other substances
that will solidify or become possible to break down at temperatures between
30oF. and 150oF.;
      (2)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded or emulsified to a
nonsoluble form;
      (3)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, asphaltic materials, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, lime slurry, lime residues, beer or distillery spent
grains, chemical residues, paint residues, cannery water bulk solids, or any
other solid or viscous substances, capable of causing obstruction to the flow
in sewers or other interference with proper operation of the sewage works;
      (4)   Any long half-life (over 100 days) of toxic radioactive isotopes,
without special permit from the city (the radioactive isotopes such as I131 and
p32 used at hospitals are not prohibited, if properly diluted at the source and
discharged in accordance with Atomic Energy Commission recommendations); or
      (5)   Any concentrated dye wastes, spent tanning solution, or other
wastes which are highly colored; or wastes which are of unusual volume,
concentration of solids, or composition, as for example in total suspended
solids of inert nature (such as fuller's earth) or in total dissolved solids
(such as sodium chloride, calcium chloride, or sodium sulfate); or wastes which
are unusual in B.O.D. Such wastes shall be subject to special review by the
city.
   (B)   This section establishes a standard for disposable wastes to city
storm sewers, in order to protect the city from any disposable or industrial
wastes entering the city storm sewers, and to enable the storm sewer system to
operate within the N.P.D.E.S. federal permit issued by the State Division of
Water Quality.
   (C)   The city may disconnect the water service in any emergency situation,
or to prevent a prohibited substance or property from going into the sewer
system, whenever this section is violated.
(Ord. 2-10-81, passed 10-22-81; Am. Ord. 1-11-83, passed 11-29-83)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.26 STORM OR SURFACE WATER DISCHARGED INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge or cause to be
discharged, either directly or indirectly, any storm water, surface water,
ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Any connections made either before or after the effective date of this
section shall be considered illegal and shall be subject to immediate removal
by the owner of the premises so connected and at the owner's expense.
   (C)   Should the owner of an illegally connected premises fail to remove the
connection within thirty (30) days, the city shall cause the connection to be
removed and the cost thereof shall be billed to the owner of the premises.
   (D)   No person, firm, or corporation shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into any natural outlet or storm sewer any sanitary sewage or other
polluted waters. Effluent from privately-owned individual household disposal
devices shall not be discharged into storm sewers.
   (E)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into
those sewers that are specifically designated and designed as storm sewers or
natural outlet approved by the city.
   (F)   No person, firm, corporation, or municipality constructing a sanitary
sewer, building, or house connection shall leave same open, unsealed, or
incomplete in a fashion as to permit storm, surface, or subsurface waters to
enter those sewers.
   (G)   The city may disconnect the water service in any emergency situation,
or to prevent a prohibited substance or property from going into the sewer
system, whenever this section is violated.
(Ord. 2-l0-8l, passed l0-22-8l)
Penalty, see § 51.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.35 TAP-IN FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a sewer tap-in fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for all persons making a tap-in to the Independence sewer system.
   (B)   The one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) tap-in fee shall be for the first
unit in a building and, for buildings with more than one (1) dwelling or family
unit, there shall be an additional tap-in fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each additional family unit over one (1).
(Ord. 7-5-87, passed 6-9-87)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.36 [RESERVED].
§ 51.37 SEWER RATE FOR USERS SERVED BY CITY TREATMENT PLANT; DELINQUENT
PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Where all of the water used or supplied to residences or businesses is
determined by water meter readings, the sewer rates shall be as follows:
 
Rates per l00 Cubic Feet/Water Usage (Cubic Feet) (Per Yearly Quarter)
0 - 800                                           $12.96 (minimum bill)
801 - 5,000                                       1.48
5,001 - 25,000                                    1.30
25,001 - 100,000                                  1.07
All over 100,000                                  .95
 
   (B)   Where the water used is not measured through meters, the quarterly
rate for each family unit (single residence, single family apartment, or
townhouse) shall be a flat rate of fifty-four dollars ($54.00) per quarter.
Flat rates for businesses shall be a minimum of fifty-four ($54.00) per
quarter. Where usage is believed by the Mayor or City Council to be greater
than thirty-six hundred (3,600) cubic feet of water usage per quarter, a
committee of two (2) Councilmembers appointed by Council, shall review each
case on an individual basis with the owner where possible. The committee shall
then make a recommendation to Council for its consideration in establishing a
higher flat rate that is commensurate with estimated usage.
   (C)   Billings; delinquent accounts.
      (1)   Billings shall be handled by, and payments received through
Sanitation District Number One of Campbell and Kenton Counties, under contract
with the city.
      (2)   All billings shall be due when mailed by the District. A penalty of
ten percent (10%) of the amount of all bills shall be added to those not paid
within twenty (20) days from the date of mailing, and any bill not paid within
thirty (30) days after mailing shall be considered delinquent.
      (3)   Delinquent accounts shall be handled in accordance with procedures
used by Sanitation District Number One, except the executing authority shall be
the Mayor or City Attorney.
(Ord. 5-2-80, passed 2-28-80)
§ 51.38 ESTABLISHMENT OF SEWER FUND.
   There shall be established a Sewer Fund for the city. All collections for
sewer maintenance charges, tap-in charges, and any other revenues from the
Sewer Department shall be placed into a Sewer Fund. The purpose of this Fund
shall be to maintain, operate, and repair the sewer system of the city.
(Ord. 10-1-80, passed 1-24-80)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating the provisions of §§
51.01,
51.15, and
51.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   For any violation of §§
51.25 and
51.26 the party responsible shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation. Each day shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Anyone violating §
51.35 shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each violation.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
51.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Each day it remains in violation, it will be a separate offense.
(Ord. 1994-0-5, passed 4-26-94)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Merger of city waterworks system with Kenton County Water District
Number One approved
   
52.02   Water extensions within city service area
   
52.03   Annexation petition required for outside residents
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 MERGER OF CITY WATERWORKS SYSTEM WITH KENTON COUNTY WATER DISTRICT
NUMBER ONE APPROVED.
   (A)   The city waterworks system is merged with Kenton County Water District
Number One, and all of the city shall be included in the boundaries of Kenton
County Water District Number One.
   (B)   The city shall transfer and convey all of the assets of the city
waterworks system to Kenton County Water District Number One.
   (C)   Under the merger agreement, Kenton County Water District Number One
shall assume and be solely responsible for all debts and obligations of the
waterworks system, including bonded indebtedness, the note to the Owen County
Rural Electric Corporation, and all other debts and obligations relating to the
operation of the waterworks system. Kenton County Water District Number One
agrees to provide service to the residents of the city who are presently served
by the city, and further agrees to expand and serve additional customers in the
city as soon as feasible and to the extent feasible.
   (D)   The City Council shall consult and confer with and advise Kenton
County Water District Number One where it desires to have water service
extended in the city.
(Ord. 2-11-73, passed 11-15-73)
§ 52.02 WATER EXTENSIONS WITHIN CITY SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   Kenton County Water District Number One will extend its mains upon
proper application to serve a customer within the city service area provided
that, in the sole opinion of the District, the extension is feasible,
practical, and not contrary to good operating practice, and will be in
accordance with the following rules and with the express approval of the
District:
      (1)   When the request is for the extension of a water main along an
existing street where the property has been wholly or partly developed, and
when the District's estimate of the net return from water service delivered
directly from the proposed extension and computed so as to be amortized over a
30-year period with a reasonable interest rate thereon, then upon approval of
the District, the requested extension will be installed by the District at its
own expense.
      (2)   When the District's estimate of the annual net return for water
service for water delivered directly from the proposed extension and computed
at the amortization over a 30-year period with a reasonable interest rate
thereon, would be less than the estimated cost of the proposed extension, then,
with the express approval of the District, the proposed extension will be made
after the applicant or customers shall have paid to the District, an amount
equal to the estimated cost of the extension, less the estimated net return
from water service amortized over a 30-year period with reasonable interest
thereon. The amount thus paid by the applicant or customers shall be retained
by the District as a customer contribution.
      (3)   Prior to construction of a proposed extension, the applicant or
customers shall pay to the District the tap-in fee plus the customer
contribution provided herein, if any, and shall agree to pay for all water
consumed. In the event the customer does not use the water service thereafter,
a monthly minimum bill shall be paid by the customer to the District,
commencing when the water line is completed and available for service.
      (4)   Where additional customers desire water service from the extension
at a later date, that customer shall pay to the District the same customer
contribution as previously paid by each customer when the extension was
constructed. In this event, the original customers will be returned their pro
rata share of the additional customer contribution, the same to be without
interest.
   (B)   All persons desiring to construct water mains and connect them to the
District's system in the city service area shall, prior to the commencement of
construction, abide by the following rules:
      (1)   Submit detailed plans of same to the District for approval. These
plans must be prepared by a civil engineer registered in the state, conform to
the requirements and specifications of the State and County Health Departments
and the Kentucky Inspection Bureau, and not interfere with the operation and
plans for expansion of the District, and shall conform to the location, type,
and size of mains prescribed by the District and conform to all other
reasonable regulations of the District.
      (2)   The District shall not agree to assume maintenance and repairs of
water mains constructed by others unless full control and ownership of those
mains is conveyed to the District, and the contractor agrees in writing to
assume full responsibility for maintenance and repairs to the water main for a
period of 12 months from the construction date.
      (3)   The District reserves the right to require all service or
transmission mains constructed hereunder to be at least as large in diameter as
the main to which it is connected and shall be a minimum of six inches in
diameter in subdivisions and improved areas and shall be greater in diameter
where the District believes the future growth of the area warrants.
   (C)   Failure to comply with any of these rules and regulations shall be
sufficient justification for the Water District to discontinue the service.
(Ord. 1-8-75, passed 8-14-75)
§ 52.03 ANNEXATION PETITION REQUIRED FOR OUTSIDE RESIDENTS.
   (A)   It will be necessary and required for property owners outside the city
limits to petition for annexation into the city prior to tapping into water and
sewer lines within city boundaries or water or sewer lines owned by the city.
   (B)   The city will not permit any property owners not annexed into the city
to tap into city water or sewer lines.
(Ord. 1994-0-6, passed 4-26-94)
Cross-reference:
   Sewer service, see §
51.04
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Speed Humps
   
70.40   Definitions
   
70.41   Program categories
   
70.42   Program objectives
   
70.43   Qualifying criteria
   
70.44   When voting requirement not met
   
70.45   Priority ranking system
   
70.46   Construction specifications (Single Hump)
   
70.47   Construction specifications (Speed Lumps)
   
70.48   Location selection guidelines
   
70.49   Signs and markings
   
70.50   Relocation of speed humps or additional speed humps
   
70.51   Removal of speed humps
   
70.52   Funding
   
70.53   Other funding
   
70.54   Public notification
Golf Carts
   
70.65   Definitions
   
70.66   Golf carts on city streets
   
70.67   Exemptions
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES." Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   "BOULEVARD." Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   "CROSSWALK." That portion of the roadway included within the extension of
the sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   "CURB." The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   "FUNERAL PROCESSION." Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   "INTERSECTION." That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or
not one such street crosses the other.
   “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Includes any automobile, truck, passenger automobile,
motorcycle, van, or any other vehicle that requires licensing through the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, including any of the aforementioned that are leased
by any person.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES." All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the Chief of Police.
   "ONE-WAY STREET." A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR." Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   "PARK." When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN." Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET." Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "POLICE DEPARTMENT." The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   "PUBLIC WAY." The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REVERSE TURN." To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY." The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   "ROADWAY." That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STOPPING." As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STREET." Every public way, including alleys.
   "TRAFFIC." Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   “VEHICLE.” Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways. “MOTOR VEHICLE.” Includes all vehicles, as
defined above except, road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on
which power shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only
on the site of construction and which is not practical for the transportation
of persons or property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon
rails; vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while
being operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more
than five (5) miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; vehicles
propelled by muscular power; and electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010(19))
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of Police, in order to ensure the safe and effective
control of traffic within the city, may authorize the placement of additional
traffic signs without approval by the City Council. Provided that, within
thirty (30) days after the placement of any additional traffic signs, the Chief
of Police shall inform the City Council in writing of the placement of the
traffic signs.
      (2)   The placement of any additional traffic signs by the Chief of
Police will be deemed approved by the City Council unless expressly rejected
within one-hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of notice from the Chief of
Police of placement of any traffic sign. Nothing in this section is to be
construed as a limitation on the powers of City Council to authorize the
placement of traffic signs within the city.
      (3)   The placement of any traffic sign by the City Council and/or by the
Chief of Police shall be in accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices, which is the official guideline used by the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
(Ord. 2002-O-01, passed 9-15-03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two (2) weeks. If
these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks,
the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go": Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop": Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing yellow alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way": Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of fifteen (l5) miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to
vehicles entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing yellow lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the signal
of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the provisions
of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any of the
public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric signal,
gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such barrier or
sign must be approved by the city.
   (B) Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty see § 70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A) It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on or
in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial advertising. Nothing
in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or
public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
SPEED HUMPS
§ 70.40 DEFINITIONS.
   “SPEED BUMP.” Single asphalt bumps covering approximately one (1) foot and
approximately five (5) inches in height. Found in shopping centers and parking
lots. Not installed on public streets.
   “SPEED HUMP.” Single asphalt hump, parabolic in shape, covering twelve (12)
feet of street with a height between three and one-quarter (3 1/4) and three
and three-quarters (3 3/4) inches.
   “SPEED LUMPS.” Asphalt mounds, parabolic in shape, covering twelve (12) feet
of street with a height between three and one-quarter (3 1/4) and three and
three-quarters (3 3/4) inches. The center mound or lump, has a width of five
and one-half (5 1/2) feet to accommodate the wheelbase of fire trucks and
buses. The lumps adjacent to the center lump vary in width to accommodate the
street width. Depending on the street width, a five and one-half (5 1/2) foot
lump may be placed in each travel lane.
   “SPEED SURVEY.” A survey of traffic speeds and volume conducted by the use
of a magnetic sensor(s) or air pressure hoses to determine the percentage of
traffic exceeding the speed limit. The speed survey shall be twenty-four (24)
hours in length.
   “UNDULATIONS.” A set of adjacent speed humps placed on the street.
   “85th PERCENTILE SPEED.” Otherwise known as the critical speed, is the speed
at or below which 85% of the traffic is moving. The 85th percentile speed is
used as one of the criteria to determine if a street qualifies for speed humps.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.41 PROGRAM CATEGORIES.
   There shall be two (2) types of speed hump categories: Residential and
Bypasses. The qualifying criteria for each category is as follows:
   (A)   Residential.
 
Residential.                            Bypass.
The segment must be 750 feet in length
between traffic controls, four way      The segment must be 500 feet in length
intersections, and/or curves with less  between traffic controls, four-way
than a 250-foot radius.  Property       intersections, and/or curves with less
owners within 1,000 feet of the         than a 250-foot radius.
proposed speed hump location shall
receive a ballot.
Posted speed limit must be 30 mph or    Posted speed limit must be 30 mph or
less.                                   less.
Street frontage of subject street       Street frontage of subject street
segment must be at least 75%            segment must be at least 75%
residential.                            residential.
                                        Street will not be considered for speed
Street will not be considered for speed humps, but will be considered for speed
humps, but will be considered for speed lumps.
lumps if it is a part of the Regional   A minimum of 75% of ballots mailed
Transit bus network, or identified as   shall be returned and a two-thirds
an emergency response route by the Fire majority of residents that vote are in
Department.                             favor of the installation of speed
                                        humps.
A minimum of 50% of ballots mailed      A speed survey shall indicate that the
shall be returned. A speed survey shall 85th percentile speed is at five or
be used as the primary determination    more miles per hour over the speed
for the percentage of property owners   limit.
required to install a speed hump. If
the speed survey shall indicate that
the 85th percentile speed is at eight
or more miles per hour over the speed,  Minimum average daily traffic (ADT) of
than 51 % of the property owners need   500 vehicles per day.
to vote in favor of the installation of The street(s) must serve to bypass**
speed humps.* If the speed survey shall major streets with a four-way stop, a
indicate that the 85th percentile speed signalized intersection, or another
is between five and seven miles per     street with speed humps.
hour over the speed limit than 75% of
the property owners need to vote in
favor of the installation of speed
humps.
 
   (B)   Bypass.
         (1)   * One (1) vote per parcel per property owner.
         (2)   ** To be considered a “bypass” location, the ADT must be at
least 50% higher than the volume that would be expected using the following
trip generation rates: ten (10) trips/day/single family residential (SFR) unit,
six (6) trips/day/multi family residential (MFR) unit, fifty (50) trips/day/
acre of school, and five (5) trips/day/acre of park. Land uses which do not
front the bypass locations itself, but which could reasonably be expected to
use the bypass street(s) should be considered when determining the expected
volume.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2016-O-08, passed 8-15-16)
§ 70.42 PROGRAM OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Speed humps serve to reduce vehicular speeds as well as to reduce cut-
through traffic on local residential streets. Both of these effects are
realized when speed humps are installed on a street.
   (B)   Other, less costly, forms of traffic control (such as stop signs)
should be considered the primary means of discouraging speeding and/or bypass
traffic, as long as they conform to state law, and local ordinance. Stop signs
are less costly to install and can be installed immediately at locations which
qualify. When these forms of traffic control are inappropriate, the location
may be studied further to determine whether or not it qualifies for speed
humps. The application of speed humps is limited to streets where geometric
configuration or design fails to passively deter many drivers from exceeding
the speed limit or from using streets as bypass routes. The proper application
of speed humps enhances public safety.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.43 QUALIFYING CRITERIA.
   (A)   In order for a residential street to be studied for speed humps, a
petition from ten residents from the affected street must first be submitted.
   (B)   A street qualifies for the installation of speed humps when the
results of an investigation demonstrate that the criteria presented in this
document are met for the respective types of programs. Once a street has
qualified, it will be assigned points and ranked with other qualifying streets
based on the criteria in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.44 WHEN VOTING REQUIREMENT NOT MET.
   If a street fails to receive the necessary two-thirds majority approval, the
street may not be considered again for speed humps/lumps for five years. Upon
approval of Council, a community may request a second speed survey, one year
after the initial vote, and if the second speed survey indicates at the 85th
percentile, the speed is at eight or more miles per hour over the speed, then a
street may engage in a second petition and vote. If the second petition and
vote fail the community must wait five years before initiating another request
for a speed survey pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2016-O-08, passed 8-15-16)
§ 70.45 PRIORITY RANKING SYSTEM.
   The following point allocation method will be used in order to rank streets
qualifying for the speed hump categories:
 
Residential                             Bypass
One point for every 50 vehicles         One point for every 25 vehicles
traveling the street in a 24-hour study traveling the street in a 24-hour study
period.                                 period.
                                        One point for each residential unit
One point for each residential unit     fronting the street, plus two points
fronting the street.                    for each 50 feet of school, park,
                                        playground, or apartment frontage.
Two points for every 85th percentile    Two points for every 85th percentile
speed of traffic exceeding the speed    speed of traffic exceeding the speed
limit.                                  limit.
 
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.46 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS (SINGLE HUMP).
   Upon installation of the single humps, the asphalt concrete speed hump will
have a width of twelve (12) feet, a minimum height of three and one-quarter
inches and a maximum height of three and three quarter inches (3 1/4” to 3 3/
4”), and a vertical curvature of seventy-two (72) feet (refer to Figure 1).
Speed hump will extend from lip of gutter to lip of gutter. There will be a
two-foot (2') horizontal taper originating at the crest of the speed hump and
converging at the lip of curb. Asphalt concrete shall be mixed and placed in
accordance with the City of Independence Specifications.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.47 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS (SPEED LUMPS).
   Upon installation of speed lumps, the asphalt concrete speed lumps will have
a width of twelve (12) feet, a minimum height of three and one-quarter inches
and a maximum height of three and three-quarter inches (3 1/4" to 3 3/4"), and
a vertical curvature of seventy-two (72) feet. The center lump (or lumps if the
design requires one lump in each travel lane) will be five and one-half (5 1/
2') feet across. There will be a gap between lumps of one-foot (1') to
accommodate the wheelbase of fire trucks and buses. The outside speed lumps
will extend from the center lump to the lip of the gutter. There will be a two-
foot (2') horizontal taper originating at the crest of the speed lump and
converging at the lip of the curb. Asphalt concrete shall be mixed and placed
in accordance with of the City of Independence Specifications.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.48 LOCATION SELECTION GUIDELINES.
   In selecting precise locations for the speed hump installation, the
following guidelines shall be adhered to:
   (A)   Speed humps shall not be located over manholes, water valves, or
whenever possible, within twenty-five (25) feet of fire hydrants, as they
prevent/impede access to these facilities.
   (B)   Speed humps should be located five to ten (10) feet away from
driveways, whenever possible, to minimize their effect on driveway access.
   (C)   Speed humps should be located on or near property lines, whenever
possible, to minimize the impact on (access to) individual properties.
   (D)   Speed humps should be located near streetlights, whenever possible, in
order to enhance their visibility at night.
   (E)   Speed humps should be located a minimum distance of two hundred (200)
feet from corners, whenever possible, and should never be located within a
corner radius.
   (F)   Where speed humps are constructed on streets having curves with
greater than a two-hundred fifty (250) foot radius, no speed humps shall be
located on the horizontal curve(s).
   (G)   Speed humps shall be spaced at a minimum interval of two- hundred
fifty (250) feet and a maximum interval of six hundred (600) feet. Speed humps
will be placed no closer than two hundred (200) feet from traffic control
devices or four-way intersections.
   (H)   No less than two (2) speed humps will be placed on a residential
street, as two (2) humps are the minimum for effective speed control. When
speed humps are to be installed at a bypass location, one (1) hump may be
placed in the street segment or one of the streets in a series of street
segments is less than six hundred (600) feet in length. The maximum number of
speed humps is dictated by street length and spacing requirements.
   (I)   To deter drivers from driving around speed humps where no vertical
curb exists, a two-inch (2") pipe shall be set in the sidewalk, centered on the
speed humps in each approach direction. The pipes shall be placed at a maximum
of six inches (6") from the back of the curb.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.49 SIGNS AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   All signs and markings required with the speed humps shall be part of
the contract bid package. There are two types of warning devices used to alert
motorist of upcoming speed humps: street signs and pavement markings. The
signing includes a thirty-inch (30) sign stating "SPEED HUMPS AHEAD" in four-
inch (4") series "C" letters, above which is a pictorial of a speed hump. A
second sign recommending a speed of fifteen (15) mph is placed directly below
the warning sign.
   (B)   Pavement markings shall include twelve-inch (12") wide longitudinal
ladder markings at four feet (4') on center, which are stenciled across each
speed hump. In addition, raised reflectorized pavement markers shall be
installed and placed on the centerline, positioned on the crest and in the
front of the speed hump from approach directions. This provides warning during
the night and early morning hours. All warning devices should be easily visible
on approaches to speed humps.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.50 RELOCATION OF SPEED HUMPS OR ADDITIONAL SPEED HUMPS.
   (A)   Changing the location or adding additional speed humps on a street may
be considered when all of the criteria listed below are met.
      (1)   (a)   For Residential Areas: Speed humps are ineffective in
reducing speeds of vehicles based on speed survey conducted for a twenty-four-
hour (24) period. If less than thirty (30) cars are observed in one (1) hour,
the survey shall be one and one-half (1 1/2) hours in length. The average
speeds must each be less than two (2) mph lower than those speeds demonstrated
prior to the installation of speed humps in order to be considered ineffective.
         (b)   For Bypass Locations: Speed humps are ineffective in reducing
the volume of vehicles, based on an average daily traffic (ADT) count. Traffic
volumes must be reduced by less than ten (10) percent from the street's ADT
count prior to the installation of speed humps in order to be considered
ineffective.
      (2)   Speed humps were placed in a location conflicting with the adopted
guidelines, and another location exists which does not conflict with the
adopted guidelines.
      (3)   There is a petition with a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the
street's residents in favor of the speed humps relocation. One (1) resident
signature per household having driveway access onto the street in question is
allowed; a resident may be either an owner or tenant.
   (B)   Relocation of speed humps which have been installed for less than two
(2) years will only be considered if the city is compensated by those
requesting speed hump relocation for the full cost of relocating the speed
humps, including design, construction, inspection, and administration.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.51 REMOVAL OF SPEED HUMPS.
   (A)   Removing speed humps from a street may be considered when all of the
criteria listed below are met:
      (1)   (a)   For Residential Areas: Speed humps are ineffective in
reducing speeds of vehicles based on speed survey conducted for a twenty-four
(24) hour period. The 85th percentile and average speeds must each be less than
two (2) mph lower than those speeds demonstrated prior to the installation of
speed humps in order to be considered effective.
         (b)   For Bypass Locations; Speed humps are ineffective in reducing
the volume of vehicles, based on an average daily traffic (ADT) count. Traffic
volumes must be reduced by less than ten percent (10%) from the street's ADT
count prior to the installation of speed humps in order to be considered
ineffective.
      (2)   Speed humps were placed in a location conflicting with the adopted
guidelines, and no other location exists which does not conflict with the
adopted guidelines.
      (3)   There is a petition with a two-thirds (2/3) majority of street's
residents' signatures in favor of the speed hump removal. One (1) resident
signature per household having driveway access onto the street in questions is
allowed; a resident may be either an owner or tenant.
   (B)   Removal of speed humps which have been installed for less than two (2)
years will only be considered if the city is compensated by those requesting
speed humps removal for the full cost of the original installation, including
design, construction, inspection, and administration.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.52 FUNDING.
   A street that qualifies for any one (1) of the speed hump categories may be
funded by the city, if there is available funding available, in the current
city budget cycle. Placement shall be determined using the Priority Ranking
System discussed in this subchapter. Those not funded will be considered, based
on the Priority Ranking System, as funding becomes available.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.53 OTHER FUNDING.
   A street which qualifies for any one of the speed hump categories may be
funded by an individual or a group of individuals. The individual or group of
individuals must enter into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the City
of Independence, wherein they agree to pay for all costs associated with the
installation of speed humps on their street (construction, inspection,
administration, etc). Once a MOU is executed, the location to receive speed
humps shall be included in the next city speed hump project. Private payment
for speed humps does not relieve a location from the requirement of a two-
thirds (2/3) majority of residents favoring the installation of speed humps, or
from any other criterion set forth in these guidelines.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04)
§ 70.54 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
   Public notifications, which are used for balloting and to inform residents
of purposed speed humps and to have them vote, may be distributed by fliers/
ballots mailed out to residents within 1,000 feet of the proposed speed hump
location.
Note: Fliers, which require a response, should be sent at least two and one-
half (2 ½) weeks prior to the response deadlines.
(Ord. 2004-O-07, passed 4-5-04; Am. Ord. 2016-O-08, passed 8-15-16)
GOLF CARTS
§ 70.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CITY STREET.” All public streets and thoroughfares located within the city
limits of the City of Independence but shall not include any state routes or
state thoroughfares.
   “GOLF CART.” Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four (4) wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than thirty-five (35)
miles per hour;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six (6) persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of two thousand five hundred
(2,500) pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum payload capacity of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles.
   “PERMIT.” A permit authorized to be issued under this section, issued by the
permitting authority upon receipt of an application developed by the City
Administrative Officer and receipt of payment of the permitting fee, for a
period not to exceed one (1) year.
   “PERMITTING AUTHORITY.” Kenton County Sheriff or his or her delegate.
   “PERMITTING FEE/INSPECTION FEE.” All golf carts shall be inspected by a
certified inspector designated by the Kenton County Sheriff and certified
through the Department of Vehicle Regulation to ensure that the golf cart
complies with KRS 189.286. The inspection fee shall not exceed five dollars
($5.00) with an additional fee not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) per trip
charged if it becomes necessary for the certified inspector to travel to the
site of the golf cart rather than having the golf cart brought to the Sheriff's
inspection area.
(Ord. 2023-O-01, passed 1-9-23)
§ 70.66 GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   The city hereby establishes the following requirements and regulations
concerning the operation of golf carts on city streets.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any city street, except in
strict compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any city street without having
obtained a permit and paid the permitting fee as required by this subchapter.
   (C)   Any person operating a golf cart on any city street must display a
sticker or permit issued by the city of, which identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the city.
   (D)   All golf carts that are to be operated on city streets must be
inspected by the Kenton County Sheriff's Department to ensure that the golf
cart complies with the requirements of KRS 189.286. The inspection results
shall be submitted by the applicant for a permit at the time of application for
the permit under this subchapter.
   (E)   Golf carts may only be operated on city streets that have a posted
speed limit of twenty (20) miles per hour or less. No operator of a golf cart
may cross a roadway at an intersection where the roadway being crossed has a
posted speed limit of more than thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
   (F)   All persons operating a golf cart on city streets under this
subchapter must ave a clid operator's license in his or her posession.
   (G)   Gold carts my only be operated on city streets between 8:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. Eastern Standard time.
   (H)   All golf carts to be operated on city streets must display a slow-
moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820.
   (I)   All golf carts to be operated on city streets shall be insured in
compliance with KRS. 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a public
roadway.
   (J)    Any peron operating a golf cart on city streets shal be subject to
the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189 and any ither peration of vehicles
upon city streets.
   (K)   All golf carts operating on city streets shall be equipped with rear
view mirrors, properly functioning lights (including brake lights, head lights,
and turn signals) and properly unctioning brakes.
(Ord. 2023-O-01, passed 1-9-23)
§ 70.67 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway under this subchapter is not
considered a motor vehicle and is exempt from:
      (1)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
      (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
      (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a golf cart that
is not used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a
golf cart path on a golf course.
(Ord. 2023-O-01, passed 1-9-23)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is provided shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00),
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   A late payment penalty of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shall be
charged for any ticket violation not paid within five (5) days.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
70.65 through
70.67, except §
70.66(B) shall, upon conviction of a first offense, be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00). Any person convicted of a subsequent violation of §§
70.65 through
70.67 within two (2) years of a prior conviction under §§
70.65 through 70.67 other than a violation of §
70.66(B), or a first violation of §
70.66(B) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Any person
convicted of a subsequent violation of §
70.66(B) within (2) two years of a prior conviction under §§
70.65 through
70.67 shall be fined not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and/or imprisoned not more than thirty (30)
days.
(Ord. 2023-O-01, passed 1-9-23)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limit
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.28   Weight limits
Funeral Processions
   
71.35   Funeral Processions
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in such distinctive
manner as to indicate such importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8))
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   The speed limit on all city streets, excluding county and state road and
highways, shall be twenty (20) miles per hour.
(Ord. 2001-0-03, passed 6-4-01)
Penalty, see 71.99(D)
Cross-reference:
   For specific speed limits, See
Ch. 74, Sch. I
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see § 71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see § 71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four (4)
lanes, with at least two (2) lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four (4) lanes or if changing lanes would
be impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   The weight limit of the bridge on the east end of Richardson Road,
just west of Crowe Road, is established to eight (8) tons.
   (B)   When determining a gross weight for a commercial vehicle, it shall
mean the combined gross weight of both a truck and trailer. It shall not
include a public school bus for transporting school children, fire, police,
other public protection vehicles or waste collection vehicles.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any commercial vehicle,
weighing in excess of 26,000 pounds to operate on Pelly Road in Independence,
Kenton County, Kentucky.
(Ord. 1996-0-20, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord. 2016-O-07, passed 7-11-16) Penalty,
see §
71.99
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.35 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety office
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378)
Penalty, see § 71.99(C)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PARADE." Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park or other public place in the city, or "CRUISING" as defined herein.
   "PARADE PERMIT." A permit required by this subchapter.
   "PARKING LOT." Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)    The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)    If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)    The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)    The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)    The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)    The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which
will constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of
the vehicles;
      (7)    The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)    A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
        (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
       (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
         (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)    The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)    The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)    The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great
a number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of
the city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)    The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)    The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
fire fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)    The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)    The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)    The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within thirty (30) days
after notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within thirty
(30) days after its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be fined not less than twenty dollars
($20) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250).
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than sixty dollars
($60) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500), or be imprisoned in the county
jail for not more than thirty (30) days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250) or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days
or
both. (KRS 189.378)
   (D)   Any person violating §
71.28(B) or (C) shall be punished by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250)
for each offense, as well as any remediation costs for damages to the roadway.
For a second and subsequent offense, a person shall be punished by a fine of
five hundred dollars ($500) and/or up to thirty (30) days imprisonment, as well
as any remediation costs for damages to the roadway.
(Am. Ord. 2016-O-07, passed 7-11-16)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Trucks over one ton in capacity prohibited from parking in residential
areas
   
72.14   Fire lanes
   
72.15   Abandonment prohibited
   
72.16   Improper registration plate
   
72.17   Prohibited parking generally
   
72.18   Boats and trailers on public ways
   
72.19   Parked trailers prohibited
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized
   
72.21   Required notice to owner; sale of a vehicle
   
72.22   Sale of the contents of a vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than thirty (30) minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited
at all times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten (10)
feet of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On the curbs or sidewalks in the city.
(Ord. 3-2-75, passed 2-13-75)
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within thirty (30) feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or
traffic-control device.
   (H)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5)-(7))
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any type of motor vehicle,
motorcycle, or other motor-propelled vehicle in any area of the city which has
been designated as a no-parking zone.
   (J)   No person shall park any type of motor vehicle, motorcycle, or other
motor-propelled vehicle on the north side of Independence Road from its
intersection with Madison Pike to the corporation line of the city.
(Ord. 4-12-76, passed 12-9-76; Am. Ord. 2002-O-14, passed 8-5-02)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to parking for persons with disabilities, appropriate signs shall be erected
giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in
conjunction therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to
which parking is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with divisions (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of seventy-two (72)
hours or longer. Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public
ways or streets of the city for a period of seventy-two (72) hours or longer
shall be deemed abandoned, and shall be subject to the regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles as set forth in
Chapter 90.
(Am. Ord. 2015-O-05, passed 3-2-15) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or abandon
the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or on an
area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of the
owner, lessee, or person in charge of any such property or facility. If at any
time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses in violation of
the provisions of this section, a warrant may be obtained in District Court by
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility, and the
Police Department, on written complaint of the owner, lessee, or person in
charge, shall remove or cause to be removed the vehicle in accordance with the
provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary not withstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities, when operated by a
person with a disability or when transporting a person with disabilities, may
be parked in a designated parking place for persons with disabilities, or when
parked in a metered parking space may be parked for two (2) hours for no fee,
or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two (2)
hours in excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a
loading zone for that period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of
the persons with disabilities to or from the parked vehicle, but in no
circumstances longer than thirty (30) minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.13 TRUCKS OVER ONE TON IN CAPACITY PROHIBITED FROM PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL
AREAS.
   It is unlawful for trucks of over one ton in capacity to be parked anywhere
in the city on a residential street. A residential street shall be defined as
an area where a majority of the buildings on a particular street are used for
residential purposes.
(Ord. 2-2-78, passed 2-23-78)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.14 FIRE LANES.
   A fire lane is hereby designated for emergency vehicles on the side of the
street where the water hydrants are located. In the event there are no water
hydrants on a street, the right-hand side of the street shall be designated a
fire lane as one enters the city street from the main thoroughfare. It shall be
illegal for anyone to park or leave standing any motor vehicle in any fire lane
in the city or on any turnaround or circle at the end of a dead-end street.
This shall apply to all city streets.
(Ord. 1-2-79, passed 2-8-79)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Designated fire lanes, see
Chapter 75, Schedule III
§ 72.15 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to abandon any automobile or other vehicle anywhere in
the city limits, including roadways. A vehicle shall be deemed to be abandoned
if one or more of the following has occurred: one or more of the vehicle's
tires has been deflated, the vehicle's registration has expired, the vehicle is
inoperable, or the vehicle is leaking a substantial amount of engine fluids or
has sustained severe body damage. Abandoned vehicles on city roadways are
subject to an immediate tow order by the Independence Police Department.
(Ord. 2021-O-01, passed 1-4-21)
§ 72.16 IMPROPER REGISTRATION PLATE.
   No person shall park a motor vehicle on any street, alley, or public lot
within the city without a valid registration plate affixed to the vehicle. Such
registration plate must comply with KRS 186.020.
(Ord. 2021-O-01, passed 1-4-21)
§ 72.17 PROHIBITED PARKING GENERALLY.
No person shall cause, permit, encourage, aid, assist or engage in the location
of a parked motor vehicle in the city in any of the following areas:
   (A)   Within 20 feet of any intersection of public streets or ways;
   (B)   Within ten feet of any fire hydrant;
   (C)   Within eight feet of any private driveway, other than a driveway
located within a circular cul-de-sac or turn-around at the end of the street;
   (D)   On any public street or way in the opposite direction of the direction
in which motor vehicles may be legally operated on that side of the street or
way on which the parked motor vehicle is located;
   (E)   On any street or public way in the city for a continuous period in
excess of 72 hours; and
   (F)   No parking within 20 feet of stop sign, no parking within 20 feet of
any intersection of public streets and more than 20 feet if police and Public
Works suggest through executive order.
   (G)   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in
either the parking on any other location of any motor vehicle upon any area of
ground which is either unpaved or paved with something other than concrete or
blacktop, or the use of any such area of ground therefor, except that any such
area of ground which was used therefor at the time of the enactment of this
section may be continued to be used therefor, so long as all portions thereof
are continuously covered with at least two inches of gravel.
(Ord. 2021-O-01, passed 1-4-21)
§ 72.18 BOATS AND TRAILERS ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, assist, encourage or engage in the
location of either a boat or a trailer, separately or in combination with each
other, upon any street or other public way within the city, except for boats
and trailers in the process of being towed by a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2021-O-01, passed 1-4-21)
§ 72.19 PARKED TRAILERS PROHIBITED.
   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, assist, encourage or engage in the
location of any parked trailer upon any street or other public way within the
city for any period of time in excess of 72 continuous hours.
(Ord. 2021-O-01, passed 1-4-21)
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release. Included herein shall be a
handling fee of seventy five ($75.00) dollars payable to the City of
Independence for the time of the officers utilized for the impoundment, all
pursuant to KRS 82.625.
(Am. Ord. 2011-O-08, passed 4-4-11)
§ 72.21 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER; SALE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance
with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
      (2)   If, after a period of forty-five (45) days, the applicable and
reasonable charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not
been paid, the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division
(B), may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have
been notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1),
ten (10) days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the
sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy
accrued charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a
waiver or release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner
or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
division shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to division (A)(3).
      (3)   (a)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten (10) days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
         (b)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS
281.928, shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification
number, owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (c)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten (10) days by the towing and storage company, then only ten (10)
days of storage may be charged.
         (d)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
         (e)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this division within forty-five (45) days of
notification, the towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title
under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (A)(3)(e).
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS
281.920 to 281.936, KRS 359.230 and KRS 376.275, and the owner does not
exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section
within forty-five (45) days of notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow
company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following contents of a
motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner's
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within forty-five (45)
days of the date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person's
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 72.22
(A), firearms and ammunition which are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within forty-five (45) days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be
transferred to the Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as
provided by KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2))
§ 72.22 SALE OF THE CONTENTS OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided for in §
72.21(B)(5) above, any contents exempted under §
72.21(B)(3), (4), (6), and (7) that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within forty-five (45) days of the date the vehicle was towed, may be sold or
otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company. Any contents
exempted under §
72.21(B)(1), (2), (8), and (9) that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within forty-five (45) days of the date the vehicle was towed, shall not be
sold, but shall be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing
company.
   (B) The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in a
vehicle’s trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner’s consent.
(KRS 376.275(3), (4))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Except as set forth in (C) of this section, no person shall cause or permit
any motor vehicle to be parked upon the pavement or right-of-way of any portion
of any city street at any time during which:
   (A)   There is an accumulation of snow and/or ice upon any portion of the
streets or highways of two (2") inches or more in depth; or
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor, Chief of Police, or other city official authorized
by the Mayor, finds that snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition
which mandates that the parking of motor vehicles on city streets be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
   (C)   If snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to
6:00 a.m., and the Mayor, Chief of Police, or other city official authorized by
the Mayor has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on city streets is
to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a city street may
remain so parked only until 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1995-0-2, passed 2-14-95)
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   The parking prohibition announced by the Mayor, Chief of Police, or other
city official authorized by the Mayor, under the authority of this chapter,
shall remain in effect until he announces the termination of the snow
emergency, in whole or in part, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Ord. 1995-0-2, passed 2-14-95)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be fined in an amount not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except as set forth in § 94.01.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets"
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$50.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Weight and width limits
SCHEDULE I: SPEED LIMITS.
Street Speed Limit (mph)
Street                                                Speed Limit (mph)
Centennial Boulevard                                   
   (Between Old KY-17 and the new relocated KY-17) 30
Cody Road                                             35
Declaration Drive                                     30
Delaware Crossing                                     30
Hogrefe Road                                           
   (From Bristow Road to 732 Hogrefe Road)         35
   (From 732 Hogrefe Road to Fremont Drive)        20
Marshall Road                                         35
Mills Road                                            35
Oliver Road                                           35
Pelly Road                                            25
Stephens Road                                         25
 
(Ord. 2008-O-12, passed 12-1-08; Am. Ord. 2011-O-01, passed 1-10-11; Am. Ord.
2022-O-09, passed 9-12-22)
SCHEDULE II: WEIGHT AND WIDTH LIMITS.
   (A) Motor vehicles and trucks having a gross vehicle weight rating (“GVWR”,
as defined at KRS 81A.010) in excess of 11,000 pounds and a width greater than
seven feet may not travel on Stephens Road, beginning at Fowler Creek (State
Route 1486) to Oliver Road.
   (B) Truck-tractors, semi-trailers, trailers, tow trucks, dump trucks,
equipment trailers and trucks having a box body appearance may not travel on
Stephens Road. For purposes of this schedule, a truck has a “BOX BODY
APPEARANCE” where its chassis is manufactured separately from the box that is
attached to it, the box is either rectangular or square in size, and the box is
covered or fully enclosed.
   (C) Residents that live within the restricted area may apply to the city for
a permit for limited and special one time use of the restricted area.
   (D) Any public safety vehicles, school buses and garbage trucks are exempt
from this restriction.
   (E) All violations of this schedule shall be punished as a city citation in
the amount of $500 for a first offense and $750 for a second and subsequent
offense.
(Ord. 2025-O-01, passed 2-3-25)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
    
 I.   No parking
   
 II.   Limited parking
   
III.   Fire lanes
SCHEDULE I: NO PARKING.
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle, trailer, truck, motorcycle, or
the like on the following streets at any time:
STREET SIDE DESCRIPTION ORD. NO. DATE PASSED
STREET       SIDE  DESCRIPTION                            ORD. NO.  DATE PASSED
Apple Drive  Both  First 420 feet, as measured from its   2010-O-01 1-4-10
                   intersection with Madison Pike
Carrie Way         First 350 feet, as measured from its   2006-O-21 11-20-06
                   intersection with Madison Pike
Flemming Dr. North From its intersection with Madison     1-12-71   12-14-71
                   Pike to the end thereof
                   Beginning at a point 720 feet south of
Madison Pk.  West  the intersection of Independence       12-12-68  - -68
                   Station Rd. and Madison Pk., thence
                   south for 285 feet
                   Beginning at a point 600 feet north of
Madison Pk.  West  the intersection of Banklick Station   12-12-68  - -68
                   Rd. and Madison Pk., thence for a
                   distance of 393 feet to Carrie Way
                   Beginning at a point 300 feet south of
                   the intersection of Independence
                   Station Rd. and Madison Pk., thence
Madison Pk.  West  for a distance of l400 feet to the     1-5-70    - -70
                   center line of McCullum Rd. as
                   extended to the west right-of-way line
                   of Madison Pk.
                   Beginning at a point at the
Madison Pk.  West  intersection of Banklick Station Rd.   1-5-70    - -70
                   and Madison Pk., thence south for 850
                   feet to Locust Ln.
                   From the intersection of Independence
Madison Pk.  West  Station Rd. southwardly to the         1-2-71    2-9-71
                   southside of the property known as the
                   St. Cecelia Church property
                   Starting at a point 25 feet south of
                   the lane or driveway to the Dawson
Madison Pk.  West  Bagby property and terminating at a    1-4-72    4-11-72
                   point 25 feet north of the driveway to
                   the Gordon Riley grocery property
                   Starting at a point 25 feet south of
                   the drivewayof the Gordon Riley
Madison Pk.  West  grocery property and terminating at a  1-4-72    4-11-72
                   point 25 feet north of the driveway to
                   the U.S. post office
                   Starting at a point 25 feet south of
Madison Pk.  West  the driveway to the U.S. post office   1-4-72    4-11-72
                   and terminating at a point 25 feet
                   north of Banklick Station Rd.
                   Starting at a point 25 feet south of
Madison Pk.  West  Banklick Station Rd. and terminating   1-4-72    4-11-72
                   l50 feet south of Banklick Station Rd.
 
Penalty, see § 72.99
SCHEDULE II: LIMITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle, motorcycle,
trailer, or other vehicle or livery conveyance in the following designated
areas for more than the stated time limit:
 
STREET PASSED  SIDE TIME LIMIT                ORD. NO.  DATE
Alvin Drive    Both Between 7 a.m. and 3 p.m. 2000-0-17 9-11-00
Madison Street West One hour                  1-4-72    4-11-72
 
Penalty, see § 72.99
SCHEDULE III: FIRE LANES.
   There shall be no parking on the side of the street where a fire lane is
located on the following streets:
 
STREET       DESCRIPTION             ORD. NO. DATE PASSED
Kimberly Dr. Entire length of street 2-3-79   4-12-79
 
Penalty, see § 72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   DISCARDED ITEMS
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   LITTERING
      
97.   FALSE ALARMS
      
98.   FAIR HOUSING
      
99.   NOISE POLLUTION
CHAPTER 90: DISCARDED ITEMS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Prohibitions
   
90.03   Abatement, Lien for costs
   
90.04   Confiscated property, records, disposition
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DISCARDED ITEMS."Includes but is not limited to motor vehicles, boats, and
home appliances and furniture within 1,500 feet of a property line, in a
dilapidated or apparently inoperable condition and/or left discarded on private
property for more than seven (7) consecutive days. This definition shall not
apply to a discarded item or parts thereof which is enclosed within a building
or where the discarded item or part thereof is not visible from an adjacent or
abutting property, street, road, or public park, or otherwise is totally
concealed with appropriate covering, or a discarded item which is stored or
parked in a lawful manner on private property in connection with the business
of a licensed dissembler, licensed vehicle dealer, junk yard or salvage yard,
however, this exception shall not authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provision of law other than this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-07, passed 3-12-96)
§ 90.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Discarded items on person's own property.
      (1)   The city finds that the practice of allowing discarded items to
remain on an owner's property, constitutes a detriment to the welfare and
convenience of the residents of the city. Such discarded items detract from the
appearance of the city and affect the economic development of the city.
Therefore, it is the public policy of this city to prohibit the keeping of
discarded items on private property within the limits of the city, and such
discarded items are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who knows, sees or otherwise has
knowledge that a property owner has allowed a discarded item to remain on his
property in violation of this chapter, shall issue a citation to such property
owner ordering him to appear before the district court.
   (B)   Discarding items on property of another prohibited. No person shall
place, leave, deposit or otherwise undertake to dispose of any discarded item
upon any private property or upon any public property or right-of-way in the
city. Any person whose property lies within the city and on whose property a
discarded item is disposed may file a complaint with the city police.
   (C)   Complaint investigation.
      (1)   Upon the initial receipt of a complaint, whether officer or citizen
initiated, the investigating city police officer shall make an inspection of
the specified property, from complainant's adjacent or abutting property, or a
public street, road or park. If a violation is observed, photographs shall be
taken from the officer's observation point and the officer shall make contact
with the property owner.
      (2)   The police officer shall provide the violator with a copy of the
city ordinance, explain the purpose of the ordinance, the possible penalties,
outline the corrective action that needs to be taken within the next thirty
(30) days, and issue a warning citation for the violation.
      (3)   After the thirty (30) day warning period, the officer shall revisit
the property to verify that corrective actions have been completed. If the
violations have been satisfactorily corrected, the case shall be closed. If, in
the officer's opinion, the problem has not been fully corrected but the owner
has made significant progress, the officer may extend the cleanup period
through he issuance of another thirty (30) day warning citation.
      (4)   If the re-inspection indicates to the officer that the property
owner has not acted in good faith in complying with the provisions of this
section, the officer shall issue a state citation to the property owner citing
them to district court for violation of this section.
(Ord. 1996-07, passed 3-12-96)
Penalty, see § 90.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 93
§ 90.03 ABATEMENT, LIEN FOR COSTS.
   (A)   If, after a finding by the district court that any person is in
violation of this chapter, the city, through its Mayor or his designee, shall
issue an order to the property owner to remove the discarded items as described
in this chapter from the property or premises, which are the subject of the
violation.
   (B)   The order shall allow the property owner ten (10) days to remove any
discarded items from the subject property. The ten (10) day period shall
commence with the date of mailing of the order by certified mail to the
property owner. Removal of discarded items by the property owner will be at the
property owners expense.
   (C)   After ten (10) days have expired and all discarded items have not been
removed, then in that event, the city shall have the authority to enter upon
private property of the convicted offender and remove any and all discarded
items therefrom. The cost to the city of removing the discarded items from the
private property shall be at the property owners' expense.
   (D)   Upon removal of the discarded items from the private property by the
city, the city shall cause a billing to be forwarded to the property owner to
reimburse the city for the cost of removal of the discarded items. The property
owner shall have ten (10) days to pay the billing. The ten (10) day payment
period shall commence with the date of the billing.
   (E)   If the bill is not paid within the ten (10) day period, the city may,
at its option, place a lien on the real property with the County Clerk, for the
actual cost of removal of the discarded items from the property. The lien would
bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum. The lien shall be
enforceable as a real property lien under Kentucky law, including foreclosure
for collection on the lien.
(Ord. 1996-07, passed 3-12-96)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04 CONFISCATED PROPERTY, RECORDS, DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Every discarded or abandoned item which is removed and taken into
custody under this chapter shall be logged in the city records and disposed of
in accordance with KRS 67.592.
   (B)   Abandoned vehicles shall be disposed of and the proceeds distributed
in accordance with KRS 189.751.
(Ord. 1996-07, passed 3-12-96)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100). Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense for which a citation may be issued and a fine
imposed.
(Ord. 1996-07, passed 3-12-96)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Chapter 90 of the Kenton County Code of Ordinances incorporated by
reference
§ 91.01 CHAPTER 90 OF THE KENTON COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCES INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court has determined that it is beneficial to the
residents of the county to regulate the animal population and animal
establishments within the county to ensure that animals are treated humanely,
controlled by their owners and custodians, and subject to the authority of
Animal Control.
   (B)   Having entered into an interlocal agreement with the City of
Independence and other local cities, the county has acquired the duties of
regulating animals within the City of Independence.
   (C)   Chapter 90 of the Kenton County Code of Ordinances, as amended by
Ordinance 2020-O-06, is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in
full herein.
(Ord. 2020-O-06, passed 6-22-20)
CHAPTER 92: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
92.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
92.03   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
92.04   Exempted sales and uses
   
92.05   Destruction of fireworks
   
92.06   Prohibited storage and sale
Fire Prevention
   
92.20   Blasting permit
   
92.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A) As used in this subchapter, “FIREWORKS” means any composition or device
for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion,
deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of “CONSUMER
FIREWORKS” as defined in division (B) of this section or “DISPLAY” fireworks as
defined in division (D) of this section and as set forth in the United States
Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
“FIREWORKS” does not include:
      (1) Exception number l: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2) Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3) Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, “CONSUMER FIREWORKS” means fireworks that
are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
“CONSUMER FIREWORKS” are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division
1.4G explosives by the United States Department of Transportation, and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten “stars” (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as “NOVELTIES” and “TRICK
NOISEMAKERS” and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed l00 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than l6 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in this subchapter, “DISPLAY FIREWORKS” means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as “consumer fireworks”. Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   Age requirement. No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or
sell any consumer fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under sixteen
(16) years of age.
§ 92.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent operator to be
approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be of
such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. “COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR” shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR” is also an employee
possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent display
operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This competent
display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as signed by
the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site
and at all times the display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of
the State Fire Marshal or local fire chief. All public displays that require
issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display
(adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least
15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted,
sales, possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be
lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division, “PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS”
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors. Any person remaining within
the display area shall be identified as licensed by the ATF, or an employee
thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a competent display operator.
All persons remaining within the display area shall be at least 18 years of
age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction
with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate administrative
regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the provisions of
this division. The regulations shall address the process by which permits are
issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to effectuate
this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any fireworks for permitted displays by any
resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in accordance with
regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, if
the sale is to a person holding a display permit as outlined in subsection (A)
of this section. The permit holder shall present the permit along with other
verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
92.01(B) and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.03 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
92.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.04 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theatre, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 92.05 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) of this section shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall restrict a local government from
enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
§ 92.06 PROHIBITED STORAGE AND SALE.
   (A)   The storage or sale of any fireworks is hereby prohibited in any
residential zone with the City of Independence, unless such storage or sale
existed prior to this section, in which case it may continue as a non-
conforming use.
   (B)   Further, the storage or sale of any fireworks with the City of
Independence shall be prohibited from anything other than a permanent
structure, in any commercial or business zones.
   (C)   Because of the obvious danger that fireworks pose to persons and
property, any violation of this section shall be appropriately documented by
any enforcement officer or police officer and require the immediate removal of
any fireworks from the location where the violation occurs by the offender. Any
repeat violations or failure by the offender to immediately remove the
fireworks from the location, or if the offender moves to any other location
within the city, shall cause fireworks to be confiscated and disposed of by the
city.
(Ord. 2011-O-13, passed 6-6-11)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of ''
92.02 or
92.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than
$1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose; intent
   
93.02   Application of other codes
   
93.03   Conflict with other ordinances or regulations
   
93.04   Remedies
   
93.05   Workmanship
   
93.06   Definitions
Conditions Declared a Public Nuisance
   
93.15   Public nuisance
   
93.16   Public nuisance defined
   
93.17   Maintaining a public nuisance
   
93.18   Graffiti is a public nuisance
   
93.19   Junked, wrecked vehicles, scrap/salvage materials are a public nuisance
   
93.20   Rubbish is a public nuisance
Enforcement
   
93.30   Enforcement
   
93.31   Hearing Board
   
93.32   Appeals
   
93.33   Liens
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
   Code Enforcement Board, see §§
35.70 et seq.
   Unfit dwellings and structures, see
Chapter 150
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   The City of Independence Nuisance Code (hereinafter "Code") is
designed to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by establishing
pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 what constitutes a nuisance on residential
and non-residential properties with and without structures, and prohibiting
public nuisances that substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the public or
unlawfully or substantially interfere with the use and enjoyment of private or
public property, and fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators, and
occupants of all residential and non-residential structures, and premises.
   (B)   This Code shall be construed liberally and justly to insure public
health, safety, and welfare insofar as the public is effected by the continued
use and maintenance of structures and premises in violation of this chapter.
However, the provisions of this Code shall not be construed to prevent the
enforcement of other applicable ordinances or regulations. The provisions of
KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 shall apply to the processes and procedures for
enforcement of this Code.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.02 APPLICATION OF OTHER CODES.
   Any repairs, alterations, or changes to a structure, which are caused
directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this Code, shall be done in
accordance with the procedures and provisions of any other existing codes used
and enforced by the city/Unincorporated Kenton County, including but not
limited to the adopted Property Maintenance Code, the Kentucky Building Code,
Fire Code, and Electrical Code.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.03 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES OR REGULATIONS.
   In any case where a provision of this Code is found to be in conflict with
any existing code, ordinance, or regulation of the city/Unincorporated Kenton
County, the provision that establishes the highest standard shall apply, so
long as the penalty for violation of that provision is civil in nature. If the
penalty of the provision establishing the highest standard is not civil in
nature, then this Code shall be the prevailing authority, with the exception of
the Kentucky Building Code, Fire Code, and Electrical Code, which shall control
over conflicting city/Unincorporated Kenton County ordinances.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.04 REMEDIES.
   The provisions of this Code shall not be construed to abolish or impair
existing or other remedies of the city/Unincorporated Kenton County or its
officers or agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any buildings
that are dangerous, unsafe, or unsanitary.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.05 WORKMANSHIP.
   All repairs, maintenance, alterations, or installations that are required
for compliance with this Code shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike
manner.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this Code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning of the word being
defined:
   “ABANDON.” To give up or relinquish one's interest or right in property.
   “ABATEMENT COSTS.” A city's/Unincorporated Kenton County's necessary and
reasonable costs for and associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized
entry to, or demolishing all or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking
any other action with regard to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a
violation and to maintain and preserve the public health, safety and welfare in
accordance with any city/Unincorporated Kenton County ordinance.
   “AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER.” Any aerosol container, regardless of the material
from which it is made, that is adopted or made for the purpose of spraying
paint capable of defacing property.
   “ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE.” Shall have the same meaning provided therefor in KRS
189.010. which is a motor vehicle is used for recreational off-road use.
   “ALTER” or “ALTERATION.” Any change or modification in the construction or
occupancy of a building or structure.
   “ANYBODY.” Any human being, or any organization or combination thereof, in
the form of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint
venture, unincorporated association or otherwise.
   “APPROVED.” Approved by the Chairman of the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board, or any of his or her assistants, staff, employees, or
assigns.
   “AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR.” A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
   “BANNER SIGN.” Any commercial sign composed of any pliable plastic or cloth,
without a rigid supporting frame.
   “BASEMENT.” A portion of a building or structure located partly underground,
but having less than one-half (½) of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below
the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   “BUILDING.” Any structure, constructed on, below, or above ground, for the
support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of
any kind. The term building shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or
any part thereof."
   “BUILDING CODE.” The most recent Kentucky Building Code as adopted by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in 815 KAR 7:120.
   “CART.” Any cart, wagon, or similar device, regardless of means of
propulsion, made of wire, metal, wood or other material, such as is generally
provided by merchants for carting or carrying merchandise or food stuffs from
said merchants' store or buildings to automobiles or other places without said
merchants' building or store.
   “CITY.” The City of Independence, Kenton, Kentucky, including any
departments, divisions, boards, or agencies thereof.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.” An administrative body created and acting under
the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801
to 65.8839, created by an interlocal agreement between this city/Unincorporated
Kenton County and other cities together with the County Fiscal Court.
   “CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.” As defined in KRS 65.8801 et seq. and any
employee of Planning and Development Services of Kenton County charged with the
enforcement of this Code as a code enforcement/citation officer, exclusive of
clerical and administrative staff, as well as police and fire safety officers.
   “CONTROL.” To exercise restraint or direction over.
   “DELIVER.” Any manner of delivery that conforms to the federal and state
constitutional requirements for procedural due process.
   “DISORDERLY MANNER.” Any manner that unreasonably causes inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm to any member of the public or anybody using any other lot
or parcel of real estate within or outside of the city/Unincorporated Kenton
County, or wantonly creates a risk thereof.
   “DWELLING.” Any building that is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating by human occupants, whether or
not such building is occupied or vacant, provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling. The term dwelling
shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or any part thereof."
   “DWELLING UNIT.” Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating, whether or not such unit is
occupied or vacant. The term dwelling unit shall be construed as if followed by
the words, "or any part thereof."
   “ELECTRICAL CODE.” The Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by the city/
Unincorporated Kenton County in §
150.01  of the city/Unincorporated Kenton County Code of Ordinances.
   “EVERYBODY.” Every human being and every organization or combination
thereof. In the form of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
joint venture, unincorporated association or otherwise.
   “FINAL ORDER.” Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven (7) days as provided in this chapter; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in this chapter.
   “FIRE CODE.” The Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by the city/
Unincorporated Kenton County in §
150.01  of the city/Unincorporated Kenton County Code of Ordinances.
   “FOWL.” Any hen, rooster, chicken, duck, turkey, pheasant or any of several
other, usually gallinaceous birds.
   “GARBAGE.” The organic, animal, and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food or food products. Other
general organic materials such as paper and cardboard are also garbage.
   “GRAFFITI.” Any inscription, drawing or design that is scratched, painted,
sprayed or placed on any surface of any structure without the consent or
authority of the owner thereof, and which is within the view from any public
property or right of way.
   “HEARING BOARD.” The Kenton County Code Enforcement Board as established by
ordinance and empowered to conduct hearings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839.
   “IMMINENT DANGER.” A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   “INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.” A motor vehicle that is: unlicensed as required
by KRS 186.020; is in a state of disrepair, caused by wreckage to the vehicle
or disassembly; mechanically inoperable; or legally inoperable on public
streets and highways.
   “LIVESTOCK.” Animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine,
camelide and cervid species, including, without limitation, horses, cattle,
sheep, swine and goats.
   “LOCAL GOVERNMENT.” The City of Independence, Kenton, Kentucky.
   “MARKER PEN.” Any indelible marker or similar implement with a writing tip
exceeding four (4) millimeters in width that contains solution that cannot be
removed with water after it dries.
   “NUISANCE CODE.” This ordinance adopted by the city/Unincorporated Kenton
County pursuant to KRS 65.8801 et seq. and incorporated herein by reference the
provisions of the International Property Maintenance Code, published by the
International Code Council Inc. as amended from time to time and all amendments
are hereby incorporated by reference into this Code as if fully set forth
herein.
   “OCCUPANT.” Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, or portion of a
building.
   “OPERATOR.” Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   “ORDINANCE.” An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city/
Unincorporated Kenton County legislative body and the Fiscal Court which
embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   “ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW.” A sight line within normal visual range by a person
on a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
   “OVERGROWN GRASS.” Any grass, weeds or vegetation in excess of eight (8)
inches in length, except in agricultural zones.
   “OWNER.” The holder of the title in fee simple and any person, group of
persons, company, association, or corporation in whose name tax bills on the
property are submitted. Owner also means a person, association, corporation,
partnership, or other legal entity having a legal or equitable title in real
property. It shall also mean any person who, alone or jointly or severally with
others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, as owner,
executor, executrix, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate of the
owner, mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, lessee, or other
person, firm, or corporation in control of a building, or their duly authorized
agents. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner. It
is his or her responsibility to notify the actual owner of the reported
infractions of these regulations pertaining to the property.
   “PARTS CAR.” An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of automobiles.
   “PERSON.” Any individual, firm, corporation, limited Liability company,
association, or partnership.
   “PLUMBING.” The practice, materials, and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances, and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage or
storm draining facilities, the venting system, and the public or private water
supply systems, within or adjacent to any building, structure, or conveyance;
also the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension, or alteration of storm water, liquid waste, or sewerage, and water-
supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public
disposal or other acceptable terminal.
   “PREMISES.” A lot, plot, or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon.
   “PUBLIC AREA.” Unoccupied open space that is not privately owned, including
but not limited to publicly owned property, sidewalks, streets, and rights-of-
way.
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” Has the same meaning provided for them in KRS
227.550(12).
   “REQUIRED.” Required by some provision of this code or other law or
regulation adopted by the city/Unincorporated Kenton County.
   “RUBBISH.” Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage.
The term shall include but not be limited to abandoned, discarded, or unused
objects placed outside of a structure, such as furniture, stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, washers, dryers, clothes, food, cans, containers,
paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, synthetic
materials, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metal, mineral matter,
glass crockery and dust. The term shall also include the residue from the
burning of wood, coal, coke, synthetic material, or other combustible material.
   “STAGNANT WATER.” A body of water without wind, waves, fish, or frogs,
including but not limited to stagnant water in natural ponds, ornamental ponds,
old tires, poorly maintained pools, rain barrels, clogged gutters, and other
places where standing water may collect.
   “STAIRWAY.” One (1) or more flight of stairs and the necessary landings and
platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted passage from
one (1) story to another in a building or structure.
   “STRUCTURE.” An edifice, cellar, building of any kind, or any piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner. The term structure shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or
any part thereof."
   “YARD.” An open unoccupied space on the same lot with building extending
along the entire length of a street, or rear or interior lot line. This term
also applies to an adjoining unoccupied parcel or lot that is used by a
principal occupied lot as a yard.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
CONDITIONS DECLARED A PUBLIC NUISANCE
§ 93.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   No person shall act, fail to act, behave, erect, contrive, cause, continue,
maintain in any manner, or permit to exist any public nuisance within the city/
Unincorporated Kenton County. Repeated violation of the terms of the
International Property Maintenance code, as amended, shall constitute a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.16 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   The following acts, action, inaction, omissions, behavior, or conditions
shall constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   Any act, thing, occupation, condition, use of property, non-use of
property, misuse of property that continues for a length of time so as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life, peaceful
uninterrupted existence, or in the use of their property;
      (3)   Offend the public morals or decency;
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way, including but not limited to sidewalks.
   (B)   To allow any physical condition, use, or occupancy of any premises or
its appurtenances be an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, standing pools of water or liquid,
basements, excavations, retaining walls, and unsafe fences, accessible to
children or other persons, on the premises. No person shall abandon or leave
unattended in any place accessible to children any refrigerator, freezer ice
chest, ice box, or similar airtight box or container, which has a locking
device inoperable from within, without first unhinging and removing the door or
lid thereof or detaching the locking device from the door or lid. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prohibit the normal use of any refrigerator,
ice box, freezer, or similar appliance for the storage of food in any home or
buildings appurtenant thereto.
   (C)   For any premises to have unsanitary, defective, or insufficient
sewerage or plumbing facilities.
   (D)   To keep or maintain any premises designated by a Code Enforcement
Officer as unsafe or unfit for human habitation.
   (E)   For any premises to present an imminent fire hazard, be in imminent
danger of collapse, or to be unsafe or unsecure so as to endanger life, limb,
or property.
   (F)   (1)   For any premises to lack electrical service, plumbing, heating,
and/or other equipment required by this Code, the Property Maintenance Code,
state statute or any other ordinance of the city/Unincorporated Kenton County.
      (2)   If the utility providing natural gas service to a furnace, water
heater, or other equipment determines that the equipment is defective, the
utility shall cite or "red tag" the defective equipment and notify the Code
Enforcement Officer of such citation. Any equipment so cited by a utility
company as defective will be deemed a public nuisance.
   (G)   For any structure or building to be in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration, or decay, or be a product of faulty construction.
   (H)   For any structure or building to be vacant or abandoned and open or
accessible to vagrants or passersby, or damaged by fire so as to not provide
shelter.
   (I)   To allow any rubbish to remain on any premises.
   (J)   To allow any premises or structure to pollute any public well or
cistern, stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, creamery, or
industrial wastes or other polluting substances.
   (K)   To allow any premises or structure within the city/Unincorporated
Kenton County, to emit or cause any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous,
noxious, or disagreeable odors, effluvia or stenches repulsive to the physical
senses of ordinary persons, or that annoy, cause discomfort, or injure the
health of any appreciable number of persons within the city/Unincorporated
Kenton County.
   (L)   Harboring or keeping any animal of the dog kind which by loud and
frequent or habitual barking, howling, or yelping, shall cause serious
annoyance or disturbance to adjacent residents in the neighborhood.
   (M)   The keeping of fowl within the city, in which the keeping is in
violation of Ordinance No. 2015-O-03.
   (N)   Emission of noxious odors or smoke into the surrounding atmosphere of
dust, smoke, or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical occupation
of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible.
   (O)   Emission of noise or sounds which is noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwellings or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering
with the ordinary comforts of human existence.
   (P)   Storage of explosives or combustible material. The storage of
combustible or explosive material which creates a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity.
   (Q)   Any tree, stack of wood or trees, or other object standing in such a
condition that it will, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger the
life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or
property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent thereto, by the
falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (R)   The operation of any ATV within the city:
      (1)   On any day, before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m., prevailing time,
except:
         (a)   The otherwise lawful operation of an ATV during a legal hunting
season when the ATV is actually being utilized to assist the person hunting; or
         (b)   The otherwise lawful operation of an ATV when the ATV is being
used to assist in an emergency agricultural use. An emergency agricultural use
shall be defined as a situation which, if not addressed immediately, will
likely result in the significant loss of property or an imminent threat to the
safety of livestock and/or people. In this situation, the user is expected to
expeditiously complete the minimum work necessary to correct the emergency
situation and, if necessary, return to complete full repairs between 8:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Without the muffler system provided by the manufacturer, without
any modification thereof other than like kind parts replacement, and which
prevents the emission of sound from the ATV in excess of the levels identified
in 40 CFR 205.166 for motorcycles; or
      (3)   At any speed in excess of the minimum speed required to maintain
the forward motion of the ATV while it is within one hundred fifty (150) feet
of any dwelling on a lot or parcel of real estate other than that upon which
the ATV is being operated.
   (S)   Any fire, other than that of candles, torches and grills, that is
outside of any building of any material other than paper, wood, charcoal,
propane or natural gas.
   (T)   To allow any motor vehicle to be parked on an unpaved (concrete or
blacktop) surface, unless a legal nonconforming use pursuant to law.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.17 MAINTAINING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It shall be a public nuisance and a violation of this Code, to keep,
maintain, or own a dangerous building within the city/Unincorporated Kenton
County. A dangerous building is defined as any of the following:
   (A)   (1)   A building whose interior or exterior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity falls outside the middle third of its
base:
      (2)   A building, exclusive of the foundation, that shows thirty-three
percent (33%) or more damage or deterioration to its supporting members, or
fifty percent (50%) or more damage or deterioration to its non-supporting
members, or to the enclosing or outside walls or coverings;
      (3)   A building having improperly distributed loads on the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe to occupants or the public;
      (4)   A building damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to cause
the building to become dangerous to life, limb, or property of the occupants or
to the public;
      (5)   A building that has become or is so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary, or which so utterly fails to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that it is unfit for human habitation, or is likely to cause
sickness or disease or injury to health, safety, or general welfare of those
living therein;
      (6)   A building having light, air, and sanitation facilities that are
inadequate to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings
who live or may live therein; or
      (7)   A building having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire
or panic or having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other
means of travel;
      (8)   A building that has parts or elements that are attached or not
attached in such a way that they may fall and cause injury to persons or
property;
      (9)   A building that is missing or has nonfunctioning smoke detectors or
similar detection devices in violation of the Fire Code; or
      (10)   A building with openings where a door, window or other
architectural feature, or parts thereof, should be located.
   (B)   Every person owning or having control of a building shall not allow
unsecure openings where a door, window or other architectural feature should be
located.
      (1)   The city/Unincorporated Kenton County shall be authorized to abate
the nuisance of an unsecured opening, and may effectuate securing the opening
pursuant to the applicable code upon recommendation of a Code Enforcement
Official.
      (2)   The nuisance of opening where a door, window or other architectural
feature should be located may be securely boarded by using a minimum of three-
eights (3/8)-inch plywood or other similar material in a manner that will
secure the building from intrusion.
      (3)   Any board placed on a building shall be painted a color that is
consistent with the color of the structure or be painted black, and shall be
cut to fit the opening.
   (C)   Every person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the procedures set forth in the code.
   (D)   Keeping, maintaining, or owning a dangerous building is a public
nuisance and shall constitute a violation of this Code, subject to the remedies
set forth in KRS 381.770, as well as this Code.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.18 GRAFFITI IS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Graffiti is prohibited and deemed to be a public nuisance. It shall be
unlawful to spray, draw, etch, carve or otherwise create graffiti on any
building or structure in the city/Unincorporated Kenton County. If a private
property owner fails to abate a graffiti nuisance violation after notice is
given by the Code Enforcement Officer, the city/Unincorporated Kenton County
may abate the graffiti and place a lien for the cost of abatement against the
real property of the owner of said premises, building, or structure.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.19 JUNKED, WRECKED VEHICLES, SCRAP/SALVAGE MATERIALS ARE A PUBLIC
NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful to allow junked or wrecked vehicles, machines, scrap,
salvage materials, mobile or manufactured homes to exist on real property in
the city/Unincorporated Kenton County not within a duly licensed salvage yard
pursuant to KRS 177.910 to 177.950. Furthermore:
   (A)   No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or
stored on any occupied or unoccupied premises and no vehicle shall at any time
be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted
inside an approved spray booth. Except as provided in division (D), it shall be
unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any
land within the city/Unincorporated Kenton County to permit a public nuisance,
health hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon through the accumulation
of:
      (1)   One (1) or more junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines
or other similar scrap or salvage materials, excluding non-operative farm
equipment; or
      (2)   One (1) or more mobile or manufactured homes, as defined in KRS
227.550, that are junked, wrecked, or non-operative and are not inhabited.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or non-operative automobiles, vehicles, machines
or other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of
a licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the provisions of KRS
190.010(8);
      (2)   Junked, wrecked or non-operative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private real property by automobile collectors, whether as a
hobby or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery or other
means; and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.011 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed or leased by a motor carrier.
      (4)   A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   (C)   The city/Unincorporated Kenton County may take action to abate the
nuisances referenced in this section by giving notice to the property owner of
the nuisance pursuant to the procedures set forth in the Code. The city/
Unincorporated Kenton County itself may abate or remove a nuisance referenced
under this section if the property owner fails to do so after notice is given
regarding the nuisance. The city/Unincorporated Kenton County shall have a lien
against the property for the reasonable value of labor and material used in
remedying the nuisance including but not limited to the cost of towing,
holding, storage and disposal. An affidavit of a Code Enforcement Officer shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of
the proceedings pursuant to this section and it shall be recorded in the office
of the city/Unincorporated Kenton County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all
persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school board, and the city/Unincorporated Kenton County
taxes, and may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
   (D)   In addition to the remedies prescribed above or any other remedy
authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached
pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien
and the city/Unincorporated Kenton County may bring a civil action against the
owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt
owned.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.20 RUBBISH IS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant person or corporation
controlling or managing land in the city/Unincorporated Kenton County to permit
a nuisance thereon through the accumulation of rubbish or excessive growth of
weeds, grass and similar items. Any officer designated by the city/
Unincorporated Kenton County legislative body may give five (5) days written
notice to remedy such situation and said notice shall be hand-delivered and/or
mailed by regular mail to the last known address of the owner of said property
to comply, the city/Unincorporated Kenton County Clerk is authorized to send
employees of the city/Unincorporated Kenton County upon the property to remedy
the situation.
   (B)   The city/Unincorporated Kenton County shall have a lien against said
property for the reasonable value of labor and materials used in remedying such
situation, such labor shall be calculated at an hourly rate of seventy-five
dollars ($75) per hour. The affidavit of the city/Unincorporated Kenton County
Clerk shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the
regularity of the proceedings pursuant to said statute and shall be recorded in
the office of the County Clerk in the county where such city/Unincorporated
Kenton County is located. Said lien shall be notice to all persons from the
time of its recording and shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%)
per annum.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.30 ENFORCEMENT.
   The powers and duties of the Kenton County Code Enforcement Board or any
person that they may be designated by the city to enforce the provisions of
this chapter shall include but not be limited to the following all pursuant to
KRS 65.8801 thru 65.8839.
   (A)   To conduct surveys and make inspections in any area of the city to
determine compliance with this chapter or other ordinances he or she is
empowered to enforce.
   (B)   To investigate all complaints made about buildings, structures, vacant
lots, or other premises within the city, whether they be verbal, written, or in
the form of a petition, alleging or charging that a violation of this chapter
exists or that a dwelling, structure, or building is unfit or unsafe for human
habitation or other occupancy.
   (C)   In support of police or fire authority to inspect, survey, or
investigate any building, structure, dwelling, or premises between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists or if requested
by the owner or occupant. A Code Enforcement Officer may enter a building,
structure, dwelling, or premises to inspect, survey, or investigate with the
consent of the owner or occupant, in emergency situations, or when an
inspection, survey, or investigation is required before a permit is issued or
funding is provided by the county or is part of a licensing scheme adopted by
the county. If an owner or occupant refuses to consent to entry or inspection
of a building, structure, dwelling, or premises, a Code Enforcement Officer may
obtain a search warrant for this purpose from a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. In addition, a Code Enforcement Officer may obtain a search
warrant to inspect several buildings or structures in a particular area as part
of an area inspection policy promulgated by the city. Probable cause to issue a
search warrant may be based upon the passage of time, the nature of the
building (e.g., a multi-family apartment house), the condition of the entire
area, or other reasonable legislative or administrative standards adopted by
the county. Probable cause does not need to depend upon specific knowledge of a
condition existing in a particular dwelling. A Code Enforcement Officer
conducting an inspection pursuant to this chapter shall provide identification
and statement of purpose before entering any building, structure, dwelling, or
premises and the person in possession or in charge of the building, structure,
dwelling, or premises shall give the Joint Code Enforcement Board and his or
her assistants, staff, or employees free access to such property for the
purposes set forth herein.
   (D)   To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and
receive evidence.
   (E)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this Code.
   (F)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this Code and
other ordinances to such officers, agents, and employees as he or she
designates.
   (G)   To seek through the appropriate judicial officer or office, such
warrants that are necessary to enforce the provisions of this Code and in
pursuit of said warrants, make such oath or affirmation necessary in support
thereof.
   (H)   To keep records of all complaints received, inspection reports,
orders, and of other actions taken. The records shall be made available for
public inspection upon request within a reasonable amount of time. The Joint
Code Enforcement Board shall prepare an annual report including statistics
based on the records kept.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.31 HEARING BOARD.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall act as the hearing
board for the enforcement of this chapter. Authorized personnel of Planning and
Development Services of Kenton County and city police and fire officials shall
act as the enforcement authority for the provisions of this chapter. A Code
Enforcement Officer, in order to facilitate inspection of premises reasonably
suspected of being in violation of this chapter, may obtain an administrative
search warrant upon presentation of an appropriate affidavit to a Kenton County
District or Circuit Judge. The affidavit and search warrant shall be in
substantial conformity to the formats attached hereto as exhibits A and B to
Ord. 2016-O-12.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.32 APPEALS.
   An appeal from any final order issued by the hearing board may be made to
the Kenton District Court within thirty (30) days after the date when the order
is issued by the Board. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the Board's order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure. The appeal shall be de novo
as determined by case law precedent. If no appeal from a final order of the
Board is filed within the time period set forth in this section, the Board's
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.33 LIENS.
   The city shall possess a lien on real property owned by the person found by
a final order of the Hearing Board, or by final judgment of a court, to have
committed a violation of this chapter in the amount of all fines assessed for
the violation, for all charges, fees, and abatement costs incurred by the city
in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, and bear interest until
paid. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other liens on
the property, except state, county, school board, and city taxes. A person
found to have committed a violation of this chapter shall be personally liable
for the amount of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to violations of the chapter:
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50)
per day per violation but not more than five hundred dollars ($500) per day per
violation, or the cost to the city to abate the public nuisance, or both. Each
day that a violation of this chapter continues after due notice has been served
in accordance with the terms of this chapter may be deemed a separate offense
to a maximum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) per citation.
   (B)   As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any violator
who violates any provision of the chapter and has been previously issued two
(2) or more citations for violation of this nuisance ordinance relating to the
same property within a twelve (12)-month period may be assessed additional
civil penalties of five hundred dollars ($500) per day per violation to a
maximum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) per citation.
(Ord. 2016-O-12, passed 11-14-16)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Operating bicycles, motorcycles on recreation fields
   
94.02   Closing time for parks
   
94.03   Ballfield permits
   
94.04   Parking regulations; restrictions
   
94.05   Reservation of shelter areas
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 OPERATING BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES ON RECREATION FIELDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorized bicycle,
motorcycle, mini-bike, trail-bike, motorized vehicle of any type or similar
vehicles including what is commonly referred to as all-terrain vehicles on any
ballfield or recreation field maintained and/or operated by the city without
special permission by the mayor and/or the police department of the city. This
shall not prohibit the riding of such a vehicle to the recreation area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate such vehicles on any
property which has been posted to warn or keep out trespassers.
(Ord. 2-4-76, passed 4-8-76; Am. Ord. 1990-0-16, passed 10-9-90)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.02 CLOSING TIME FOR PARKS.
   All city parks, recreational areas, and ballfields in the city shall be
closed at dark except areas lighted specifically for basketball, pickleball and
city sponsored events.
(Ord. 3-5-80, passed 5-22-80; Am. Ord. 2023-O-04, passed 2-6-23)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.03 BALLFIELD PERMITS.
   The ballfield permit application and the rules and regulations contained
therein and the criteria for granting ballfield permits are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1996-0-5, passed 3-12-96)
§ 94.04 PARKING REGULATIONS; RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or entity, to park or leave any vehicle
or other thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance, in any area
designated as a City Park, or parking facility thereof, unless;
   (A)   The person or entity is lawfully utilizing the park, or park
facilities;
   (B)   It is between one half (1/2) hour before sunrise and one half (1/2)
hour after sunset;
   (C)   The vehicle or other thing is parked as directed by, and in accordance
with, posted signage and markings; and
   (D)   The vehicle or other thing is also in compliance with all other city
ordinances and state statutes.
(Ord. 1997-0-02, passed 1-28-97)
Penalty, see § 94.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 93
§ 94.05 RESERVATION OF SHELTER AREAS.
   Shelters in the public parks of the city may be reserved on a fist come
basis, during the hours after 9:00 A.M. and before sunset on any day during the
months of April, May, June, July, August, September and October, by completing
a reservation form, and paying the following sums to the city:
   (A)   A non-refundable rental fee for the various city parks shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Sterling Staggs Park: thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per shelter;
      (2)   Memorial Park: fifty dollars ($50.00).
   Reserving a date for a special event requires the payment of a one- hundred
dollar ($100.00) non-refundable permit fee, plus a refundable deposit of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per one hundred (100) expected guests. The refundable deposit
will be returned in full if the area is left in good or better condition than
before use. A “SPECIAL EVENT” is defined as a non-profit event that requires
additional space for tents or other apparatus, and the use of large areas of
the park, or that requires early acknowledgment for advance planning, such as
weddings. Special events reservations may be made up to one year in advance.
   (B)   The rental/reservation agreement that is attached hereto and made a
part hereof, together with all its terms and conditions, shall be utilized and
executed by each and every person or entity renting and/or reserving a city
park, and a copy of same shall be in the possession of the person or entity
while utilizing the park.
(Ord. 1998-0-05, passed 5-22-98; Am. Ord. 2004-O-06, passed 4-5-04)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone convicted of violating §
94.01 shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 2-4-76, passed 4-8-76)
   (B)   Anyone found guilty of violating §
94.02 shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 3-5-80, passed 5-22-80)
   (C)   Anyone who violates the provisions of §
94.04 shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
(Ord. 1997-0-02, passed 1-28-97)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
95.01   Permit required; fee
   
95.02   Restoration of pavement
   
95.03   Barriers around excavations
   
95.04   Warning lights
   
95.05   Sidewalk construction
   
95.06   Written approval required prior to alteration
Road and Bridge Projects
   
95.15   Public meeting required
   
95.16   Notice requirements
   
95.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
95.18   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
95.19   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
95.20   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
95.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
95.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
95.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
95.33   Removal of ice and snow
   
95.34   Substances or debris prohibited on street or right-of-way
Restrictions
   
95.50   Pneumatic tires
 
   
95.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 95.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to make any
excavation on any portions of a right-of-way, street, alley, or private
property within the city for the purpose of installing a utility meter or
service line or any other type of excavation, without first having obtained
from the Building Inspector a permit for the same. The permit issued by the
Building Inspector shall designate the exact location of the proposed
installation and shall be issued after an actual physical survey by the
Building Inspector has been made.
   (B)   Any unusual condition of the street or other right-of-way shall be
noted on the permit so that after the construction is completed and final
inspection is made by the Building Inspector as to restoration, a record of
prior condition shall have been established.
   (C)   The fee to be charged by the city for such excavations shall be
payable to the City Treasurer for administration of this section.
(Ord. 4-1-68, passed - - )
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.02 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the Building Inspector
and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications approved by the
legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration. The amount of such services performed
by the city shall be collected from the permittee.
§ 95.03 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.04 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.05 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector or authorized
representative to supervise construction or repair of sidewalks within the
city.
   (B)   A temporary waiver or permanent waiver of the provisions that require
the construction of sidewalks may be obtained from the city provided that the
Building Inspector, Zoning Administrator, and City Administrator find, and
report to the city:
         (1)   That unusual topographical or exceptional physical conditions
exist; or
         (2)   That strict compliance with the regulation would create an
extraordinary hardship in the face of the exceptional conditions; or
         (3)   The waiver would provide for innovative design layout of the
subdivision or lot in question; or
         (4)   Strict compliance with the regulation would cause a safety
concern.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of any temporary waiver hereunder, and in
addition to the provisions hereinabove, the property owner shall execute a lien
against the property in question, in favor of the city, to be recorded in the
County Clerk’s, to ensure that construction will be completed at a later date
should the city later deem construction necessary due to a change in
circumstances under which the waiver was granted. No lien will be required if a
permanent waiver is granted.
         (1)   The lien should be in an amount, as deemed appropriate by the
Building Inspector, after consultation with the City Engineer, together with
interest thereon at the rate of three (3) percent per annum, to cover the cost
of the construction of the sidewalk in question in the future.
         (2)   The lien provided for herein shall be released upon:
               (a)   Satisfactory completion of construction of the sidewalk in
question;
               (b)   Payment of the lien amount to the city.
   (D)   The city may subordinate any lien recorded hereunder to any mortgage
lien holder, provided that there is sufficient equity to cover both liens in
the event of foreclosure.
   (E)   All existing sidewalks within the City of Independence, and those
hereafter constructed within the City of Independence, shall be, and shall
hereafter become, the sole responsibility of the property owner upon which such
sidewalks are located or constructed. This responsibility shall include, but
not be limited to, repairs, maintenance, and replacement. Nothing herein shall
abrogate the property owner’s rights to seek redress from any person or entity
causing damage to the sidewalks.
      (1)   If the city is made aware of a sidewalk that is in ill repair as
deemed by staff, the owner shall be given notification via certified mail to
repair/replace the sidewalk within 30 days or the city or its representative
shall make the needed repairs. The owner shall have 30 days to pay the balance
or a lien will be placed on the property in question in a value that is
reasonable to the value of labor and materials used to remedy the situation.
The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk in the county
where such city is located. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the
time of its recording and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
Repairs shall be made with similar, grade, texture and material and be
inspected by a representative of the city.
(Ord. 2004-O-01, passed 1-5-04; Am. Ord. 2011-O-03, passed 1-10-11; Am. Ord.
2013-O-11, passed 9-9-13)
§ 95.06 WRITTEN APPROVAL REQUIRED PRIOR TO ALTERATION.
   Any person, business, corporation, partnership, or other entity shall obtain
written approval from the city prior to any excavating, digging, cutting,
repairing, or alterations of any kind within, on, under, over or through any
city street, curb, sidewalk or other city owned right of way. The written
approval, if granted, shall be obtained from the Building Inspector, who shall
consult with the City Engineer.
(Ord. 1997-0-1, passed 1-14-97)
Penalty, see § 95.99
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 95.15 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 95.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 95.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the meeting, the city shall allow any person to speak with regard
to any proposed project, any project that he or she feels should be built or
done that has not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any
other matter related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100 (1), (2))
§ 95.18 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided in this
subchapter has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 95.19 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
§ 95.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 95.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see § 95.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 96
§ 95.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.34 SUBSTANCES OR DEBRIS PROHIBITED ON STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or entity to directly or
indirectly deposit mud, soil, sand, gravel, or other such substances or debris
on city streets or right of ways, with or without the use of vehicular or
mobile equipment, with out the express written consent of the city or its duly
authorized representative.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or entity to grade or disturb the
soil in any area of the city in such a manner as to cause or allow mud or soil
to wash or otherwise be moved from the graded or disturbed area and deposited
onto a city street or right-of-way.
   (C)   Surface water drainage regulated.
      (1)   Nobody shall cause, permit, allow, aid, assist, encourage, promote
or engage in the installation, construction, maintenance, operation or use of
an unnatural drain, pipe or other conduit of rain water, surface water or
ground water, unless every point of drainage onto the surface of the ground is:
         (a)   Within the same lot or parcel of real estate from which the rain
water, ground water or surface water is collected; and at least five feet from
the nearest boundary line of the lot or parcel and;
         (b)   At a point which does not drain towards any public street,
unless every point of drainage is as far away as possible from any public
street, and at least twenty (20) feet from the nearest edge of any curb or
pavement within the street right-of-way.
      (2)   Building drains. Roof downspouts, footings and foundation drains
shall be discharged onto the same parcel of land from which the water is
generated. Roof downspouts shall be piped to natural drainage areas away from
the street or onto concrete splash blocks, which direct water areas. All sump
pump, subsurface drains shall be constructed toward the rear of the lot.
Downspouts constructed toward the street shall be discharged on the surface as
far back onto the lot as possible in accordance with §
150.15. No roof subsurface drains shall be connected through the curb or into
the gutter section of any public street, unless approved by this department.
      (3)   Existing drains allowed; regulations. Any unnatural pipe, drain or
other conduit of rain water, surface or ground water, in existence on the
effective date of this subchapter, and which drains through a curb and directly
onto any public street pavement, may be continued only in conformity with the
following requirements met:
         (1)   The section from the back of the curb to right-of- way shall be
piped with four inch non-perforated Polyvinyl Chloride pipe (ASTM D3033, D3034,
SDR-35) or four (4)inch non-perforated ductile iron pipe (ANST A21-51. Class
50).
         (2) A curb length of one (1) inch each side of the pipe level with the
gutter face shall be cut and removed. The pipe end shall be placed in the
section of the removed curb and mitered to approximately conform to the gutter
face.
   (D)   Sediment control.
      (1)   Silt fence is required in the front of the home at the low drainage
points of the yard as directed by swales after the foundation has been
backfilled.
      (2)   Silt fence is still required to be installed across the rear of a
lot at the low drainage point at the time of excavation.
      (3)   All concrete wash-out areas must be surrounded by silt fence or
other approved barrier.
      (4)   In areas with sediment ponds that are designed to be used as
retention ponds for storm water, no control measures are needed over the grate
and inlets. However, the developer will be responsible for making sure the
sediment pond is properly dredged and maintained.
      (5)   If a storm drain does not drain directly into a retention pond or
soil basin the soil control measures must be placed over the grates and cleaned
regularly.
      (6)   Temporary driveway. All residential lots shall have a single point
access and a temporary driveway of crushed stone with fabric placed in the
location of the permanent driveway. The temporary driveway shall be constructed
after completion of foundation. It shall be a minimum of three (3) inches in
depth with a separation fabric and a minimum of ten (10) feet in width. All
construction traffic to the site must utilize the temporary driveway and shall
not drive on any other portion of the lot without prior approval of the city/
county inspector.
      (7)   All building material scraps, drink cans, snack wrappers, and any
other waste material from any jobsite in the city must be disposed of daily and
secured in a dumpster, pick-up truck or other appropriate container.
      (8)   It shall be up to the builder to tell his suppliers and subs that
they are responsible for keeping mud off of the streets. Additionally,
suppliers and subs have to be told to avoid damaging the silt fence and erosion
control measures. Trucks that are caught blatantly leaving mud and debris on
the streets outside of the developing community will be ticketed.
      (9)   It is suggested that builders include an addendum in their
contracts, for the new buyer to sign, or some other form of written
communication, to remind them that they are buying a home in a newly developing
neighborhood and that some mud and dirt on the streets can be expected on a
temporary basis until the neighborhood is completed.
   (E)   Any person, persons, or entities found to be in violation of divisions
(A) through (D) of this section shall be issued a written notice from the city,
or its duly authorized representative ordering;
      (1)   Cleaning of the street or right-of-way, by pressure wash if deemed
necessary by such representative; and/or
      (2)   A stop work order until the road or right of way has been cleaned
to the satisfaction of the city's representative. Any notice given under this
section shall allow four hours for compliance, from the time such notice is
given. Failure to comply within the four (4) hours shall constitute a violation
of this section and a complaint may be filed.
      (3)   The notice in this section shall be sufficient if conspicuously
posted on the property.
   (F)   At the expiration of the four (4) hours allowed for compliance in
division (E), the city may remove or clean the mud, soil, sand, gravel, or
other debris from the city street or right of way, or correct any other
violation hereunder. Any such removal, correction, or cleaning by the city
under this section shall be at the expense of the violating person or entity.
The city shall issue a bill for the actual cost incurred in the clean-up,
correction, or removal. This bill must be paid in full within ten days of the
date of issue. Failure to pay this bill shall result in the city having a lien
on the land from which the mud, soil, sand, gravel or other substance or debris
was caused to be deposited from.
(Ord. 1997-0-6, passed 4-22-97; Am. Ord. 2005-O-10, passed 5-2-05; Am. Ord.
2007-O-24, passed 11-5-07)
Penalty, see § 95.99
RESTRICTIONS
§ 95.50 PNEUMATIC TIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or entity, to directly or
indirectly operate, drive, park, load or unload any vehicle or equipment on or
about a city street, pavement, curb, sidewalk, or other city right-of-way when
the vehicle or equipment is equipped with anything other than pneumatic tires
where the vehicle or equipment comes in contact with the ground, street,
pavement, curb, sidewalk, or other city right-of-way. This includes vehicles
and equipment with pneumatic tires where other non-pneumatic parts of the
vehicle or equipment may come in contact with the ground, street, pavement,
curb, sidewalk, or other city right-of-way.
   (B)   Should it become evident to the Building Inspector, City
Administrator, or other citation authority of the city, that damage has been
done to any city street, curb, pavement, sidewalk, or other city right-of-way
in conjunction with any construction, maintenance, or repairs on any property
located within the city, in addition to the penalties outlined in §
95.99, no further permits or certificates, of any nature, shall be issued to
the owner of such property, or the owner and/or operator of the equipment,
unless and until the damage has been repaired to the Building Inspector’s, City
Administrator’s, or the other citation authorities satisfaction, and paid for
by the property owner, or the operator/owner of the equipment doing the damage.
   (C)   Should any property owner, operator, or equipment owner, as provided
in division (B), fail to make the necessary repairs as indicated pursuant to
division (B) within a reasonable time, the Building Inspector, or his or her
designee, shall have the right to revoke or suspend any previously issued
permit or certificate for the construction, maintenance, or repairs that were
being conducted on the property.
(Ord. 1997-0-10, passed 5-27-97; Am. Ord. 2003-O-19, passed 11-3-03)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Any person, business, corporation, partnership, or other entity who
violates the provisions of §
95.06 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) but
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each conviction. Each day the
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 1997-0-1, passed 1-14-97)
   (C)   Any person, persons, or entities found to be violating or who have
violated §
95.34 shall be fined five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that a violation
occurs or continues to occur shall be considered a separate and distinct
violation subject to a separate and distinct fine.
   (D)   Any person, persons, or entities found to be violating or having
violated the provisions of §
95.50 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that a
violation occurs or continues to occur shall be considered a separate and
distinct violation subject to a separate and distinct fine.
(Ord. 1997-0-10, passed 5-27-97; Am. Ord. 2005-O-10, passed 5-2-05; Am. Ord.
2007-O-24, passed 11-5-07)
CHAPTER 96: LITTERING
Section
   
96.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
96.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
96.03   Hauling loose material
   
96.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
96.05   Litter on private property
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 97: FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
97.01   Charge for false alarms
   
97.02   City Clerk to bill offending party
§ 97.01 CHARGE FOR FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in (B) below, there is hereby established a charge
of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each false alarm drop made to the Police
Department for response.
   (B)   There shall be no charge made for the first two false alarms each
month. There is excluded from this charge those instances of acts of God, over
which the alarm companies have no control.
(Ord. 1994-0-22, passed 9-13-94)
§ 97.02 CITY CLERK TO BILL OFFENDING PARTY.
   The Chief of Police shall certify such excessive false alarms to the City
Clerk who shall bill the offending party. In case the company or responsible
party controlling the alarm system fails to pay the charge, the company or
responsible party shall be charged for each alarm call until the bill is paid.
(Ord. 1994-0-22, passed 9-13-94)
CHAPTER 98: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
98.01   Policy
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Unlawful practice
   
98.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
98.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
98.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
98.07   Exemption
   
98.08   Administration
   
98.09   Education; conciliation
   
98.10   Enforcement
   
98.11   Investigations; subpoena; giving of evidence
   
98.12   Interference; coercion; intimidation
   
98.13   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   "DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE." An act that is unlawful under §§
98.04,
98.05 or
98.06.
   "DWELLING." Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   "FAMILY." Includes a single individual.
   "PERSON." Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   "TO RENT."Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of subsection (B) herein and §
98.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in this section shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection (B).
   (B)   Nothing in §
98.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in the
house at the time of the sale or who was not the most recent resident of the
house prior to the sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall apply
only with respect to one sale within any twenty-four (24) month period;
provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family houses at any
one time; provided further, that the sale or rental of the single-family house
shall be exempted from the application of this title only if the house is sold
or rented (a) without the use in any manner of the sale or rental facilities or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson, or person and (b) without the publication, posting or mailing,
after notice of any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
98.04(C) of this chapter but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title, or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of subsection (B) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He/she has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated
as principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of
any dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (2)   He/she has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated
as agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing
sales or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (3)   He/she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by or occupied by, five (5) or more families.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
98.03 and except as exempted by §
98.03(B) and §
98.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or disability status.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or disability status.
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status or disability
status, or an intention to make any such precedence, limitation or
discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or disability status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other person or of
any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other financial
assistance or the purposes of the loan or other financial assistance, or of the
present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling
or dwellings in relation to which the loan or other financial assistance is to
be made or given; provided, that nothing contained in this section shall impair
the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
98.03(B).
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him the terms or conditions of
such access, membership or participation, on account of race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, familial statues or disability status.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, form limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provided lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this act shall be
in the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties, and powers to
the Kentucky State Human Rights Commission or to a designated employee of the
city, including functions, duties and powers with respect to investigation,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
Mayor shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the decisions of his
hearing examiners o others hearing examiners or to the Kentucky State Human
Rights Commission, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Mayor to further such purposes.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.09 EDUCATION; CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter the Mayor shall commence
such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of
this chapter and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor to
work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the Mayor or their designated city
employee. Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information and
be in such form, as the Mayor requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Mayor shall furnish a copy of the same both to the Kentucky Civil Rights
Commission and to the person or persons who allegedly committed or was about to
commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. The Mayor will request
assistance from the Kentucky Civil Rights Commission in resolving this
complaint either through informal endeavors or through procedures,
conciliation, agreement and/or enforcement per Section 344.200 through 344.290
of the Kentucky Revised Statutes. The Mayor shall act as a facilitator and will
assist (when requested and/or where appropriate) the Kentucky Civil Rights
Commission in resolving the complaint. Nothing said or done in the course of
informal endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent
proceeding under this chapter without the written consent of the persons
concerned.
   (B)   A complaint under subsection (A) shall be filed with the Kentucky
Human Rights Commission within one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and
shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing
practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts
upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based.
Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may
file an answer to the complaint against him and with the leave of the Kentucky
Human Rights Commission, which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable
and fair to do so, may amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and
answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the
Kentucky Human Rights Commission, the Kentucky Human Rights Commission has been
unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the person aggrieved
may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, file a complaint with the Secretary of
the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Kentucky Human Rights
Commission will assist in the filing.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENA; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation the Kentucky Human Rights Commission
shall have access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents,
individuals and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine,
record and copy such materials and take and report the testimony or statements
of such person as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the
investigation per KRS 344.200 – 344.290; provided however, that the Kentucky
Human Rights Commission first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Kentucky Human
Rights Commission may issue subpoenas to compel his access to the production of
such materials, or the appearance of such persons, any may issue
interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and subject to the same
limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or
served in aid of a civil action in the United States district court for the
district in which the investigation is taking place.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify
or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other
evidence, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the Kentucky Human Rights Commission shall be subject to the penalties
set forth in §
71.99.
      (2)   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Kentucky Human
Rights Commission, shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement
of fact in any report, account, record, or other document submitted to the
Kentucky Human Rights Commission pursuant to his subpoena or other order, or
shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true and
correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or other documents, or shall
willfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means falsity any documentary
evidence, shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
71.99.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.12 INTERFERENCE; COERCION INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
98.03,
98.04,
98.05, or
98.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.13 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
familial status or disability status, and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the
sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is nor has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status or disability status in any of
the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in subsection
(A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any employee of the mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of §
98.10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more
than one (1) year.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
98.11(B)(1) and (2) shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisoned not more than one (1) year, or both.
(Ord. 2000-0-05, passed 4-3-00)
CHAPTER 99: NOISE POLLUTION
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Unlawful conduct
   
99.03   Standards for noise pollution
   
99.04   Exemptions
   
99.05   Enforcement
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   “BONA FIDE.” Made in good faith, without fraud or deceit, a state of mind
consisting in:
      (1)   Honesty in belief or purpose;
      (2)   Faithfulness to one's duty or obligation;
      (3)   Observance of reasonable commercial standards of fair dealing in a
given trade or business; or
      (4)   Absence of intent to defraud or to seek unconscionable advantage.
   “CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION ACTIVITY.” The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, structure or roadway, or any
utility related construction, for which all necessary and proper governmental
permits have been obtained.
   “HIGHWAY.” Any road, street, avenue, alley, boulevard, lane, court, bridge,
viaduct, or trestle, and the approaches to them.
   “NOISE.” The intensity, frequency, duration, and character of sound or
sounds from a source or sources.
   “PARKING LOT.” Any off-street parking facility for public use, and the
approaches to same, whether publicly or privately owned, and shall include, but
not be limited to: parks, shopping centers, restaurants, entertainment centers,
taverns, car washes, banking or financial institutions, whether publicly or
privately owned, operated or controlled.
   “PERSON.” Any person, firm association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or any private entity of any nature.
   “PLAINLY AUDIBLE.” Capable of being distinctly heard by a person with normal
hearing.
   “ROADWAY.” That portion of the highway designed for ordinary use for
vehicular travel, including the berm, shoulder or any public property adjacent
thereto.
   “UNREASONABLE PERIOD OF TIME.” A period of time in excess of that necessary
to accomplish:
      (1)   A danger warning with a horn or other audible signaling device; or
      (2)   The preservation or protection of property or the life, safety or
welfare of a person or persons by use of an audible signaling device.
   “UNREASONABLY LOUD, HARSH, OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.” Any noise plainly audible at
a distance of 50 feet from its point of origination or emanation.
   “VEHICLE.” Any machine or device in, on, or by which, any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn on any highway, roadway or parking lot.
(Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 11-12-18)
§ 99.02 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to make, continue,
or cause to be made or continued, any excessive, loud, unnecessary, or unusual
noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of others unless the making and continuing of the
noise is necessary for the protection or preservation of property or the life,
health, or safety of a person or persons.
   (B)   The following acts are hereby declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but the enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or other such audible signaling device on
any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any highway, roadway, parking
lot or other public place, except as a danger warning, for an unreasonable
period of time;
      (2)   The use or operation of any radio, stereo, or other machine or
device for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound in any vehicle
in such a manner as to create an unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise,
that disturbs the peace, quiet, or comfort of others;
      (3)   The use or operation of, or allowing the use or operation of, any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the
peace, quiet, and comfort of others by creating or allowing a louder volume
than is necessary for the convenient hearing of the person or persons who are
voluntarily in the room, chamber, or vehicle in which any above described
machine, device, or musical instrument between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., Sunday through Thursday, and 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m on Friday and
Saturday, in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet
from the building, structure, or vehicle in which it is located, shall be a
prima facia evidence of a violation of this section;
      (4)   Use or operation of any vehicle on any highway, roadway, or parking
lot in such a manner as to produce any unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive
noise, or to discharge into the open air the exhaust of any vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (5)   Creation of any unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise in
connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle, or by the operation of
any such vehicle;
      (6)   Use of any mechanical loud speaker, amplifier, sound system,
stereo, or radio on any moving or standing vehicle for advertising,
entertainment or any other purpose, in such a manner as to create an
unreasonable loud, harsh, or excessive noise.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause fireworks to be set off
or to allow fireworks to be set off on property in which said person has an
interest either by ownership or rental between the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 8:00
a.m. Sunday through Thursday or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
Friday and Saturday. New Year's Eve and the Fourth of July shall be exceptions
to the previously enumerated restrictions, whereby fireworks shall be allowed
on July 4 between 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., and, shall be allowed from 11:00
p.m. December 31 through 12:30 a.m. on January 1.
(Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 11-12-18)
§ 99.03 STANDARDS FOR NOISE POLLUTION.
   The standards which shall be considered in determining whether a violation
of this chapter exists shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   The volume of the noise;
   (B)   The intensity of the noise;
   (C)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
   (D)   The volume and intensity of background noise, if any;
   (E)   The proximity of the noise to a residential area or place of public
accommodation such as a hotel, motel, inn, campground and the like;
   (F)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
   (G)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
   (H)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
   (I)   The duration of the noise; and
   (J)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
(Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 11-12-18)
§ 99.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from this chapter:
   (A)   Noises originating or emanating from safety signals, warning devices
and emergency pressure relief valves;
   (B)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle or law
enforcement training facilities;
   (C)   The operation of any aircraft in conformity with, or pursuant to,
Federal law, federal air regulations and/or air traffic control instructions;
   (D)   Noises emanating or originating from pubic recreational facilities for
city events;
   (E)   Noises originating or emanating from bona fide recreational
facilities, bona fide civic organizations, bona fide charitable organizations,
or bona fide religious organizations and religious organization festivals prior
to 11:30 p.m. on Friday, Saturday, or Sunday prior to a national holiday.
   (F)   Bona fide school sponsored events.
(Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 11-12-18)
§ 99.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any individual who hears “NOISE” as defined in this chapter may report said
violation to the Independence Police Department.
(Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 11-12-18)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation found violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 2018-O-15, passed 11-12-18)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   PAWNBROKERS
      
114.   BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
      
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED AND ADULT BUSINESSES
      
116.   ALCOHOL SALES
      
117.   OFF-SITE VEHICULAR SALES AND DISPLAY EVENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
Business Regulations
   
110.10   Requirements
   
110.11   Prohibitions
   
110.12   Form and content of annual business regulatory license and application
   
110.13   Application process
   
110.14   Appeals
   
110.15   Expiration date
   
110.16   Kenton County Fiscal Court
Business Taxation
   
110.25   Levy and imposition
   
110.26   Rate
   
110.27   Apportionment of gross receipts
   
110.28   Exemptions
   
110.29   Administrative provisions
   
110.30   Purpose of occupation license fee
   
110.31   Collection
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used herein, the following words and phrases have the meanings indicated:
   “ANYBODY.” Any human being, and any combination thereof, in the form of
partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association, or
otherwise.
   “APPLICABLE LAWS.” The constitutions, statutes, ordinances, rules,
regulations and other laws of the United States, Commonwealth of Kentucky,
County of Kenton and any other governmental entity or agency having
jurisdiction.
   “BUSINESS.” Any and all franchises, trades, occupations, professions or
other businesses within the meaning and context of KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and
Section 181 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   “BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE.” A license required by the city, pursuant to
the police power thereof, for the purpose of regulating business activities and
operations within the city.
   “BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.” A fee required by the city for each
business regulatory license, pursuant to KRS 82.082 and the police power
thereof, to provide the funds necessary to pay the expenses of regulating
business activities and operations within the city, including, without
limitation, the expense of issuing business regulatory licenses.
   “CITY.” The City of Independence, in Kenton County, Kentucky.
   “NOBODY.” Not anybody, or no human being, or any combination thereof, in the
form of a partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association,
or otherwise.
   “OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.” A tax for revenue, pursuant to the taxing
authority of the city, including, without limitation, the authority therefore
established by KRS 82.082, KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and Section 181 of the
Kentucky Constitution, wherein it is sometimes identified and referred to as a
power to impose and collect license fees on stock used for breeding purposes,
on franchises, trades, occupations and professions.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to both regulate and tax those engaged in
franchises, trades, occupations, professions and other businesses.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
§ 110.10 REQUIREMENTS.
   Everybody who is engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business in the city, other than those who are only so engaged as
employees, shall obtain an annual business regulatory license for that
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business; and pay to the city
a business regulatory license fee in the amount of either fifty dollars
($50.00) or that part of a multi-jurisdictional occupational permit fee,
collected by Kenton County and proportionally allocated to the city, pursuant
to the provisions of an inter-local agreement between the city and the county
and some other cities therein, for a single multi-jurisdictional annual
occupational permit fee of two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225.00), which the
Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.11 PROHIBITIONS.
   Nobody, other than those who are only engaged as employees in the city,
shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage
in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business in the city
for which the annual business regulatory license required hereby has not been
issued.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.12 FORM AND CONTENT OF ANNUAL BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE AND
APPLICATION.
   The form and content of the annual business regulatory license required by
this chapter and the application for it shall be determined by the City Clerk;
provided, however, that the application shall include:
   (A)   Sufficient information for the identification of the persons involved
in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business;
   (B)   The computation of the annual Occupational License Fee imposed by this
chapter;
   (C)   Sufficient information and inspection authorization for a
determination by the city of compliance by the licensee with all applicable
laws;
   (D)   The name in which the business will be conducted; the address of the
real estate upon which the business will be conducted, and the mailing address
of the business if different from the location; and the business telephone
number and the state tax identification numbers of the business.
   (E)   The name, address, date of birth and Social Security number of each
owner of the business and each partner, officer or director, if any.
   (F)   The name, residence address and telephone number of a duly authorized
representative of the business who is responsible for operating and managing
the business in the city, and a night emergency number at which some
responsible representative of the business can be reached in case of an
emergency.
   (G)   A full description of the business operations to be conducted.
   (H)   The date on which the business began or will begin operations in the
city.
   (I)   The accounting period of the business.
   (J)   The number of employees working or expected to be working for the
business in the city during the license year.
   (K)   A statement describing the circumstances of each denial, suspension or
revocation of any Business Regulatory License for any person named or
identified in the application.
   (L)   A statement describing the circumstances of each conviction of any
person named or identified in the application of a felony, misdemeanor for
which imprisonment or other confinement was a possible penalty, any other crime
in which moral turpitude was involved, or any other crime directly related to a
business similar to that which is the subject of the application.
   (M)   A statement as to whether any license, permit, degree, certification
or similar document is required by any applicable law for the conduct or
employment in the business.
   (N)   A statement as to whether there are hazardous material kept at the
business premises and the location thereof, and whether there are pets, guard
dogs or other animals usually kept therein and any other information which the
applicant believes would be necessary or helpful to emergency personnel
responding to a call to said premises.
   (O)   The gross receipts and hereinafter described property factor, sales
factor, and payroll factor of the business for the previous calendar year.
   (P)   Such additional information that the City Clerk determines to be
reasonably necessary.
   (Q)   A warning in the following or similar language:
“WARNING: Statements in this application shall be made under oath, by
affirmation or any other legally authorized manner of attesting to the truth of
such statements, with the signatures notarized, according to law; and any false
statements made herein shall be punishable according to law; and may be cause
for denial of the application or the revocation of any Business Regulatory
License issued pursuant thereto.”
   (R)   Information incorporated by reference. All information from any
previous application for an annual Business Regulatory License required by this
chapter, which continues to be accurate, may be incorporated by reference into
subsequent annual applications for the same license by the same applicant.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.13 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Signature to application. Each application for an annual Business
Regulatory License required by this chapter shall be signed by the applicant or
an authorized representative of the applicant, who shall attest to the truth of
the statements therein, with knowledge that any false statements constitute
perjury, for which the signatory may be prosecuted and punished according to
law; and such signatures shall be notarized according to law.
   (B)   Payment of fees. Each application for an annual Business Regulatory
License required by this chapter shall be presented to the City Clerk/Tax
Collector, or any designee thereof, along with both the Business Regulatory
License fee and any occupational license fee that is due from the applicant No
application for a business regulatory license shall be accepted or received by
the City Clerk without payment of the Business Regulatory License fee and any
Occupational License Fee due from the applicant.
   (C)   Review of applications. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter that is received and accepted by
the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall be immediately referred to the Mayor, who
shall review it according to the following standards within 30 days after the
receipt and acceptance thereof by the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
      (1)   When the applicant, or employees of the applicant, are required to
have any license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document
pursuant to the provision of any applicable law for the conduct of or
employment in the business which is the subject of the application; the
license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document shall have
been duly issued to the applicant or employees of the applicant prior to the
issuance of the business regulatory license. Documentary evidence of the
issuance satisfactory to the City Clerk shall be provided by the applicant.
      (2)   The criminal record of the persons named or identified in the
application shall be considered to the extent such record includes conviction
of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or other confinement was a
possible penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude was involved; or any
other crime which was directly related to a business of the type which is the
subject of the application. In determining if a conviction was directly related
to a business, the City Clerk shall consider:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person was
convicted.
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purpose of the regulation
of the business.
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
         (d)   The extent to which the person convicted has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall consider whether the business is of a type
that the operation, unless closely supervised, has a probability of generating
or resulting in criminal activity or adversely affecting the health, safety,
morals and welfare of occupants or residents of adjoining property, the
citizens and residents of the city, or will constitute a nuisance.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall consider the business history of the applicant
including:
         (a)   Whether the persons named and identified in the application have
been denied or had suspended or revoked a similar license by the city or any
other city, county or state and the reasons therefore.
         (b)   Whether complaints have been received by the city about the
business practices or responsibility of the persons named and identified in the
application, and the disposition of those complaints.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall consider whether the persons named and
identified in the application are indebted to the city for delinquent taxes,
assessments, fines or similar obligations.
      (6)   The City Clerk shall consider whether the business and the proposed
location complies with all applicable laws, including, without limitation, land
subdivision and use, zoning, building construction and maintenance, and fire
prevention and life safety regulations.
      (7)   After review of the application in conformity with this chapter,
the City Clerk shall notify the City Clerk/Tax Collector, or any designee
thereof, of either:
      (8)   The approval of the application.
      (9)   The approval of the application conditionally; but if the
application is approved conditionally, the City Clerk shall determine and
require those conditions that are reasonably necessary to accomplish the intent
of this chapter, including, without limitation:
         (a)   A requirement that the applicant post bond with surety
acceptable to the City Clerk in a reasonable amount determined by the City
Clerk to ensure compliance.
         (b)   A requirement that a debt to the city be paid before a specified
date.
         (c)   A requirement that the applicant permit periodic inspection of
certain parts of the premises or of certain records.
         (d)   A requirement that certain alterations be made in the premises
before a specified date.
      (10)   The disapproval the application.
   (D)   Notice to the applicant. Unless the City Clerk/Tax Collector receives
a written notice from the City Clerk, within thirty (30) days after an
application for a Business Regulatory License required by this chapter has been
referred to the City Clerk for review pursuant to division (C), that the
application was either conditionally approved or disapproved, the City Clerk/
Tax Collector, or the designee thereof shall issue the Business Regulatory
License that is the subject of the application and mail it to the applicant at
the address indicated in the application; and, thereafter, the applicant may
engage in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business
described in the application, but only at the address thereof indicated in the
application, until that business regulatory license expires or is suspended or
revoked according to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Conditional approval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/
Tax Collector receives a written notice from the City Clerk, within thirty (30)
days after an application for a Business Regulatory License required by this
chapter has been referred to the City Clerk for review pursuant to division
(C), that the application was conditionally approved, the City Clerk/Tax
Collector shall notify the applicant thereof and the reasons therefore
identified by the City Clerk, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the address of the applicant indicated in the application, along with a notice
that the license will be issued by the City Clerk/Tax Collector only upon
receipt by the City Clerk/Tax Collector of a written signed acceptance by the
applicant of the conditions to be performed prior to the issuance of the
license. The notice shall also state that if the acceptance is not received by
the City Clerk/Tax Collector within such time, the application will thereby be
disapproved.
   (F)   Disapproval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/Tax
Collector receives a written notice from the City Clerk, within 30 days after
an application for a Business Regulatory License required by this chapter has
been referred to the City Clerk for review pursuant to division (C), that the
application was disapproved by the City Clerk, the City Clerk/Tax Collector
shall notify the applicant of that denial and the reasons therefore identified
by the City Clerk, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address
of the applicant indicated in the application, with a refund of any anticipated
City Occupational License Fee paid with the application, and a notice of the
procedure established in this chapter for an appeal from the denial of that
application.
   (G)   Business regulatory license revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Any Business Regulatory License required by this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the City Clerk for any period of time determined by the
City Clerk to be reasonable and appropriate for any of the following reasons;
but only after a due process evidentiary hearing in regard thereto, for which a
notice has been sent to the licensee at the address indicated in the licensee's
application, by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten days
prior to the hearing:
      (2)   Any false or intentionally misleading statement or information
provided in the license application.
      (3)   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the conditions
of a conditional license.
      (4)   The criminal conviction of any person named or identified in the
license application of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or any
other confinement is a possible penalty, any other crime in which moral
turpitude is involved, or any other crime which directly relates to a business
of the type for which the license was issued. However, the consideration of
such a criminal conviction shall include:
         (a)   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person was
convicted.
         (b)   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of the regulation
of the business.
         (c)   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
         (d)   The extent to which the person has been successfully
rehabilitated.
      (5)   The revocation, suspension or expiration without renewal of any
license, permit, degree, certification or similar document which is required by
any applicable law for the conduct of or employment in the business for which
the license was issued.
      (6)   The violation of any applicable law in the conduct of the business
by any person engaged therein.
      (7)   Violations of applicable laws by any person within the business
premises of the licensee, or under the control thereof.
      (8)   The revocation or suspension of a Business Regulatory License
pursuant to ordinance shall be in addition to the imposition of any other
penalty prescribed by ordinance or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.14 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any conditional approval or disapproval of an application for a
business regulatory license required by this chapter, or any suspension or
revocation of any such license may be appealed to the Mayor of the city, by
filing with the City Clerk/Tax Collector, within 30 days after the conditional
approval, disapproval, revocation or suspension:
   (B)   A written notice of the appeal;
   (C)   A copy of the conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or
suspension that is the subject of the appeal;
   (D)   A statement why there should be an approval without conditions, or no
disapproval, revocation or suspension;
   (E)   An appeal fee in the sum of two hundred dollars ($200), to provide for
the expenses of conducting a due process hearing in regard thereto.
   (F)   In such an appeal, a de novo due process hearing in regard to the
suspension or revocation shall be conducted by the Mayor, or by a hearing
officer appointed by the Mayor, who shall file a record with the Mayor, with a
written recommendation regarding findings of fact, conclusions of law and a
decision based thereon. Within ninety (90) days after the date the appeal was
filed, the Mayor shall issue a written decision in regard thereto, including
findings of fact, conclusions of law and a decision based upon a record of the
due process hearing; and the appellant shall be notified thereof by certified
mail, return receipt requested, at the address thereof indicated in the
application for the license. Unless an appeal from the decision of the Mayor is
filed in the court having jurisdiction thereof within thirty (30) days after
the decision of the Mayor, the decision of the Mayor shall become final.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.15 EXPIRATION DATE.
   Unless an earlier expiration date is provided therein, all Business
Regulatory Licenses required hereby shall expire at midnight on the 15th day of
the fourth month after the end of the fiscal year of the licensee.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.16 KENTON COUNTY FISCAL COURT.
   The executive authority of the city may contract with the Fiscal Court of
Kenton County, Kentucky, for the performance of the duties imposed by this
chapter on the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
BUSINESS TAXATION
§ 110.25 LEVY AND IMPOSITION.
   For the purpose of providing funds for the general operating expenses of the
city and the municipal services and functions provided thereby, and subject to
the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.795, and except as provided in §
110.12, an Occupational License Fee is hereby levied and imposed upon everybody
engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other businesses in
the city, for the privilege of that engagement.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.26 RATE.
   The occupational license fee that is levied and imposed by this chapter is
at the rate of:
   (A)   Employees: 1.25% of all compensation earned by an employee for labor,
work or services provided in the city.
   (B)   Those not employees: 0.075% of the taxable gross receipts of
everybody, other than employees, who is engaged in any franchise, trade,
occupation, profession or other business in the city.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.27 APPORTIONMENT OF GROSS RECEIPTS.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 67.753(4), it is hereby determined that the
apportionment provisions of KRS 67.753 do not fairly represent the extent of
the engagement in the city of those, other than employees, who are engaged in
any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business both within and
outside of the city; and, accordingly, the following described property factor
is hereby added to the payroll factor and the sales factor provided in KRS
67.753 for the apportionment of the gross receipts of those, other than
employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business both within and outside of the city.
   (A)   The property factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
average value of the taxpayers real and tangible personal property owned or
rented and used in the city during the computation period, and the denominator
of which is the average value of all of the taxpayer's real and tangible
personal property owned or rented and used anywhere during the computation
period. In the determination of the property factor:
      (1)   Property owned by the taxpayer is valued at its original cost.
Property rented by the taxpayer is valued at eight (8) times the net annual
rental rate which is the annual rental rate paid by the taxpayer less any
annual rental rate received by the taxpayer from sub-rentals.
      (2)   The average value of property shall be determined by averaging the
values at the beginning and ending of the computation period, but the City
Clerk may require the averaging of monthly values during the computation period
if reasonably required to reflect properly the average value of the taxpayer's
property.
   (B)   The proportion of the total gross receipts everywhere of those, other
than employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession
or other business both within and outside of the city that are subject to the
Occupational License Fee established by this chapter, shall be determined by
multiplying the total gross receipts thereof everywhere by the quotient of the
total of the payroll factor and the sales factor described in KRS67.753 (2) and
(3), and the property factor described in the previous division (A), that the
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the City
during the tax period, divided by the total number of those factors that the
franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the city
during the tax period. The total number of those factors that the franchise,
trade, occupation, profession or other business had in the city during the tax
period will always be either 1, 2 or 3. For example, if the franchise, trade,
occupation, profession or other business:
      (1)   Had only the sales revenue factor in the city, during the tax
period, without either the property factor or the payroll factor in the city,
the total number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business had in the City during the tax period would be 1;
or
      (2)   Had both the sales revenue factor and the payroll factor in the
city, during the tax period, without the property factor in the city, the total
number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business had in the City during the tax period would be 2; or
      (3)   Had the sales revenue factor, and the payroll factor, and the
property factor in the city, during the tax period, the total number of those
factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had
in the city during the tax period would be 3.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.28 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following franchises, trades, occupations, professions and other
businesses are exempted from the occupational license fee levied and imposed in
this chapter:
   (A)   The employment of domestic servants in private homes.
   (B)   Organizations that have been determined to be exempt from federal
income taxation pursuant to Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954, as amended.
   (C)   Owners of their principal and primary residence, who let or lease no
more than one separate residential unit in that principal and primary
residence.
   (D)   Any and all vendors participating in the seasonal farmers market
within the City of Independence.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08; Am. Ord. 2011-O-12, passed 6-6-11)
§ 110.29 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
City Clerk, who is hereby authorized to promulgate any additional regulations
in regard thereto which are not inconsistent with any state statute, or any
ordinance of the city, or any executive order of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.30 PURPOSE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   The purpose of the business regulatory license fees and the occupational
license fees imposed and levied by this chapter is to fund the general
operating expenses of the city, including, without limitation, police, fire,
emergency medical, public works and administrative services.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.31 COLLECTION.
   The business regulatory license fees and occupational license fees imposed
and levied by this chapter shall be received and collected by the City Clerk/
Tax Collector or by the Fiscal Court of Kenton County, Kentucky, with which the
executive authority of the city is hereby authorized to contract for those
services.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Civil penalties. Each separate violation of this chapter is hereby
classified as a civil offense, for which:
      (1)   The maximum civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(b) that may be
imposed for each separate violation of this chapter, is hereby established as
five hundred dollars ($500); and
      (2)   The specific civil fine required by KRS 65.8808(2)(c) that will be
imposed for each separate offense and violation of this chapter if the person
who has committed the violation and offense does not contest a citation
therefore, is hereby established as one hundred dollars ($100);
      (3)   An enforcement officer may, in lieu of immediately issuing a civil
citation, give notice that the violation of this chapter shall be remedied
within a specific period of time.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Each violation of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor for which everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to exceed the
maximum amount of five hundred dollars ($500) as set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(a)
or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of twelve (12)
months as set forth in KRS 532.090 (1), or both.
(Ord. 2008-O-13, passed 12-1-08)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Carnivals and Circuses
   
111.01   Permit required
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, group, or organization to conduct
carnivals, circus rides, and similar activities without obtaining a permit from
the city. The person obtaining the permit, which shall be without charge, shall
be responsible for seeing that all litter, debris, paper, garbage, and the like
is cleaned up from the premises at the end of the event.
(Ord. 3-10-77, passed 10-13-77)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Anyone violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500, and each day shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-10-77, passed 10-13-77)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application procedure
   
112.04   Standards for issuance
   
112.05   Revocation procedure
   
112.06   Standards for revocation
   
112.07   Appeal procedure
   
112.08   Exhibition of identification
   
112.09   House-to-house soliciting
   
112.10   Zero knock list; registration; availability of information on list
   
112.11   Prohibited home solicitation acts and practices
   
112.12   Claims alleging unsolicited home visits or calls made to persons on
zero knock list; defenses
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “BUSINESS.” The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   “GOODS.” Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   “HOUSE-TO-HOUSE SOLICITATION.” House-to-house soliciting, selling, vending,
peddling or canvassing.
   “ITINERANT MERCHANT.” Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   “PEDDLER.”
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city. A person who is a
peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   “PERSON.” Every natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association,
corporation, or self-employed person, firm, corporation, or other business
entity without employees.
   “SOLICITOR.” Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   Non-profit organizations and political candidates are exempt from any
license requirements and are never considered itinerant merchants, peddlers, or
solicitors.
   (C)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body but shall initially be fifty dollars ($50)
for the initial application and twenty-five dollars ($25) for each agent of the
initial applicant.
   (D)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (E)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire ninety (90) days
after the date of issuance thereof.
   (F)   All licenses shall be displayed in the form of an identification
badge, created by the city, which shall be worn at all times in a conspicuous
manner, and identifiable to each resident.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant shall be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
      (3)   The local address of such individual;
      (4)   The permanent address of such individual;
      (5)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (6)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (7)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (8)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivered;
      (9)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
      (10)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or grown,
and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (11)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the
business;
      (12)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2) above or the person identified division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
      (13)   Proof of a valid driver's license.
      (14)   Proof of a valid Kenton County occupational license.
      (15)   Passport styled colored headshot photo.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses shall be needed to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
asked for under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant:
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its license plate number.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten (10) days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the City Clerk will run a background
check and verify the legitimacy of the business.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a major misdemeanor or felony;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
112.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any major misdemeanor; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §
112.04 or §
112.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within fourteen (14) days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body
shall set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall
be given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
112.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license and Identification Badge to each
peddler or solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license and
Identification Badge shall contain the words "Licensed Peddler" or "Licensed
Solicitor." the expiration date of the license, and the number of the license.
The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is engaged
in the business licensed. The Identification Badge shall be conspicuously worn
while the peddler or solicitor is going door to door.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.09 HOUSE-TO-HOUSE SOLICITING.
   (A)   All person(s) engaging in house-to-house solicitations within the city
shall first apply with the city prior to engaging in house to house
solicitations within the city. A person or business may apply on an annual
basis.
   (B)   No person shall engage in house-to-house solicitations in the city
outside the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. or after sunset, whichever is
earlier, Monday through Saturday.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or unlicensed,
while conducting the business of a peddler or solicitor to enter upon any
residential premises in the city where the owner, occupant, or person legally
in charge of the premises has clearly posted a "No Trespassing or No
Solicitation" sign and/or who is identified on the city's "Zero Knock List" and
that list was made available to applicant prior to their application.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.10 ZERO KNOCK LIST; REGISTRATION; AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION ON LIST.
   (A)   Any person may apply to the City Clerk in order to have his or her
residential address listed on the zero knock list, which shall be maintained by
the City Clerk.
   (B)   The City Clerk may update the information on the list, but shall not
remove the information unless requested to do so in writing by the applicant,
or upon receiving notice that the given residential address is no longer held
in the name of the applicant.
   (C)   Persons whose residential address appears on the zero knock list shall
not receive home solicitation except in accordance with the provisions herein.
   (D)   Information contained in a data base established for the purpose of
administering a zero knock list shall be used only for the purpose of
implementing the zero knock program in conformance herein.
   (E)   The zero knock list shall be available at no cost to any person, firm,
corporation or other entity that is required to consult the list.
      (1)   The person, firm, corporation or other entity requesting the list
shall maintain the confidentiality of the information on the list.
      (2)   The person, firm, corporation or other entity shall use the list
only for the purpose of preventing home solicitation sales to persons whose
residential address appears on the list.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.11 PROHIBITED HOME SOLICITATION ACTS AND PRACTICES.
   (A)   Any person, company, firm, corporation, or other entity is prohibited
from making or causing to be made any unsolicited visit or call upon any
residence in the city to peddle, sell, vend, solicit, promote, dispense,
distribute, or otherwise convey any items or merchandise or offer to do any of
the above acts at any residential address which appears in the current
publication of the zero-knock list maintained by the City Clerk. Any occupier
of a residence in the city may notify the city and be placed on its zero-knock
list, indicating the wish to not receive unsolicited home visits or calls by
notification to the City Clerk.
   (B)   The zero-knock list shall be made available upon application approval.
After each publication of the list, every person, company, firm, corporation or
other entity who wishes to visit or call upon any residence in the city to
peddle, sell, vend, solicit, promote, dispense, distribute, or otherwise convey
any items or merchandise or offer to do any of the above acts at any
residential address within the city shall be deemed to be on notice not to
solicit any person whose address appears on the list, nor to make nay
unsolicited visit or call upon any listed residence.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.12 CLAIMS ALLEGING UNSOLICITED HOME VISITS OR CALLS MADE TO PERSONS ON
ZERO KNOCK LIST; DEFENSES.
   Any claim or action alleging the making of an unsolicited home visit or call
upon a person on the zero knock list in violation of this chapter shall be made
in writing and verified by the claimant.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500). Each day's violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Persons who fail to register and/or engage in house-to-house
solicitations (§
112.09) will be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100) per occurrence.
   (C)   Any person, company, firm, corporation, or other entity including, but
not limited to, a merchant, a salesperson, agent or representative of the
merchant or salesperson, or any independent contractor, who violates §§
112.09 through
112.12 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than fifty dollars ($50) for the first offense and shall be fined not more than
one hundred dollars ($100) for any subsequent offense. Each unsolicited visit
or call upon a listed residence shall constitute a separate offense. Each day
upon which an unsolicited visit or call is made shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2017-O-07, passed 7-3-17)
CHAPTER 113: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Bond
   
113.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
113.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
113.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
113.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
113.07   Prohibited activities
   
113.08   Enforcement
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PAWNBROKER." Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 113.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter and
all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 113.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in division (a) or (b) is not
available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
of all persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold.
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any police officer
of the city when in the discharge of his or her official duty.
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
paragraph, “FULL DESCRIPTION” includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of twelve (12) days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a police officer, the police
officer shall provide to the pawnbroker a case report or other documentation
that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him,
whether by pawn or purchase, during the twenty-four (24) hours preceding each
report. The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The
Chief of Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
113.03(A) to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 90
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
113.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
113.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to
the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
CHAPTER 114: BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
114.01   Imposition of tax
   
114.02   Tax due
   
114.03   Lien
   
114.04   Use of tax
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all "financial institutions", as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 2000 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
(Ord. 2000-0-06, passed 4-3-00)
§ 114.02 TAX DUE.
   For the 2000 tax year and all subsequent years, the following timetable is
hereby established: the city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no
later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be due with a two
percent (2%) discount by December 31 of each year or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
(Ord. 2000-0-06, passed 4-3-00)
§ 114.03 LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Ord. 2000-0-06, passed 4-3-00)
§ 114.04 USE OF TAX.
   All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 2000-0-06, passed 4-3-00)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid before
January 31, for all subsequent years tax years shall be deemed delinquent and
shall be subject to a penalty of ten percent (10%) and shall bear interest at
the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum.
(Ord. 2000-0-06, passed 4-3-00)
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED AND ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Findings
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Prohibited uses
   
115.04   Permitted uses
   
115.05   Permitted zoning districts
   
115.06   Zoning permit
   
115.07   General standards
   
115.08   Individual business standards
   
115.09   Zoning Administrator review and expiration of zoning permit
   
115.10   Appeal procedures
§ 115.01 FINDINGS.
   The facts and other matters set forth in the previous clauses that form the
preamble to this chapter are hereby adopted as findings of fact in support of
the legislative action of the City of Independence in adopting this amendment
to the Zoning Ordinance. Upon adoption of this zoning amendment, these shall be
incorporated into the Zoning Code by reference as if fully set forth therein to
the adopting resolution.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CABARET OR THEATER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." A building or portion of a building
which provides or allows the provision of sexually oriented entertainment to
its customers or which holds itself out to the public as an establishment where
sexually oriented entertainment is available. Signs, advertisements or an
establishment name including verbal or pictorial allusions to sexual
stimulation or gratification or by references to "adult entertainment,"
"strippers," "showgirls," "exotic dancers," "gentleman's club," "XXX" or
similar terms, shall be considered evidence that an establishment holds itself
out to the public as an establishment where sexually oriented entertainment is
available.
   "CUSTOMER." Any person who:
      (1)   Is allowed to enter a business in return for the payment of an
admission fee or any other form of consideration or gratuity;
      (2)   Enters a business and purchases, rents, or otherwise partakes of
any material, merchandise, goods, entertainment, or other services offered
therein; or
      (3)   Enters a business other than as an employee, vendor, service
person, or delivery person.
   "DAY CARE CENTER." A licensed facility providing care, protection and
supervision for children twelve (12) years old or younger or for any individual
who is deemed mentally challenged.
   "DISPLAY PUBLICLY." The act of exposing, placing, posting, exhibiting, or in
any fashion displaying in any location, whether public or private, an item in
such a manner that it may be readily seen and its content or character
distinguished by normal unaided vision viewing it from a street, highway, or
public sidewalk, or from the property of others or from any portion of the
premises where items and material other than sexually oriented media are
offered for sale or rent to the public.
   "ENCOUNTER CENTER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." A business or enterprise that, as one
of its principal purposes, offers: physical contact between two (2) or more
persons when one (1) or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity.
   "ENTERTAINER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." Any person paid as an employee,
contractor, subcontractor, or agent of the operator of a cabaret who frequently
appears in a state of semi-nudity at any establishment regulated by this
chapter.
   "ENTERTAINMENT, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." Any of the following activities, when
performed by a sexually oriented entertainer at a sexually oriented business
that is required to be licensed: dancing, singing, talking, modeling (including
lingerie or photographic), gymnastics, acting, other forms of performing, or
individual conversations with customers for which some type of remuneration is
received.
   "ESCORT." A person who is held out to the public to be available for hire
for monetary consideration in the form of a fee, commission, or salary, and who
for said consideration consorts with or accompanies or offers to consort with
or accompany, another or others to or about social affairs, entertainments, or
places of amusement or within any place of public resort or within any private
quarters, and shall include a "service oriented escort;" for purposes of this
chapter, the term "ESCORT" shall not include any person who would be understood
by a reasonably prudent person as providing "babysitting" services or working
as an assisted living companion to the elderly, infirm, disabled, or
handicapped, and shall further not include licensed health professionals.
   "ESCORT BUREAU, SERVICE ORIENTED." An escort bureau that:
      (1)   Maintains an open office at an established place of business;
      (2)   Otherwise operates in full accordance with the countywide licensing
ordinance, Kenton County Ordinance No. 451.9 establishing licensing
requirements for sexually oriented businesses and service oriented escort
bureaus, as such ordinance may be amended from time to time.
   "ESCORT BUREAU, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." An escort bureau that operates in any of
the following manners:
      (1)   Engages in fraudulent, misleading, or deceptive advertising that is
designed to make the prospective client believe that acts of prostitution (as
defined under Kentucky law) will be provided;
      (2)   Collects money (whether paid in advance or paid after the promised
proscribed act) for the promise of acts of prostitution by its escorts;
      (3)   Uses as escorts persons known to have violated the law regarding
prostitution, and refuses to cease the use of such a person;
      (4)   Operates an escort bureau as a "call girl" prostitution operation;
      (5)   Advertises that sexual conduct will be provided to a patron or
customer, or that escorts which provide such sexual conduct will be provided,
referred, or introduced to a patron or customer;
      (6)   Solicits, offers to provide, or does provide acts of sexual conduct
to an escort patron or customer; or
      (7)   Employs or contracts with a sexually oriented escort, or refers or
provides to a patron a sexually oriented escort.
   "ESCORT, SERVICE ORIENTED." An escort that:
      (1)   Operates from an open office;
      (2)   Does not advertise that sexual conduct will be provided to the
patron or work for an escort bureau that so advertises; and
      (3)   Does not offer to provide sexual conduct.
   "ESCORT, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." An escort who:
      (1)   Works for (either as an agent, employee, or independent
contractor), or is referred to a patron by a sexually oriented escort bureau;
      (2)   Either advertises that sexual conduct will be provided, or works
for (either as an employee, agent, or independent contractor), or is referred
to a patron by an escort bureau that so advertises; or
      (3)   Offers to provide or does provide acts of sexual conduct to an
escort patron, or accepts an offer or solicitation to provide acts of sexual
conduct for a fee from an escort patron or a prospective escort patron.
   "ESTABLISHMENT." Any business regulated by this section.
   "EXPLICIT SEXUAL MATERIAL." Any pictorial or three dimensional material
depicting human masturbation, deviate sexual intercourse, sexual intercourse,
direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, sadomasochistic abuse, or
emphasizing the depiction of post-pubertal human genitals; provided, however,
that works of art or material of anthropological significance shall not be
deemed to fall within the foregoing definition.
   "FLOOR AREA, GROSS PUBLIC." The total area of the building accessible or
visible to the public, including showrooms, motion picture theaters, motion
picture arcades, service areas, behind counter areas, storage areas visible
from such other areas, restrooms (whether or not labeled "public"), areas used
for cabaret or similar shows (including stage areas), plus aisles, hallways,
and entryways serving such areas.
   "FREQUENTLY." Two (2) or more times per month.
   "MASSAGE." Touching, stroking, kneading, stretching, friction, percussion,
and vibration, and includes holding, positioning, causing movement of the soft
tissues and applying manual touch and pressure to the body (excluding an
osseous tissue manipulation or adjustment).
   "MASSAGE PARLOR." Any business offering massages that is operated by a
person who is not a state licensed "massage therapist" or that provides
massages by persons who are not state licensed massage therapists.
   "MASSAGE THERAPY." The profession in which a certified massage therapist
applies massage techniques with the intent of positively affecting the health
and well being of the client.
   "MASSAGE THERAPIST." A person licensed as a massage therapist in accordance
with the provisions of KRS 309.350 et seq.
   "MEDIA." Anything printed or written, or any picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture, film, videotape or videotape production, or pictorial
representation, or any electrical or electronic reproduction of anything that
is or may be used as a means of communication. "MEDIA" includes but shall not
necessarily be limited to books, newspapers, magazines, movies, videos, sound
recordings, CD-ROMS, DVDs, other magnetic media, and undeveloped pictures.
   "MEDIA, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." Magazines, books, videotapes, movies, slides,
CDs, DVDs or other devices used to record computer images, or other media which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
   "MEDIA STORE WITH SOME SEXUALLY ORIENTED MEDIA." A retail book, video or
other media store that has sexually explicit media that constitutes more than
ten percent (10%) but not more than forty percent (40%) of its inventory or
that occupies more than ten percent (10%) but not more than forty percent (40%)
of its gross public floor area.
   "MEDIA STORE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." An establishment that rents and/or sells
sexually oriented media, and that meets any of the following three tests:
      (1)   More than forty percent (40%) of the gross public floor area is
devoted to sexually oriented media; or
      (2)   More than forty percent (40%) of the stock in trade consists of
sexually oriented media; or
      (3)   It advertises or holds itself out in any forum as a "XXX" "adult"
or "sex" business, or otherwise as a sexually oriented business, other than
sexually oriented media outlet, sexually oriented motion picture theater, or
sexually oriented cabaret.
   "MODELING STUDIO, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." An establishment or business that
provides the services of live models modeling lingerie, bathing suits, or
similar wear to individuals, couples, or small groups in a space smaller than
six hundred (600) feet.
   "MOTEL, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." A hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment that meets any of the following criteria:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with sexually oriented entertainment or transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas;"
      (2)   Marketed as or offered as "adult," "XXX," "couples," or "sexually
oriented."
   "MOTION PICTURE ARCADE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." A building or portion of a
building wherein coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any other form of
consideration, electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   "MOTION PICTURE ARCADE BOOTH, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." Any booth, cubicle, stall,
or compartment that is designed, constructed, or used to hold or seat customers
and is used for presenting motion pictures or viewing publications by any
photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital, or other means or medium
(including, but not limited to, film, video or magnetic tape, laser disc, CD-
ROMs, books, DVDs, magazines or periodicals) to show images of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation by customers
therein. The term "booth," "arcade booth," "preview booth," and "video arcade
booth" shall be synonymous with the term "MOTION PICTURE ARCADE BOOTH."
   "MOTION PICTURE THEATER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED." A commercial establishment
where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, or similar photographic reproductions are frequently shown that are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas" or that are marketed as or offered as "adult,"
"XXX," or sexually oriented. Frequently shown films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or other similar photographic reproductions as
characterized herein do not include sexually oriented speech and expressions
that take place inside the context of some larger form of expression.
   "NUDE MODELING STUDIO." Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or semi-nudity and is to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons who pay money
or any form of consideration. "NUDE MODEL STUDIO" shall not include a
proprietary school licensed by the Commonwealth of Kentucky or a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by public taxation;
a private college or university that maintains and operates educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   "NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY." The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the areola or nipple, or the showing of the
covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state. See also "Semi-nude".
   "OPERATOR." Any person operating, conducting, or maintaining a business
regulated under this chapter.
   "OWNER(S)." The individual owner of an establishment, or if the legal owner
is a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company, the term shall
include all general partners, any limited partner with a financial interest of
ten percent (10%) or more, all corporate officers and directors, and any
shareholder or member with a financial interest of ten percent (10%) or more.
"OWNER" includes the spouse(s) of any of the above individuals.
   "PERSON." An individual, firm, partnership, joint-venture, association,
independent contractor, corporation (domestic or foreign), limited liability
company, trust, estate, assignee, receiver or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
   "PREMISES." The physical location at which a business operates; as used in
this chapter, the term shall include all parts of that physical location, both
interior and exterior, which are under the control of the subject business,
through ownership, lease or other arrangement.
   "PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT." Entertainment that characterizes the establishment,
as determined (if necessary) from a pattern of advertising as well as actual
performances.
   "PROTECTED LAND USE." Residential zoning district, school, religious
institution, park, library, public recreation area, or day care center.
   "PUBLIC AREA." A portion of a sexually oriented business, excluding sexually
oriented motels, that is accessible to the customer, excluding restrooms, while
the business is open for business.
   "SADOMASOCHISTIC PRACTICES." Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clothed or naked, or the condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of one so clothed or naked.
   "SEMI-NUDE OR IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION." The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast,
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other apparel,
provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   "SEX SHOP." An establishment offering goods for sale or rent and that meets
any of the following tests:
      (1)   It offers for sale items from any two (2) of the following
categories: sexually oriented media; lingerie; leather goods marketed or
presented in a context to suggest their use for sadomasochistic practices;
sexually oriented novelties; and the combination of such items constitute more
than ten percent (10%) of its stock in trade or occupies more than ten percent
(10%) of its floor area;
      (2)   More than five percent (5%) of its stock in trade consists of
sexually-oriented toys or novelties; or
      (3)   More than five percent (5%) of its gross public floor area is
devoted to the display of sexually oriented toys or novelties.
   "SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS." An inclusive term used to describe
collectively the following businesses: sexually oriented cabaret or theater;
sexually oriented entertainment; sexually oriented motion picture theater;
sexually oriented motion picture arcade; sexually oriented encounter center;
sexually oriented media store; sexually oriented escort bureau; bathhouse;
massage parlor; sex shop; sexually oriented modeling studio or any other such
business establishment whose primary purpose is to offer sexually oriented
entertainment or materials. This collective term does not describe a specific
land use and shall not be considered a single use category for purposes of the
county or any applicable municipal zoning code or other applicable ordinances.
   "SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE." Any license applied for under the
countywide licensing ordinance, Kenton County Ordinance No. 451.9 as amended,
establishing licensing requirements for sexually oriented businesses and
service oriented escort bureaus, adopted in 2004.
   "SEXUALLY ORIENTED TOYS OR NOVELTIES." Instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia either designed as representations of human genital organs or
female breasts or designed or marketed primarily for use to stimulate human
genital organs.
   "SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS." Include:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, or the areola or nipple of the female breast;
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; and
      (3)   Areas of the human anatomy included in the definitions of "nude" or
"nudity."
   "SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES." Acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse, or sodomy. These activities include, but are not limited to the
following: bestiality, erotic or sexual stimulation with objects or mechanical
devices, acts of human analinqus, cunnilingus, fellatio, flagellation,
masturbation, sadism, sadomasochism, sexual intercourse, sodomy, or any
excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities set
forth above with any person on the premises. This definition shall include
apparent sexual stimulation of another person's genitals whether clothed or
unclothed.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.03 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are prohibited in the City of Independence and county-
wide under Kenton County Ordinance No. 451.9, establishing licensing
requirements for sexually oriented businesses and service oriented escort
bureaus. No zoning permit shall be issued for the following prohibited
businesses:
   (A)   Sexually oriented motion picture arcade or booth;
   (B)   Sexually oriented encounter center;
   (C)   Sexually oriented motel;
   (D   Sexually oriented massage parlor or any business offering massages that
is operated by a person who is not licensed as a massage therapist in
accordance with the provisions of KRS 309.350 et seq.;
   (E)   Sexually oriented modeling studio;
   (F)   Sexually oriented nude modeling studio; and
   (G)   Sexually oriented escort bureau.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.04 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted if they hold an approved Zoning Permit and
a valid License approved under the county-wide Kenton County Ordinance No.
451.9, establishing licensing requirements for sexually oriented businesses and
service oriented escort bureaus:
   (A)   Media store with some sexually oriented media (not subject to
licensing);
   (B)   Sexually oriented media store;
   (C)   Sex shop;
   (D)   Service oriented escort bureau;
   (E)   Sexually oriented motion picture theatre; and
   (F)   Sexually oriented cabaret or theatre.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.05 PERMITTED ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A media store carrying some sexually oriented media is permitted in
any zoning district where other retail establishments are permitted.
   (B)   A sexually oriented media store, sex shop or service oriented escort
bureau is permitted in the following zoning districts if it holds an approved
Zoning Permit and a valid License approved under the county-wide Kenton County
Ordinance No. 451.9, establishing licensing requirements for sexually oriented
businesses and service oriented escort bureaus: SC (Shopping Center) Zone.
   (C)   A sexually oriented business featuring on-premise entertainment such
as sexually oriented motion picture theatre, cabaret or theatre is permitted in
the following zoning districts if it holds an approved Zoning Permit and a
valid Kenton County Sexually Oriented Business License:
      (1)   HC-1 (Highway Commercial One) Zone.
      (2)   HC-3 (Highway Commercial Three) Zone.
      (3)   LHS (Limited Highway Service) Zone.
      (4)   LSC (Limited Service Commercial) Zone.
      (5)   SC (Shopping Center) Zone.
      (6)   All Industrial (I) Zones, except for the IP (Industrial Park Zone).
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.06 ZONING PERMIT.
   Any application for a sexually oriented business zoning permit shall be
processed in accordance with Ch. 155 with the following additional
requirements:
   (A)   Zoning permit and license required. Each sexually oriented business or
service oriented escort bureau is required to obtain a Zoning Permit under the
City of Covington's Zoning Code and License under the countywide licensing
ordinance, Kenton County Ordinance No. 451.9 as amended, establishing licensing
requirements for sexually oriented businesses and service oriented escort
bureaus. However, no license is required for a media store with some sexually
oriented media.
   (B)   Order of submissions. For a new sexually oriented business or service
oriented escort bureau, the process is designed for the applicant to apply for
a zoning permit first and Kenton County license second.
   (C)   Application contents. In addition to the other requirements of an
application for a zoning permit, the applicant shall submit to the Zoning
Administrator at least the following:
      (1)   A complete description of the exact nature of the business to be
conducted;
      (2)   A location plan, showing the location of the property and the
applicant's identification of any school, religious institution, public
recreation area, park or day care center within 1,500 feet of the property;
      (3)   A sketch of the exterior and interior of the premises, showing all
areas that will be open to the public and their purposes, the dimensions of
such areas, all entrances and exits, the location of the screen for a motion
picture theatre, the location and dimensions of the stage for a cabaret or
theatre;
      (4)   A parking plan; and
      (5)   A lighting and signage plan, showing fixtures that are adequate in
number, design and location to meet the lighting requirements and applicable
provisions of the countywide licensing ordinance, Kenton County Ordinance No.
451.9 as amended, establishing licensing requirements for sexually oriented
businesses and service oriented escort bureaus.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.07 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   General standards related to sexually oriented businesses and service
oriented escort bureaus.
      (1)   Separation distances. No retail-only sexually oriented business
(sexually oriented media store or sex shop) or service oriented escort bureau
shall be located within five hundred (500) feet of any area within the zoning
districts having the designation of "residential" as the district
classification or within five hundred (500) feet of any parcel of land occupied
by a school, religious institution, park, library, public recreation area, or
day care center (considered "protected uses") in any other district.
      (2)   Separation distances. No sexually oriented business offering on-
premise entertainment (sexually oriented motion picture theatre, cabaret or
theatre) shall be located within one thousand (1,000) feet of any area within
the zoning districts having the designation of "residential" as the district
classification or within one thousand (1,000) feet of any parcel of land
occupied by a school, religious institution, park, library, public recreation
area, or day care center in any other district.
      (3)   Separation distances. No sexually oriented business shall be
located within one thousand (1,000) feet of any other sexually oriented
business or service oriented escort bureau; this restriction shall require such
a separation regardless of whether it is located within the city or within the
county.
      (4)   Single use. There shall be no more than one (1) type of sexually
oriented business or service oriented escort bureau at any one (1) location.
      (5)   Nonconformity. No legally established and permitted sexually
oriented business or service oriented escort bureau shall become nonconforming
through subsequent establishment of a school, religious institution, park,
library, public recreation area, or day care center (protected uses); nor shall
a zoning permit for a sexually oriented business or service oriented escort
bureau be denied based on the filing of a zoning permit application for a
protected use after the filing of such application for a sexually oriented
business.
      (6)   Measurement method. Where this section requires that one use be
separated from another use, measurements shall be made in accordance with this
subsection. For a use which is the only use or the principal use on a lot or
parcel, the measurement shall be made from property line to property line from
a point nearest to the use for which the measurement is being made. If the use
is located in a multi-tenant building, then the distance shall be measured from
the portion of the building of the leasehold or other space actually controlled
or occupied that is nearest to the use for which the measurement is being made.
Measurements between properties or spaces under this section shall be made by
the shortest distance between the two properties and/or spaces.
   (B)   Standards for parking. An off-street parking plan shall be submitted
as a part of the application for a zoning permit. All off-street parking shall
be in accordance with Article XI with specific standards related as follows:
      (1)   A sexually oriented media store, sex shop or service oriented
escort bureau: five and a half (5 1/2) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square
feet of gross public floor area.
      (2)   A sexually oriented cabaret or theatre: one (1) parking space for
each one hundred (100) square feet of floor area used for dancing or assembly,
or one (1) space for each four (4) persons based on design capacity, whichever
is greater, plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees on shift of largest
employment.
      (3)   A sexually oriented motion picture theatre: one (1) parking space
for each four (4) seats based on a maximum seating capacity, plus additional
space for each two (2) employees on shift of largest employment.
   (C)   Standards for exterior lighting and signage. An exterior lighting and
signage plan shall be submitted with the application for a zoning permit. The
required lighting shall be as follows:
      (1)   Exterior lighting of the entries and private parking areas shall be
a minimum of fifteen (15) footcandles as measured three (3) feet from the
ground or paving.
      (2)   For a business on a single lot or parcel, no lighting shall
illuminate any property not in control of the business by more than five (5)
footcandles as measured at the nearest adjacent property.
      (3)   All signage shall be in accordance with
Chapter 155.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.08 INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards for a service oriented escort bureau. A service oriented
escort bureau shall be subject to the following additional standards:
      (1)   Room size. The establishment shall operate all business in an open
area of at least six hundred (600) square feet of floor area. No walls,
dividers, curtains, screens, shades or other similar devices shall be used to
obscure any part of the room where customers are located.
      (2)   Lighting. The area occupied by customers shall be well lit at a
lighting level of least thirty (30) footcandles measured three (3) feet from
the floor.
   (B)   Standards for a media store with some sexually oriented media. A
retail book, video or other media store that has sexually explicit media that
constitutes more than ten percent (10%) but not more than forty percent (40%)
of its inventory or that occupies more than ten percent (10%) but not more than
forty percent (40%) of its gross public floor area shall not be classified as a
sexually oriented business but shall be subject to the following standards:
      (1)   Separate room. The sexually explicit media shall be kept in a
separate room from the rest of the inventory of the store and shall not visible
outside the room;
      (2)   Age limit. Sexually explicit media shall be available only to
persons eighteen (18) years or older;
      (3)   Access. Access to the room shall be through a solid door, accessed
by an electronic control device monitored by the clerk or manager on duty
through direct visual control;
      (4)   Visibility. Customers and activities in the room shall be visible
at all times to the clerk or manager on duty through a video system located at
the clerk's or manager's counter; and
      (5)   Lighting. The area occupied by customers shall be well lit at a
lighting level of at least thirty (30) footcandles measured three (3) feet from
the floor.
   (C)   Standards for a sexually oriented media store or sex shop. A sexually
oriented media store or sex shop shall be subject to the following additional
standards:
      (1)   Room size. The establishment shall operate all business in an open
area of at least six hundred (600) square feet of floor area. No walls,
dividers, curtains, screens, shades or other similar devices shall be used to
obscure any part of the room where customers are located;
      (2)   Displays. No displays of sexually explicit media or images shall be
visible from the exterior of the buildings; and
      (3)   Lighting. The area occupied by customers shall be well lit at a
lighting level of least thirty (30) footcandles measured three (3) feet from
the floor.
   (D)   Standards for a sexually oriented motion picture theatre. A sexually
oriented motion picture theater shall be subject to the following additional
standards:
      (1)   Presentation area. All screenings and presentations of motion
pictures, videos or other media shall occur in a room open to all customers of
the establishment and containing at least one thousand (1,000) square feet of
floor area. No walls, dividers, curtains, screens, shades or other similar
devices shall be used to obscure any part of the room.
      (2)   Lighting. The lighting level in the area occupied by customers
shall be at least five (5) footcandles as measured at the floor.
      (3)   Seating. Seating shall consist of individual, theater-style chairs,
with solid arms separating the chairs. No couches, benches, portable chairs,
beds, loose cushions or mattresses, or other forms of seating may be provided.
Separate spaces for wheelchairs shall be provided in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the building code and the Americans with Disabilities
Act.
   (E)   Standards for a sexually oriented cabaret or theatre. A sexually
oriented cabaret or theater shall be subject to the following additional
standards:
      (1)   Presentation area. All entertainment shall occur in an unobstructed
room of at least six hundred (600) square feet of floor area with a person in
any part of such room having a clear view of all entertainment areas;
      (2)   Performance stage. All entertainment shall take place on stage
elevated at least twenty-four (24) inches above the surrounding floor area,
with a minimum area of one hundred (100) square feet, and with a horizontal
separation of at least sixty (60) inches between the edge of the stage and the
nearest space to which customers have access the horizontal separation shall be
physically enforced by a partial wall, rail, or other physical barrier, which
may be located either on the stage (to keep the entertainers back from the
edge) or on the floor (to keep the customers back from the stage);
      (3)   Lighting. The lighting level in the area occupied by customers
shall be at least fifteen (15) footcandles as measured three (3) feet from the
floor.
      (4)   Seating. Seating shall consist of chairs or open booths; no
couches, beds, or loose cushions or mattresses, or of any form shall be
provided.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.09 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR REVIEW AND EXPIRATION OF ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Determination of completeness. Within five (5) business days of
submission of the sexually oriented land use permit application, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine if the application is complete. If the
application is incomplete, the Zoning Administrator shall return the
application to the applicant with a letter or form specifying the items that
are missing. The application shall not be further processed unless and until
the applicant submits a complete application.
   (B)   Review, decision. If the Zoning Administrator determines that an
application is complete, the Zoning Administrator shall review the application
and, within twenty (20) calendar days of submittal of the complete application,
grant or deny the permit. If the permit is denied, the denial shall be made in
writing, by letter or on a form, and shall specify the reasons why the
application was denied, citing the specific provisions of this chapter or other
provisions of the city's ordinances that provide the basis for such denial. If
the Zoning Administrator fails to act on a complete application within the
twenty (20) day period, the application is deemed denied. Upon denial or deemed
denial, the applicant may appeal that denial to the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   The applicant may, at its option, pursue other or additional
administrative remedies available under the zoning ordinance; by doing so,
applicant shall be deemed to have waived any right to a decision within a
particular time period and shall be subject to all of the terms, conditions and
timelines applicable to such administrative remedies under the zoning
ordinance.
   (D)   Expiration of zoning permit. The issuance of the zoning permit shall
be conditioned on the applicant obtaining and retaining a Kenton County
Occupational License for the use represented by the zoning permit. If no
license has been granted within six (6) months after the issuance of the zoning
permit, then the zoning permit shall expire; provided, however, that the
expiration date for the zoning permit shall be extended until thirty (30) days
after the end of any administrative or judicial appeal of the zoning permit.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
§ 115.10 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Appeals to Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Appeals to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person or
entity claiming to be injuriously affected or aggrieved by an official action,
order, requirement, interpretation, grant, refusal, or decision of the Zoning
Administrator. Such appeal shall be taken within ten (10) calendar days after
such action, order, requirement, interpretation, grant, refusal, or decision of
the Zoning Administrator, by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the
Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and giving notice of
such appeal to any and all parties of record. A fee shall also be paid to the
Zoning Administrator at this time. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record on which the action
appealed from was taken and shall be treated as and be the respondent in such
further proceedings. At the public hearing on the appeal held by the Board, an
interested person may appear and enter his or her appearance, and all shall be
given an opportunity to be heard.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear the appeal within thirty (30)
calendar days of its filing with the Zoning Administrator and give public
notice in accordance with KRS Chapter 424, as well as written notice to the
appellant and the Zoning Administrator at least seven (7) calendar days prior
to the hearing. The affected parties may appear at the hearing in person or by
an attorney. The Board of Adjustment shall hear the matter and render a
decision within thrity-six (36) days after the filing of the appeal. If the
Board of Adjustment fails to act within such time, the application is deemed
denied.
   (B)   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Any person or entity claiming to be injured or aggrieved by any
final action of the Board of Adjustment shall appeal from the action to the
circuit court of the county in which the property which is the subject of the
action of the Board of Adjustment lies. Such appeal shall be taken within
thirty (30) calendar days after the final action of the Board of Adjustment.
The Board of Adjustment shall be a party in any such appeal filed in the
circuit court. All final actions which have not been appealed within thirty
(30) days shall not be subject to judicial review and shall become final.
      (2)   After the appeal is taken, the procedure shall be governed by the
Rules of Civil Procedure. When an appeal has been filed, the Clerk of the
Circuit Court shall issue a summons to all parties, including the Board of
Adjustment in all cases, and shall cause it to be delivered for service as in
any other law action.
(Ord. 2006-O-09, passed 6-5-06)
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOL SALES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Types of licenses; fees
   
116.04   Issue of license
   
116.05   Information required in application
   
116.06   Terms of license
   
116.07   Display of license; lost or destroyed license
   
116.08   State license requirement
   
116.09   Hours when sales permitted
   
116.10   Consumption of alcoholic beverages by employees
   
116.11   Retail premises to furnish clear view
   
116.12   Inspection of premises
   
116.13   Limited special outdoor events
   
116.14   Extended hours permit
   
116.15   Violations of state or federal law
   
116.16   Minors
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ALCOHOL.” Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirit of win, from
whatever source or by whatever process it is produced.
   “ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.” Every liquid or solid, whether patented or not,
containing alcohol in an amount in excess of that permitted under KRS 242 and
capable of being consumed by a human being. It includes every spurious or
imitation liquor sold as, or under any name commonly used for, alcoholic
beverages, whether containing alcohol or not. It does not include the following
products if they are unfit for use for beverage purposes: medicinal
preparations manufactured in accordance with formulas prescribed by the United
States pharmacopoeia, national formulary, or the American Institute of
Homeopathy, patented , patent, and proprietary medicines, toilet, medicinal,
and antiseptic preparations solutions, and flavoring extracts and syrups.
   “BUILDING CONTAINING LICENSED PREMISES.” The licensed premises themselves
and includes any part of any building in which the premises are contained, and
any part of any other building connected with the building by direct access or
by a common entrance.
   “CITY ABC ADMINISTRATOR.” The City Clerk of the City of Independence.
   “CONVICTED” or “CONVICTION.” A finding of guilt resulting from a plea of
guilty, the decision of a court, or the finding of a jury, irrespective of a
pronouncement of judgment or the suspension of the judgment.
   “DISTILLED SPIRITS” or “SPIRITS.” Any product capable of being consumed by a
human being which contains alcohol in excess of the amount permitted by
distilling mixed with water or other substances in solution, except wine.
   “DISTRIBUTOR.” Any person who distributes malt beverages for the purpose of
being sold at retail.
   “LICENSE.” Any license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   “LICENSEE.” Any person to whom a license has been issued, pursuant to this
chapter.
   “MALT BEVERAGE.” Any fermented undistilled alcoholic beverage of any name or
description, manufactured from malt wholly or in part, or from any substitute
for malt, and having an alcoholic content greater than that permitted under KRS
241.010(2)(i).
   “PREMISES.” The land and building in and upon which any business regulated
by alcoholic beverage statutes is operated or carried on. It shall not include
as a single unit two separate businesses as a enterprise of one owner on the
same lot or tract of land, in the same or in different buildings.
   “RETAIL SALE.” Any sale where delivery is made in Kentucky to any person not
holding a license.
   “RETAILER.” Any person who sells at retail any alcoholic beverage for the
sale of which a license is required.
   “SALE.” Any transfer, exchange or barter for consideration, including all
sales made by any person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or
employee of any alcoholic beverage.
   “SELL.” Solicit or receive an order for keep or expose for sale, keep with
intent to sell, and the delivery of any alcoholic beverage.
   “WHOLESALE SALE.” A sale to any person for the purpose of resale.
   “WHOLESALER.” Any person who sells at wholesale any alcoholic beverage for
sale of which a license is required, except a distiller, rectifier, brewer, or
vintner.
   “WINE.” The product of the normal alcoholic fermentation on the juices of
fruits, with the usual cellar treatment and necessary additions to correct
defects due to climatic, saccharine, and seasonal conditions. It includes
champagne and sparkling and fortified wine of an alcoholic content not to
exceed 24% by volume.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall do any act authorized by any kind of
license provided for by this chapter with respect to the storage, sale,
purchase, transporting, or other traffic in alcoholic beverages or other
traffic in alcoholic beverages unless the person, firm or corporation holds the
kind of license from the city which authorizes such act. No person, firm, or
corporation which conducts a place of business patronized by the public and
which does not hold a license to sell distilled spirits, and wine or malt
beverages shall permit any person to sell, barter, loan, or give away, or drink
distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages on the premises of his place of
business.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.03 TYPES OF LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, no person shall conspire,
cause, permit, promote, allow, aid, assist, encourage or engage in any of the
business, transactions or occurrences authorized by the state alcoholic
beverage licenses identified in KRS 243.070 without a corresponding city
license therefore. The expiration dates of the city licenses shall be the same
as the state licenses to which they conform; and the fees for the city licenses
shall be the maximum fees allowed by KRS 243.070.
   (B)   The amount of each annual fee for a city license shall be reduced a
monthly pro rata basis, so that such annual fee is reduced by one twelfth (1/
12) thereof for each complete calendar month of the license year which has
passed prior to the issuance of such city license; provided, however, that no
such pro-rata reduction shall ever exceed fifty percent (50%) of the annual
fee.
   (C)   The renewal dates for all city licenses for traffic in alcoholic
beverages shall be the same as the renewal dates for the corresponding state
licenses.
      (1)    Issuance date for new licenses: The issuance date and due date for
fees for all annual licenses shall be as follows:
         (a)   All new licenses shall be issued when approved under the
provisions of this chapter and the fee shall be due at the time of issuance.
         (b)   The issuance date for all such licenses for which, as of the
effective date of January 1, 2008 the licensee holds a valid corresponding
state license, shall be November 1. The license fee shall be due at the time of
issuance.
         (c)   Applications for renewal of annual licenses shall be filed with
the city’s ABC Administrator not later than 15 days prior to the issuance date.
   (D)   If the applicant for any city alcoholic beverage license is indebted
to the city for any reason such as unpaid taxes, assessments, fees or fines, or
similar obligations, the license applied for shall not be issued until all such
indebtedness, together with any penalty or interest associated therewith, shall
have been paid in full.
   (E)   If any section, paragraph or clause of this section is held by a
proper Court to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining
sections, paragraphs or clauses, it being hereby expressly declared that the
reminder of this section would have been passed despite such invalidity.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10; Am. Ord. 2013-O-15, passed 12-2-13)
                                
Statutory reference
   City licenses; fees, see KRS 243.070
§ 116.04 ISSUE OF LICENSE.
   Application for the issuance or renewal of all licenses provided for in this
chapter shall be made to the City ABC Administrator on forms as may be
prescribed by the City ABC Administrator. Licenses shall be issued or renewed
and fees collected by the Office of the City Clerk. No license shall be issued
in such form as may be prescribed by the ABC Administrator. All license fees
collected pursuant hereto shall be placed in the general fund of the city.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.05 INFORMATION REQUIRED IN APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications for licenses shall be on forms furnished by the city.
They shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such information
concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is sought as
the City ABC Administrator may require. In addition to other information the
ABC Administrator may require, every application for the issuance of a license
shall contain the following information, given under oath.
   (B)   If, after a license has been issued there is a change in any of the
facts required to be set forth in the application, a verified supplemental
statement in writing giving notice of the change shall be filed with the City
ABC Administrator within ten days after the change.
   (C) In giving any notice or taking any action in reference to a license, the
City ABC Administrator may rely upon the information furnished in the
application or in the supplemental statement connected with the application.
This information, as against the licenses or applicant, shall be conclusively
presumed to be correct.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10; Am. Ord. 2013-O-15, passed 12-2-13)
§ 116.06 TERMS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All license issued hereunder shall expire on November 30 of each year.
The renewal of any alcoholic beverage license shall not be construed to be a
waiver or condonation of any violation which occurred prior to the renewal and
shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee therefore.
   (B)   When any person applies for a license authorized to be issued
hereunder on or after June 1 of any year, he shall be charged, if the license
is issued, an amount equal to one half of the annual license fee, until the
following December 1. No abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any
person who held a license of the same kind of the same premises in the
preceding license period and who was actually doing business under the license
during the last month of the preceding license period.
   (C)   No live entertainment shall be permitted after 11:00 p.m. on Sunday
through Thursday, or after 1:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday for those
establishments located in a residential zone or in a commercial zone that also
permits residential uses.
   (D)   All permit holders shall regulate noise levels to assure that noises
emanating from the establishment do not disturb the surrounding residents.
   (E)   All permit holders shall regulate the conduct of their patrons, if
possible, to assure that upon their departure from the licensed premises they
do not disturb the surrounding residents by engaging in the conduct as
urinating in the street, fighting, drinking at the curb or directly outside the
licensed premises, breaking bottles on the sidewalk or in the street, littering
the immediate area with debris, using excessive profanity or trespassing upon
private property in the immediate area.
   (F)   If the city's ABC Administrator, upon review and a hearing, shall find
repeated violations of provisions (A) through (E), he or she may suspend or
fail to renew any existing permit.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10; Am. Ord. 2013-O-15, passed 12-2-13)
§ 116.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE; LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   (A)   Before commencing or doing any business for the time for which a
license has been issued, the license shall be posted and at all times displayed
in the conspicuous place in the room or principal room where the business is
carried on, so that all persons visiting the place may readily see the license.
   (B)   No licensee shall post the license or permit it to be posted upon
premises other than the licensed premises, or upon premises where traffic in
alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee,
or knowingly deface, destroy, or alter the license in any respect.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10; Am. Ord. 2013-O-15, passed 12-2-13)
§ 116.08 STATE LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)    No license provided for hereunder shall be issued, renewed, or
transferred to any person, firm or corporation until the person, firm or
corporation shall have obtained the issuance, renewal, or transfer of the state
license corresponding thereto. In each instance the licensed premises covered
by the city license must be the same as the licensed premises covered by the
corresponding state license.
   (B)   The city license issued to any person, firm, or corporation shall
remain valid only so long as the state license corresponding thereto, issued to
the person, firm, or corporation shall be valid. Any revocation, suspension,
nonrenewal, or other action which makes the state license null and void shall
operate to revoke, suspend, make nonrenewable or null and void the city license
corresponding thereto. Any city license which is revoked, suspended, not
renewed, or so made invalid shall be immediately surrendered to the City ABC
Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.09 HOURS WHEN SALES PERMITTED.
   (A)   A licensee may sell alcoholic beverages or do any act authorized by
the licensee’s license with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages only
during the hours hereinafter set out for each such license.
      (1)   Distilled spirits package license: during the period between 6:00
a.m. to 1:00 a.m., daily, except Sunday and from 11:00 a.m. to midnight on
Sunday.
      (2)   Distilled spirits drink license: During the period between 6:00
a.m. to 2:30 a.m., daily except Sunday and from 1:00 p.m. to midnight on
Sunday.
      (3)   Distilled spirits and wine wholesaler’s license and malt beverage
distributor’s license: During the period between 6:00 a.m. and midnight every
day except Sunday.
      (4)   Retail Malt beverage licenses: During the period between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. daily, except Sunday and from 11:00 a.m. to midnight
on Sunday.
      (5)   Extended hours supplemental license: During the period between 6:00
a.m. to 4:30 a.m. daily, except Sunday and from 1:00 p.m. to midnight on
Sunday.
   (B)   However, any premises for which there has been issued a license for
the sale of distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine, by the city, after
normal hours of operation under the particular license held has expired, may
remain open only so long as the licensee provides a separate area within the
licensed premises which is capable of being locked and closed-off, within which
shall be kept all stocks of distilled spirits, malt beverages and wine, and all
apparatus connected with his or her business as a licensee and the area shall
be secure.
   (C)   If a licensee provides a separate department within his licensed
premises capable of being locked and closed of, within which is kept all stocks
of alcoholic beverages and all fixtures and apparatus connected with his
business as a licensee, and this department is kept locked during all times
when his premises are open and he or she is not authorized to sell alcoholic
beverages hereunder, he shall be deemed to have complied with this section.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10; Am. Ord. 2013-O-15, passed 12-2-13)
                                   
Statutory references:
   Hours when sale is permitted, KRS 244.290(6)
§ 116.10 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY EMPLOYEES.
   It is unlawful for any employee or independent contractor of an
establishment with a liquor by the drink license to solicit patrons of the
establishment to purchase any beverage for consumption by any employee or
independent contractor of the establishment with the liquor by the drink
license.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.11 RETAIL PREMISES TO FURNISH CLEAR VIEW.
   (A)   (1)   Any premises for which a retail liquor license has been issued
shall be maintained in such a manner and shall provide a clear view of the
entire premises from the inside front entrance, whether at street level or
otherwise.
      (2)   No partition, box, stall, screen, curtain or other device shall be
installed or placed so as to obstruct the view or the general observation of
persons.
      (3)   However, partitions, subdivisions or panels that are not higher
than forty-eight (48) inches from the floor shall not be construed as
obstructing a view or the general observation of persons from the front inside
entrance of the licensed premise.
   (B)   In the event the premises shall have a back room, no alcoholic
beverages shall be served therein unless the back room shall have a clear view
from the inside front entrance of the licensed premise.
   (C)   The darkening of any portion or area of the licensed premises commonly
used by patrons therein, exclusive of restrooms, in any manner as to prevent
any person standing at the inside front entrance from observing the conduct of
patrons therein shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.12 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall be subject to the entry of police and
other duly authorized representatives of the city at all reasonable hours for
the purpose of inspection and at all times during the operation of business at
the licensed premises.
   (B)   The licensed premises shall, at all times, be conducted in an orderly
manner and no indecent conduct shall be allowed at any time, nor shall
violations of any law be permitted.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.13 LIMITED SPECIAL OUTDOOR EVENTS.
   The City Administrator may grant, in writing, upon application to the city's
Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Administrator, no later than 14 days prior to
the. commencement date of any limited special outdoor event, the sale of
distilled spirits, malt beverages or wine, by any valid license holder, at such
limited special outdoor event, the parameters of which shall be determined by
and coordinated with the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, which shall
include, but not be limited to the size and proposed location, access for
ingress and egress, availability of parking, security and fees or admission
charges.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.14 EXTENDED HOURS PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate or maintain a business establishment within
the City permitting the sale of any alcoholic beverages between the hours of 1:
00 a.m. and 2:30 a.m. without first obtaining an extended hours permit (EHP)
from the City ABC Administrator who shall be responsible for the issuance of
all such permits.
   (B)   (1)   All applications for an extended hours permit shall be in
writing and made directly to the city's ABC Administrator. Applications can be
obtained from the office of the ABC Administrator. The ABC Administrator shall
request a confidential police report and recommendation from the Chief of
Police with respect to the considered applicant's eligibility and the written
certification of approval from the city's Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   In order to be eligible for an extended hours permit, the applicant
must have a current and valid city and state alcoholic beverage license for the
sale of liquor by the drink, retail or package.
      (3)   All fees and license charges in connection with the applicant's
business establishment due to the City, including annual minimum occupational
license, must be paid before an applicant shall be considered.
      (4)   Effective upon the passage of this section, no new permits shall be
issued without the written certification of the city's Zoning Administrator
upon the application that the proposed site requesting issuance of the permit
is not located within any residential zone of the city. All existing extended
hours permits in residential zones are hereby grandfathered and may be
transferred to a new owner at the same location.
      (5)    No applicant shall be granted an extended hours permit who has
been convicted of any felony until 5 years have passed from the date of
conviction, release from custody or incarceration, parole or termination of
probation, whichever is later or of any misdemeanor described under KRS
218A.050 through 218A.130 in the two years immediately preceding the
application; or of any misdemeanor directly or indirectly attributable to the
use of alcoholic beverages in the two years immediately preceding the a
application.
      (6)   No applicant shall be granted an extended hours permit unless the
person is an actual resident of the State or is a corporation licensed to do
business within the commonwealth.
      (7)   The approval or denial of any extended hours permit application
shall be made by the city's ABC Administrator.
      (8)   The City ABC Administrator, for just cause, may delay the issuance
of any requested extended hours permit for a period of time not to exceed 45
days.
   (C)   Persons holding extended hours permits prior to the enactment of this
section shall be granted the privilege of continuing operation without regard
to the zoning requirements of division (B)(4) of this section.
   (D)   The fee for an extended hours permit shall be two thousand dollars
($2,000) per year, payable on or before July 1 of each year.
   (E)   Proceeds of the permit fees so collected shall be deposited in the
city's general fund account. All applications and permits issued pursuant to
the provisions herein shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Number of the permit;
      (3)   Street address of the licensed premises which holds the permit;
      (4)   The name and address of the owner of the building, business
establishment or licensed premises in which the permit is located;
      (5)   The expiration date of the permit; and
      (6)   A statement that the permit shall not be a property right, and that
it may be revoked or suspended, at any time, pursuant to the law.
   (F)   All permits issued herein shall be accepted by the applicant subject
to the following: No licensee shall sell any alcoholic beverages between the
hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday, or from 2:30 a.m. to
11:00 a.m. on Sunday.
   (G)   (1)   No live entertainment shall be permitted after 11:00 p.m. on
Sunday through Thursday, or after 1:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday for those
establishments located in a residential zone or in a commercial zone that also
permits residential uses.
      (2)   All extended hours permit holders shall make every reasonable
effort to arrange for orderly closing of the establishment, including, but not
limited to instructions to customers and patrons that they should depart the
licensed premises in a quiet and orderly fashion.
      (3)   All extended hours permit holders shall regulate noise levels to
assure that noises emanating from the establishment do not disturb the
surrounding residents.
      (4)   All extended hours permit holders shall regulate the conduct of
their patrons, if possible, to assure that upon their departure from the
licensed premises they do not disturb the surrounding residents by engaging in
the conduct as urinating in the street, fighting, drinking at the curb or
directly outside the licensed premises, breaking bottles on the sidewalk or in
the street, littering the immediate area with debris, using excessive profanity
or trespassing upon private property in the immediate area.
      (5)   If the city's ABC Administrator, upon review and a hearing, shall
find repeated violations of divisions (H)(1) through (4), he or she may suspend
or fail to renew any existing extended hours permit.
   (H)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the ABC Administrator to
investigate initial applications, to investigate transfers and renewals of
existing extended hours permits and to investigate and make determinations upon
suspensions and/or revocations of the extended hours permits. He or she shall
also make determinations upon verified complaints, filed with the city's from
citizens or upon complaints received by the Police Department or other
enforcement personnel regarding the violation of law by an extended hours
permit holder for the purpose of issuing suspensions and/or revocations of the
same.
      (2)   The city's ABC Administrator shall conduct an annual review before
the renewal of any extended hours permit and if it is found, upon the review,
that the extended hours permit holder has had three or more criminal violations
occur at the business establishment and/or within the licensed premises, within
the annual period, upon a hearing, he or she shall revoke the extended hours
permit, and no renewal of the same shall be granted.
      (3)   The decision of the city's ABC Administrator shall be reduced to
writing. In the event that the city's ABC Administrator shall deny any initial
application for an extended hours permit or, at his or her discretion, delay
the issuance thereof, or shall revoke or suspend any existing extended hours
permit, for cause, or shall fail to renew any existing extended hours permit,
the applicant or holder shall be permitted to appeal the decision of the city's
ABC Administrator to the City Administrator, in writing, within ten days of the
decision. The City Administrator shall have the final determination and shall
notify the applicant or holder of his or her decision, in writing, within ten
(10) days thereof. If the City Administrator shall approve the appeal, he or
she shall instruct the city's ABC Administrator to grant the initial
application or issue or renew the existing permit. In the event of further
denial of the initial application or suspension or revocation of the existing
permit, the applicant or holder shall be notified of his or her right to
further appeal to the Kenton Circuit Court within thirty (30) days thereof.
   (I)   Whenever transfer of an extended hours permit to a different
transferee is proposed at the same location, the extended hours permit may be
transferred only if the transferee meets all eligibility requirements herein
and if the transferee has the approval of the city's ABC Administrator.
   (J)   The time changes brought into effect by the provisions within an
extended hours permit and such establishments shall be permitted to remain open
and operating for the additional hour, lost or gained, as if the same did not
exist. Therefore, at 2:00 a.m. on the day when daylight savings time takes
effect and the hour advances to 3:00 a.m., those establishments operating
within an extended hours permit shall be permitted to remain open for business
until 3:30 a.m. eastern daylight time. They shall, however, be required to
close the business immediately thereafter. At 2:00 a.m. on the day when
Daylight Savings Time changes back to Eastern Standard Time and the hour
reverts to 1:00 a.m., those establishments operating with an extended hours
permit shall be permitted to remain open for business until 1:30 a.m. eastern
standard time. They shall, however, be required to close the business
immediately thereafter. On the day immediately following each, the hours of
operation for establishments operating with an extended hours permit shall be
required to return to the normal operating hours of 1:00 a.m. to 2:30 a.m.
eastern daylight time or eastern standard time, whichever is applicable. The
purpose of this division (M) is to enable extended hours permit holders to
continue normal business operating hours, in terms of the usual actual time
they are open, without regard to the time changes brought about by the
conversion to and from eastern daylight time and eastern standard time.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.15 VIOLATIONS OF STATE OR FEDERAL LAW.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to condone the violation by any person,
firm or corporation within the city of any federal or state statute, law, or
regulation, now, heretofore or hereafter in effect applicable to any person,
firm or corporation relating to the storage, sale, purchase, transporting, or
other traffic in alcoholic beverages. Any violation of any statute, law, or
regulation shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. If any clerk, agent,
servant, or employee of any licensee shall violate any provision of this
chapter, or such statute, law, or regulation, the violation shall be a
violation by the licensee. Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the
City ABC Administrator if the licensee violates any provision of this chapter
or any provision of any statute, law, or regulation.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.16 MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who is the owner,
occupant or who is otherwise in possession of any property located in the city
to knowingly allow any other person under the age of twenty-one (21) years,
except members of the immediate family (spouse or children) of such owner,
occupant or possessor, to remain on such property while the possession of any
alcoholic beverage or while consuming any alcoholic beverage.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Pursuant to KRS 83A.065(2) the offense of violating any provision of
this ordinance is designated as a misdemeanor and a criminal fine not to exceed
the amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to
exceed the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both, may be imposed on any
person, firm or corporation who, acting by himself or through another, directly
or indirectly, commits the offense.
   (B)   All ordinances, laws, or resolutions of the city relating to alcoholic
beverage control inconsistent with these provisions are repealed. However, the
repeal of any ordinance, law, or resolution shall not prevent the prosecution,
conviction, and imposition of penalties after the date of passage thereof of
any person, firm, or corporation which violated such ordinance, law, or
resolution prior to the date of passage thereof.
(Ord. 2010-O-06, passed 5-3-10)
CHAPTER 117: OFF-SITE VEHICULAR SALES AND DISPLAY EVENTS
Section
   
117.01   Conditions
§ 117.01 CONDITIONS.
   Motor Vehicle dealers may conduct temporary off-site vehicular sales events
(“Tent Sales”) or vehicular display events in the Neighborhood Shopping Center
(NSC) zone within the City of Independence upon the following conditions.
   (A)   The dealer must obtain a permit from the city. Contents of permit
application must contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number and signature of the owner of the
property where the display is proposed to be located;
      (2)   Indicate any existing development, structures and types of uses on
the site as well as on adjoining sites of the proposed temporary off-site sales
or display event;
      (3)   Estimate the maximum number of parking spaces to be used by the
temporary off-site sales or display event; the number of parking spaces to be
“borrowed” from the sites principal use;
      (4)   All sales and activities for the event, or any part thereof, shall
be held only on a paved surface;
      (5)   Accurately state and describe the amount and type of goods or
services to be on display;
      (6)   State the dates the display is to be located on the site; and
      (7)   Depict all structures, regardless of nature, to be part of the
temporary off-site sales or display events, including tents, canopies, fences,
or barriers of any kind.
   (B)   The zoning administrator shall review the application and determine
whether or not the plan conforms to these regulations and all other applicable
provisions of the zoning regulations.
   (C)   Fee. At the time of application for a temporary off-site sales or
display event, the applicant shall pay in full to the city a fee of $250.00 per
event.
   (D)   Sales and contractors allowed. At any temporary off-site sales or
display event for which a permit has been issued, sales or contracts for
selling or providing the goods or services that are the subject of the approved
temporary off-site sales or display event shall be allowed, provided the seller
has all the appropriate city business, sales and/or occupational license, and
the like.
   (E)   Limit of permits on each site. The purpose of these regulations is to
provide limited duration rather than to establish a regular or long-term use of
land, therefore no permit shall be issued for a site under this regulation that
has had three (3) prior temporary off-site sales or display event permits
issued during the same calendar year for the same site.
   (F)   The dealer shall comply with the conditions set forth in 605 KAR
(Kentucky Administrative Regulations) 1:060.
   (G)   That the property owner of the site and dealer comply with all
planning and zoning requirements for temporary sales, if there are any in
place, or that such requirement be waived by a letter signed by the executive
authority of the city. It is the specific intent of this chapter to allow and
favor temporary off-site sales recognizing that strict compliance with planning
and zoning requirements for permanent vehicular sales would likely be
prohibitive.
(Ord. 2011-O-19, passed 11-7-11)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   MINORS
      
132.   NUDITY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   [Reserved].
   
130.02   Toxic substances
   
130.03   Alcoholic Beverages
   
130.04   Discharge of firearms
   
130.05   Portable storage units
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 [RESERVED].
§ 130.02 TOXIC SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "TOXIC GLUE." Any glue, adhesive cement, mucilage, plastic solvent, or other
adhesive containing toluene, acetone, xylene, butyl alcohol, hexane, tricresyl
phosphate, or other toxic ingredient.
   "PAINT THINNER." The chemical substance commercially available for the
purpose of diluting or removing paint and which, if used in a manner prohibited
by this section, produces intoxication or any other abnormal mental, emotional,
or physical state of being.
   (B)   No person shall drink, eat, or otherwise introduce into his or her
body any toxic glue or paint thinner for the purpose of becoming intoxicated,
elated, paralyzed, irrational, or for the purpose of abnormally affecting his
or her senses of sight and equilibrium.
   (C)   No person shall inhale or by any other means introduce toxic glue or
paint thinner and vapors therefrom into his or her respiratory system for the
purpose of becoming intoxicated, elated, paralyzed, irrational, or for the
purpose of abnormally affecting his or her senses of sight and equilibrium.
   (D)   No person shall possess, buy, sell, transfer possession or receive
possession of toxic glue or paint thinner for the purpose of violating or
aiding and abetting another to violate any provision of this section.
   (E)   No person shall sell or transfer possession of any toxic glue to
another person under twenty-one (21) years of age, except that one (1) tube of
glue containing not in excess of two (2) fluid ounces may be sold at any one
time to a person under twenty-one (21) years of age, provided that the tube is
included in a kit for the assembly of a model airplane, automobile, boat, or
other unassembled model, or when a kit not having glue packaged therein is sold
in conjunction with the sale.
   (F)   No person shall sell or transfer possession of paint thinner to
another person under twenty-one (21) years of age unless the buyer or
transferee presents a bona fide order to the seller from his or her employer
whose occupation is that of a painter or painting contractor.
(Ord. 4-7-72, passed 7-13-72)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No person being the owner, occupant, or otherwise having the care,
custody, or control of any property located in the city, shall knowingly allow
any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to remain on such property while
in the possession of any alcoholic beverage or while consuming any alcoholic
beverage.
   (B)   No duly licensed organization or individual shall be permitted to sell
or serve liquor or malt beverages prior to the hour of 11:00 a.m. on Sundays.
All other licensing, sale, service, and enforcement issues dealing with
alcoholic beverages shall remain under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
(Ord. 1-1-87, passed 1-27-87; Am. Ord. 2003-O-08, passed 7-7-03)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Definitions.
   "FIREARM." A weapon which will expel a projectile by the action of an
explosive.
   "PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SHOOTING RANGE OR GALLERY." An area, either enclosed or
out-of-doors, at which firearms are discharged at targets and which is designed
in a safety conscious manner so that projectiles fired from firearms at targets
are prevented, by means of backstops or other barriers, from going beyond the
safe boundaries of the practice area. A shooting range or gallery must be
designed in such a way as to prevent the creation of potential for harm to
persons or property.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall discharge a firearm when the discharge could
reasonably serve to endanger persons or property.
      (2)   This section is subject to the provisions of division (D) below.
   (C)   Except as set forth in division (D), no person shall discharge a
firearm within one hundred (100') feet of the centerline of a public street.
   (D)   This chapter shall not prevent the discharge of a firearm:
      (1)   In self-defense, defense of others, and defense of property to the
extent allowed by local, state and federal law;
      (2)   By law enforcement officers in performance of their duty;
      (3)   By persons lawfully engaged in hunting or pest control (when such
hunting or pest control is accomplished in a safety conscious manner);
      (4)   At public or private shooting ranges or galleries as defined in
division (A); and
      (5)   At lawful turkeyshoots and other lawful community sponsored events
requiring the use of firearms, and which are operated in a safety conscious
manner.
(Ord. 1995-0-15, passed 9-12-95)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.05 PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS.
   (A)   A temporary storage unit shall be defined as any portable storage
container, unit or other similar device used to temporarily store personal
property and which is placed in the front yard, driveway or anywhere on a
residential property.
   (B)   A permit must be obtained from the city Zoning Administrator for the
placement of any temporary storage unit as defined herein. The permit shall be
valid for fourteen (14) days from the date of issuance. The Zoning
Administrator shall grant an extension upon a showing of good cause, but in no
event shall the placement of a temporary storage unit exceed twenty-eight (28)
days.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue citation(s) to any person(s)
violating this section. The citation shall be for immediate removal and
imposing a fine of not less than two-hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and not
more than five-hundred dollars ($500.00). Should the portable unit not be
removed pursuant to the direction in the citation, the Zoning Administrator
shall have the right to have the unit removed at the cost of the property
owner. Under this section, if the property owner does not reimburse the city
within thirty (30) days, the city will have the right to place a lien on the
property on which the violation has occurred. Additionally, any citizens with
an existing portable storage unit at the time of adoption of this section shall
have sixty (60) days to come into compliance.
(Ord. 2006-O-04, passed 3-6-06)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
130.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or imprisoned
for not more than fifty (50) days, or both.
(Ord. 4-7-72, passed 7-13-72)
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00), or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or
both.
(Ord. 1-1-87, passed 1-27-87)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
130.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense, and any parent of any minor who shall knowingly permit such minor to
violate this subchapter shall likewise be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense.
(Ord. 1995-0-15, passed 9-12-95)
CHAPTER 131: MINORS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Curfew established
   
131.03   Offenses
   
131.04   Defenses
   
131.05   Enforcement
   
131.06   Police Chief review and report
 
   
131.99   Penalty
CURFEWS
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CURFEW HOURS."
      (1)   The hours between 11:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday and 6:00 a.m., prevailing time, on the
following day; and
      (2)   The hours between 1:00 a.m., prevailing time and 6:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, on any Saturday and Sunday.
   "EMERGENCY." An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, without limitation,
fires, floods, natural disasters, automobile accidents and any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   "ESTABLISHEMENT." Any privately owned place of business, which is operated
for a profit, and to which the public is invited, including, without
limitation, any place of amusement or entertainment.
   "GUARDIAN."
      (1)    Any person who is the guardian of the person of a minor, pursuant
to a court order or judgment; or
      (2)   Any public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court order.
   "MINOR." Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   "OPERATOR." Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting an establishment, including, without
limitation, the members or partners of an association or partnership, and the
officers of a corporation.
   "PARENT." Includes the natural parent, adoptive parent and step parent of a
person under eighteen (18) years of age, and also any person least eighteen
(18) years of age who has been authorized and appointed by a parent or guardian
to have the care, custody and control of a child or ward thereof under eighteen
(18) years of age.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including, without limitation, streets, highways, parks,
playgrounds and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses,
office buildings and transportation facilities.
   "REMAIN." To linger or stay, or to fail to leave the premises when requested
to do so by any peace officer, or the owner, tenant, operator or any other
person in control of the premises.
   "SERIOUS BODILY INJURY." A bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death, or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted
loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(Ord. 1996-0-14, passed 7-9-96)
§ 131.02 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   The following curfew hours for minors are hereby established by, in, and for
the city as follows:
   (A)   The hours between 11:00 p.m., prevailing time, on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday and 6:00 a.m., prevailing time, on the following
day; and
   (B)   The hours between 1:00 a.m., prevailing time, and 6:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, on any Saturday or Sunday.
(Ord. 1996-0-14, passed 7-9-96)
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.03 OFFENSES.
   During the curfew hours established hereby:
   (A)   No minor shall remain in any public place or on the premises of any
establishment; and
   (B)   No parent or guardian of any minor shall knowingly permit or allow, by
insufficient control or supervision, or otherwise, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment; and
   (C)   No owner, operator, or employee of an establishment shall knowingly
permit, or allow by insufficient supervision and control, or otherwise, any
minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment.
(Ord. 1996-0-14, passed 7-9-96)
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.04 DEFENSES.
   The following circumstances are hereby established as affirmative defenses
to any criminal or civil proceedings for any violation of this chapter.
   (A)   The minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the parent or guardian thereof, or
      (2)   In a motor vehicle in the course of interstate travel; or
      (3)   Engaged in any employment activity, or going to or returning home
from any employment activity, without any detour or stop; or
      (4)   Involved in an emergency; or
      (5)   On the sidewalk abutting the residence of the minor, or abutting
the residence of a next door neighbor, without any complaint by the next door
neighbor to the police department of the city about the presence of the minor
thereon; or
      (6)   Attending any school or religious activity, or any recreational
activity supervised by the adults and sponsored by either the city, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from any such activity, without any detour
or stop; or
      (7)   Exercising any rights secured and protected by the first amendment
to the United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech, or the right of peaceable assembly; or
      (8)   Married or otherwise emancipated; or
   (B)   The owner, operator, or employee of an establishment has promptly
notified the police department of the city that a minor was present on the
premises during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 1996-0-14, passed 7-9-96)
§ 131.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before enforcing any provision of this chapter by a citation, arrest,
or other custodial activity, the enforcing officer or officers shall inquire of
the person suspected of being a minor as to the actual age of that person and
his reason and purpose for remaining or otherwise being in a public place or
establishment during the curfew hours.
   (B)   No enforcing officer shall enforce any provision of this chapter by
any citation, arrest or other custodial activity unless the officer reasonably
believes from the responses of the person suspected of being a minor or any
other circumstances, that an offense and violation of this chapter has
occurred, and that there are no defenses to the enforcement of this chapter as
described herein.
   (C)   In the enforcement of this chapter, all enforcing officers shall
comply with the duties identified in KRS 610.200 through KRS 610.280, and shall
also comply with the provisions of all other applicable laws, including,
without limitation, the Kentucky Unified Juvenile Code in KRS Chapters 600 to
645.
(Ord. 1996-0-14, passed 7-9-96)
§ 131.06 POLICE CHIEF REVIEW AND REPORT.
   Twelve (12) months after the enactment of this chapter, the police chief
shall review the enforcement thereof, and report and make recommendation to the
city council regarding the effectiveness thereof and the continuing need
therefore. The report of the police chief shall specifically include the
following information:
   (A)   The practicality of enforcing this chapter and any problems with
enforcement identified by the police department; and
   (B)   The impact of the enforcement of the chapter on crime statistics; and
   (C)   The number of persons successfully prosecuted for violations of this
chapter; and
   (D)   The city's net cost of enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-0-14, passed 7-9-96)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be and constitute a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Any person convicted of violation of the provisions thereof in a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to
exceed the maximum amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) as set forth in KRS
534.040(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of
twelve (12) months as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both; and
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if not paid by the offender within thirty
(30) days after citation of the violation or other failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-0-14, passed 7-9-96)
CHAPTER 132: NUDITY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Regulations established
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Nudity prohibited
   
132.04   Permitting nude or nearly nude activities prohibited
   
132.05   Violations; punishments
   
132.06   Revocation of liquor license authorized
   
132.07   Revocation of occupational license authorized
   
132.08   Regulations for adult dancing establishments
Licenses
   
132.25   License fee; tax
   
132.26   Qualifications for obtaining
   
132.27   Registration of employees and proprietors required
   
132.28   Clear view required
   
132.29   Revocation; suspension of license
   
132.30   Procedures for revocation; suspension
   
132.31   Renewals; transfers
   
132.32   Performance standards
   
132.33   Advertising restrictions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   It is necessary for the council of the city to establish reasonable
and uniform regulations that will reduce the adverse impact of adult
entertainment with nudity within the city.
   (B)   In order to preserve the public peace in good order, it is necessary
and advisable for the city to prohibit nudity to safeguard the health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words when used in this chapter shall have the meaning
ascribed to them except where the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
   "NUDITY" or "NUDE." Any portion of the pubic area, anus, vulva, or genitals,
or any simulation thereof, the cleavage of the human buttocks, or for any
female, the portion of the breast below a horizontal line across the top of the
areola at its highest point or simulation thereof. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided
the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   "PENALTY." Any person who shall violate this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to fine and/or imprisonment as
provided in the Kentucky Revised Statutes for a class B misdemeanor.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." The same as "Public Place" in KRS 525.010.
   "BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT." A business within the city where liquor, beer and/
or wine is sold for consumption on the premises pursuant to a retail drink
liquor license and/or retail cereal malt beverage liquor license that has been
issued by the State of Kentucky.
   "LICENSE." A retail drink liquor license or a retail cereal malt beverage
liquor license issued by the State of Kentucky.
   "LICENSEE." Any person to whom a retail drink liquor license or a retail
cereal malt beverage liquor license has been issued by the State of Kentucky,
including the officers and agents of the licensee.
   "OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE." The occupational license issued for the business
establishment pursuant to the city's occupational license Chapter 110 of this
code which, notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, including ' 132.27
herein, shall remain in full force and effect.
   "PERSON." A human being, and, where appropriate, a public or private
corporation, an unincorporated association, a partnership, a government or a
governmental authority or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   "PREMISES." The land and building in and upon which any business
establishment regulated by alcoholic beverages statutes is carried on.
   "RETAIL LICENSEE." Any licensee, including its officers and agents, who
sells at retail any alcohol beverage for the sale of which an occupational
license is required.
   "LIQUOR ADMINISTRATOR." The duly appointed alcoholic beverage control
administrator of the State of Kentucky.
   "ADULT DANCING ESTABLISHMENT." A business wherein employees, agents, or
independent contractors perform dance routines.
   "ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT." An adult motion picture theater,
massage parlor, an adult book store, an adult dancing establishment, or any
other such business establishment whose primary purpose is to offer adult
oriented entertainment or matter as characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities and/or exposure of specified anatomical areas.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.03 NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to appear on a business establishment's
premises or in a public place nude or nearly nude.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.04 PERMITTING NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   A licensee or retail licensee is guilty of permitting nude or nearly nude
activity when, having control of the business establishment's premises, which
it knows or has reasonable cause to know is being used by any person to appear
on the premises nude or nearly nude or when it permits the activity or fails to
make a reasonable and timely effort to halt or abate the activity or fails to
make a reasonable and timely effort to halt or abate the activity or use.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.05 VIOLATIONS; PUNISHMENTS.
   (A)   Performing nude or nearly nude activities as set forth in this chapter
or permitting those activities is in violation. Punishment shall be fixed as
set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   The second violation of this chapter within a twelve (12) month period
shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor with punishment as set forth in the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Three (3) or more violations within a twelve (12) month period shall
constitute a Class A misdemeanor with punishment as set forth in the Kentucky
Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.06 REVOCATION OF LIQUOR LICENSE AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   In the event that a violation of this chapter occurs, a state liquor
administrator may forthwith conduct a hearing pursuant to KRS, Section 243.520
(in conjunction with Sections 241.160 and 241.190), to determine whether the
liquor licensee, at whose business establishment the activity prohibited by
this chapter occurred, shall have his or her or its license suspended or
revoked.
   (B)   In the event three (3) or more violations of this chapter occur at a
business establishment within a twelve (12) month period, the liquor
administrator, after a hearing, may revoke the retail drink license or retail
cereal malt beverage liquor license or both.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.07 REVOCATION OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs, the city clerk shall
prefer charges against the retail license and after notice, a hearing, etc.,
held by the city council, the occupational license shall either be revoked or
suspended.
   (B)   In the event three (3) or more violations occur at a business
establishment within a twelve (12) month period, after notice and hearing, the
city council shall revoke the occupational license of the retail licensee.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.08 REGULATIONS FOR ADULT DANCING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   An adult establishment shall observe the following requirements:
   (A)   Persons engaged in displaying or exposing specific anatomical areas
are prohibited from simulating specified sexual activity with any patron,
spectator, employee, or other person on the premises of an adult dancing
establishment.
   (B)   No person in an adult dancing establishment shall engage in the
display of or exhibition of specified anatomical areas, except while said
person is positioned in or occupying an entertainment area consisting of a
platform or other structure raised not less than eighteen (18) inches nor more
than twenty-four (24) inches above the immediately surrounding main floor area
and encompassing an area of at least one hundred (100) square feet, and while
the person so displaying or exhibiting is positioned not less than three (3)
feet from any patron or spectator.
   (C)   No spectator or patron shall be present in the entertainment area
defined above during the course of any performance involving the display or
exhibition of specified anatomical areas.
   (D)   No person maintaining, managing, owning, or operating an adult dancing
establishment shall suffer, allow, or permit the construction, maintenance, or
use of areas partitioned or screened from public view that are designed to be
occupied or are commonly occupied, alone or together, by a person or persons on
the premises of such establishments for performances, private or otherwise,
involving the display of or exhibition of specified anatomical areas or to
permit any employee or patron to violate any provision of this chapter.
   (E)   No person on the premises of an adult dancing establishment shall be
permitted to use or be present in areas partitioned or screened from public
view that are designed to be occupied, together or alone, by any person or
persons on the premises of such establishment for the display of or exhibition
of specified anatomical areas.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter pertaining to adult dancing establishments
shall be construed to permit or authorize any act or activities that are
prohibited by state law and these sections are meant to be in addition to any
acts or activities that are so prohibited.
   (G)   Specified anatomical areas shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals or pubic
region; the cleavage of the human buttock, any portion of the human female
breast below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest
point or simulation thereof. This definition shall include the entire lower
portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any portion exhibited
by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel
provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
      (2)   The human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   (H)   Specified sexual activities shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: Bestiality, erotic or sexual stimulation with objects or mechanical
devices, human genitalia in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast, acts of human anilingus, cunnilingus,
fellatio, flagellation, or sodomy, any excretory functions as part of or in
connection with any of the activities set forth above with any person on the
premises.
   (I)   Adult dancing shall include, but not be limited to the following: Any
dances which express to view by patrons or spectators on the premises at any
time the bare female breast below a horizontal line across the top of the
areola at it highest point, which shall include the entire lower portion of the
human female breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the
human female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit,
or other wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in
part, human genitals, pubic region or cleavage of the human buttocks, or human
or simulated male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered, straddle dancing, lap dancing, face dancing, or any
similar type of dancing known by any other name in which an employee, agent, or
independent contractor whether clothed or not, uses any part of his or her body
whether directly or through a medium, to massage, rub, stroke, knead, caress or
fondle the genitals or pubic area of a patron, while on the premises or the
placing of the genitalia or pubic area of an employee in contact with, or
approximate contact with, the face or any other area of the body of a patron,
while on the premises.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
LICENSES
§ 132.25 LICENSE FEE; TAX.
   Every person who contractually or otherwise engages in the operation or
employment of an adult entertainment establishment as defined herein shall in
addition to the regular occupational license fee charged by the city pay an
annual license fee of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars per year and due on the
date as Chapter 110 of this code requires. Every person who engages in
employment, contractually or otherwise, as an independent contractor in an
adult entertainment establishment as defined herein shall pay the regular
occupational license fee charged by the city. The licenses shall be valid upon
issuance and shall not be transferable to any other person during the period of
the license. The tax shall be charged to offset the city's expenses in
exercising its police and regulatory powers involving adult entertainment.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.26 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OBTAINING.
   (A)   Any person engaging in the operation or employment, contractually or
otherwise, of an adult entertainment establishment, before being issued a
license, shall be required to meet the following qualifications:
      (1)   Applicant must be free of convictions for any felony; any
conviction related to prostitution; any conviction involving the presentation,
exhibition, and/or performance of an obscene production, any conviction
involving misconduct with a minor or any conviction involving the maintenance
of a nuisance in connection with the same or similar business within the last
two years, nor can the applicant have had any adult entertainment establishment
license revoked for cause within the last two (2) years. If the applicant has
ever had an adult entertainment establishment license revoked for cause, the
applicant must post a bond in the amount of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars
to ensure compliance with the performance standards established by the city, as
set forth herein, and to insure that he will not permit the premises, to be
utilized for illegal purposes.
      (2)   Applicant must submit to fingerprinting by the city police
department.
      (3)   Applicant cannot owe any fees or taxes of any kind or nature to the
city.
      (4)   Applicant's premises must meet all established health, zoning,
fire, building, and/or plumbing codes and cannot provide direct interior access
to residential living quarters.
      (5)   Applicant must file a financial disclosure form with the city
clerk. The form shall be supplied by the city clerk.
      (6)   Applicant shall file a floor plan with his application clearly
exhibiting all entrances, exhibits, stairways, and all rooms in the building
and their intended uses.
      (7)   Applicant must acknowledge that the licensed premises shall include
the building and any adjacent parking lot.
      (8)   In the event applicant does not own the premises to be licensed, a
copy of the lease rental agreement between the applicant and the property owner
shall be submitted along with the application to the city clerk.
   (B)   An applicant aggrieved by any decision herein of the city clerk shall
have ten (10) days to appeal the decision to the city council.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.27 REGISTRATION OF EMPLOYEES AND PROPRIETORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person employed or working in any capacity, whether it be as an
employee or as a working proprietor, in any adult entertainment establishment
or place of business, except as hereinafter provided, shall register in a book
of registration to be kept by the police department, and is hereby required to
be registered, finger printed, and photographed by the police department of the
city prior to the date of commencing his or her employment with such
establishment. No person shall fail to register or be finger printed or
photographed prior to commencing such employment.
   (B)   No employer shall allow any person to be employed unless the employee
(s) shall have registered and shall have been finger printed and photographed
within the time period and as prescribed in paragraph (A) above.
   (C)   The registrants under this section are required to have the
identification cards issued by the police department in their immediate
possession while within their house of employment. The identification card
shall contain the registrant's picture, name, age, hair color, eye color,
weight, and place of employment.
   (D)   The city shall require a payment of twenty ($20.00) dollars of each
person registered, which charge shall be applied to cover the cost involved in
the registration, including the cost of the identification card furnished to
the registrants.
   (E)   Any adult entertainment establishment that employs a contract cleaning
service or maintenance service to work in their establishment after closing
hours shall require those persons so employed by the contractor to wear an
identification card while working in the establishment.
   (F)   Any employee previously registered for employment at the same
establishment under the city's liquor bar identification/registration
provisions shall be exempt from further registration at the establishment
absent any lapse or suspension of said identification.
   (G)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be fined not less
than twenty five ($25.00) dollars nor more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars
in the discretion of the county district court.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.28 CLEAR VIEW REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any establishment licensed for adult entertainment shall be maintained
in such a manner and shall provide a clear view of the entire area open to the
public from the front entrance to the entertainment area, whether at street
level or otherwise. No partition, box, stall, screen, curtain, or other device
shall be installed or placed so as to obstruct the view or the general
observation of persons in any entertainment area; however, partitions,
subdivisions, or panels that are not higher than forty-eight (48) inches from
the floor shall not be construed as obstructing a view or the general
observation of persons from the front entrance of the licensed premises.
   (B)   The darkening of any portion of the licensed premises open to the
public in any manner as to prevent any person standing at the front entrance
from observing the conduct of patrons should be prohibited.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be guilty of
a class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than two hundred fifty
($250.00) dollars or incarceration for a period of ninety (90) days or both a
fine and incarceration.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.29 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Causes for which an adult entertainment establishment license can be
suspended or revoked are as follows:
   (A)   Conviction by the licensee, his employees, agents, or independent
contractors for any offense occurring on the licensed premises involving or
related to:
      (1)   The production, presentation, exhibition, or performance of any
entertainment that is deemed to be obscene.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct or disorderly premise.
      (3)   Unlawful transaction with a minor.
      (4)   Maintenance of a nuisance in connection with the same or similar
business.
      (5)   Prostitution, solicitation, for the purpose of prostitution, or
loitering for the purpose of prostitution.
      (6)   The sale, transfer, possession, or use of any controlled substance.
      (7)   A violation of the city's ordinance regarding nude or nearly nude
dancing and/or activity.
      (8)   Any violation of any other section of this chapter.
   (B)   Noncompliance with any health, zoning, fire, building, and/or plumbing
codes adopted by the city.
   (C)   Noncompliance with the performance standards established herein for
the conduct of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (D)   The filing of a false application or disclosure form.
   (E)   Permitting the employment of a minor.
   (F)   A conviction for permitting the on premises sale or consumption of
alcoholic beverages in any adult entertainment establishment that is not
licensed to sell alcohol beverages.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.30 PROCEDURES FOR REVOCATION, SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license issued under this section may, with notice to the holder
thereof and a hearing as hereinafter provided for, be revoked or suspended by
the city council:
      (1)   If, within twelve (12) months prior to the date on which charges
are filed, there has been a conviction of any licensee or his agent, servants,
or employees for any action or activity occurring in, on, or at the premises
covered by the license in violation of any provision of this chapter or any
other ordinance of the city, or of any criminal or penal statute of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky against gambling, disorderly conduct, or any other
criminal or penal offense, and a judgment of conviction in any court of
competent jurisdiction shall be conclusive evidence of such violation;
      (2)   If there shall occur in, on, or at the premises covered by the
license any condition which is a nuisance or obnoxious to the morals and
general welfare of the public;
      (3)   If any person is disorderly in, on, or at the premises covered by
the license and disturbs the good order of the community and/or the license or
his agents, servants, or employees suffer or permit any disorderly conduct in,
on, or at the licensed premises; or
      (4)   If the licensee or his agents, servants, or employees shall
misrepresent any material facts as to the kind of business in his return, or
any other fact necessary or proper to determine the amount of license fee to be
paid.
   (B)   When the city has probable cause to believe that a license should be
revoked for any of the causes enumerated herein, it shall be the duty of the
chief of police to prefer charges against the holder of a license by filing a
statement of charges against the holder of a license with the city clerk. The
charges shall be in writing and each charge shall be clearly set out. Within
three (3) days after the filing of charges with the city council, a notice of
the filing of the charges and of the time of the hearing shall be mailed to the
licensee at the address shown on the license. A hearing before the city council
shall be held within ten (10) days after the filing of charges with the
council. The evidence shall be transcribed, and the action and decision of the
city council on the charges shall be reduced to writing and recorded in the
minutes book. Upon a decision by the city council to revoke or suspend a
license issued under this chapter, all business activity at that location shall
cease immediately for the period of suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.31 RENEWALS; TRANSFERS.
   (A)   Renewal of any existing adult entertainment establishment license
during a period when charges against the same are pending for a hearing before
the city council for revocation shall not constitute a waiver of the charges.
   (B)   No transfer of an existing adult entertainment establishment shall be
permitted so long as charges against the same are pending for a hearing before
the city council.
   (C)   In the event an adult entertainment establishment license is
surrendered by the license holder pending charges against the license and prior
to any revocation hearing, or is revoked after a hearing, no new license
certificate shall be issued to any person when, in the discretion of the city
clerk, the same is attempted for the sole purpose of allowing the previously
surrendered or revoked license holder, or the holder of a license surrendered
in lieu of revocation, to operate business under a new adult entertainment
establishment license and merely in the name of another person, the same
constituting a "sham" application.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.32 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any premises for which an adult entertainment establishment license
has been granted shall provide view as set forth in chapter.
   (B)   Dressing rooms shall be provided for all dancers.
   (C)   A barrier, including but not limited to a handrail, half-wall, or
other similar device must be constructed that separates the performing area
from the patrons.
   (D)   Employees shall not be permitted to loiter in an open doorway or
entrance of the licensed premise.
   (E)   All doors to the licensed premises must be closed except for the
limited time necessary to allow for ingress and egress during the hours of
performance.
   (F)   No one under the age of eighteen (18) shall be permitted as a patron
or employee during the hours the premises are open for business.
   (G)   No person who has been convicted of any prostitution related offense
within the last two (2) years shall be employed.
   (H)   The license holder and all employees shall register with the police
department to insure that they are neither minors nor have any disqualifying
convictions within the last two (2) years.
   (I)   The use by the license holder, his employees, agents, or independent
contractors of video cameras and/or any other surveillance equipment to monitor
persons entering and exiting the licensed premise shall be strictly prohibited.
   (J)   An adult entertainment establishment shall not be permitted to open
for business between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. each day.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.33 ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any adult entertainment establishment license holder shall be required
to identify such business as "adult" in any advertisement.
   (B)   No lettering, words, or representation of matter relating to sexual
activities as defined in this chapter shall be placed upon any advertisement.
   (C)   Adult entertainment activities or photographs of the same shall not be
displayed within any licensed premises in such a manner as to be open to the
general public view from outside the licensed premise.
   (D)   Each application for an adult entertainment establishment license
shall be accompanied by a photograph or drawing of any signs to be displayed on
the exterior of the establishment with an indication as to the dimensions of
the same.
   (E)   Signage shall be posted in conspicuous locations indicating that
persons must be of appropriate age or older to enter.
   (F)   All currently existing adult entertainment establishments shall come
into compliance with the performance standards and other provisions of this
chapter upon passage and publication of this chapter.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a class A misdemeanor as defined by law in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and subject to confinement in the county jail for a period not to
exceed one year, a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), or both
fine and incarceration up to those stated maximums.
(Ord. 1994-0-4-2, passed 4-26-94)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.     BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.     COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.     FLOOD PROTECTION DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS
      
153.     SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.     UNFIT DWELLINGS AND STRUCTURES
      
155.     ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; Standards of Safety
   
150.02   Building permits
   
150.03   Gang mail boxes prohibited; exceptions
   
150.04   House or box numbers to be displayed; size requirements
   
150.05   Schedule of fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.15   Building Inspector; duties; compensation
   
150.16   Responsibility for plan review, inspections, and enforcement
   
150.17   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   (A)   The 2018 Kentucky Building Code, as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by
the Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, the
Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky
Administrative Regulations; and the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained
in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies
of the above codes, together with a copy of all other regulations or N.F.P.A.
pamphlets adopted or referred to thereunder, and any amendments thereto, shall
be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk, where they shall be
available for public inspection during normal business hours. The Building
Inspector shall be designated as the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky
Building Code. All inspections shall be performed by persons certified by the
Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction.
(Ord. 1997-0-15, passed 8-26-97; Am. Ord. 2007-O-22, passed 11-5-07; Am. Ord.
2014-O-1, passed 3-3-14)
   (B)   The city does hereby adopt the 2018 Kentucky Residential Code to apply
to all one- and two-family dwellings, and townhouses, located in the city,
which are fabricated, erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, and/or repaired
within the jurisdiction; together with such appurtenances and accessory
structures. The Code further provides for the issuance of permits and provides
for penalties for the violation of any provision of this code.
(Ord. 1997-0-13, passed 8-12-97; Am. Ord. 2004-O-13, passed 8-2-04; Am. Ord.
2007-O-23, passed 11-5-07; Am. Ord. 2014-O-02, passed 3-3-14)
   (C)   Each of the codes, including all penalty provisions thereof and
including any amendments thereto, shall be in force throughout the city.
   (D)   The city hereby adopts any subsequent editions of the Kentucky
Building Code (International Building Code with Kentucky Supplement) and the
Kentucky Residential Code (International Residential Code with Kentucky
Supplement). Any subsequent editions of the Kentucky Building Code and the
Kentucky Residential Code shall supersede the prior code. The new code shall be
adopted in full as an ordinance of the city as if set out at length herein.
   (E)   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 198B.010(5), KRS Chapter 198B and
the Kentucky Building Code, as adopted in division (A) above, are hereby
extended to cover single-family dwellings which may hereafter be constructed
within the city.
(Am. Ord. 2024-O-01, passed 2-5-24) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, on behalf of the City of Independence, shall issue a
building permit for an owner or other applicant where there are any outstanding
violations of code provisions and/or any un-remedied code violations pending,
not on appeal, against the owner or other applicant, or any entity in which the
owner or other applicant has any ownership interest. No person, on behalf of
the City of Independence, shall issue a building permit for an owner or other
applicant where there are any outstanding or unpaid taxes or assessments
against the property in question, or any other property owned by the same
applicant, person, or entity within the City of Independence.
   (B)   A schedule of building permit fees is set out in §
150.05.
(Ord. 2005-O-13, passed 5-2-05; Am. Ord. 2012-O-06, passed 8-6-12)
§ 150.03 GANG MAIL BOXES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is in the best interest of the citizens to regulate the
installation of neighborhood delivery and collection box units (gang mail
boxes) within the city. Any future installation of these units will continue to
be prohibited in all traditional single-family residential developments to
prevent any problems or inconveniences upon its residents and furthermore to
avoid confusion for residents in Independence except when:
      (1)   Circumstances exist which may impede regular mail delivery and
installation of a gang mail box can be reasonably expected to correct this
circumstance;
      (2)   The city, through the City Administrator, and the United States
Postal Service (USPS) mutually agree that a location may qualify for a gang
mail box, and city funds are available based on a shared cost between city and
USPS; and
      (3)   Fifty-one percent (51%) of the property owners affected by the gang
mail box by having their mailbox moved to the gang mail box, shall cast a
ballot as provided by the city in favor of placing a gang mail box on the
street. The city shall give one ballot per owner, and mailed to the address of
record, at the time of the vote, at the Kenton County PVA.
   (B)   Gang mail boxes may be installed and used in conjunction with multi-
family residential developments and multi-unit commercial and/or shopping
developments, provided they be used and installed in compliance with, or in
cooperation with, the United States Postal Service and any requirements that
service may have.
(Ord. 1993-0-1, passed 2-9-93; Am. Ord. 2004-O-21, passed 9-13-04; Am. Ord.
2018-O-12, passed 9-10-18)
§ 150.04 HOUSE OR BOX NUMBERS TO BE DISPLAYED; SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A   The city has determined that appropriate house or box numbers be
displayed in a manner that is always visible to emergency response vehicles in
order to promote the general welfare and safety of the citizenry.
   (B)   Each structure to which a street number has been assigned shall have
the number so assigned displayed in a position easily observed and readable
from the public right-of-way at all times and in all types of weather. All
numbers shall be in arabic figures at least three (3) inches (76 mm) high and
one half (1/2) inch (13 mm) wide.
(Ord. 1996-0-25, passed 12-10-96)
§ 150.05 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   There is hereby established the following schedule of fees for zoning
permits, appeals, zoning applications, and other matters pertaining to the city
zoning regulations:
Residential Building Permit Fees
Construction Type Fee            Notes
Residential Building Permit Fees
Construction Type         Fee                   Notes
Single Family Dwelling                          a separate HVAC permit is
(Detached)                $0.22 per square foot required for all
                                                installations
                                                a separate HVAC permit is
Two Family Dwelling       $0.22 per square foot required for all
                                                installations
                                                a separate HVAC permit is
Condominium/Townhome      $0.22 per square foot required for all
                                                installations
                                                a separate HVAC permit is
Alteration/remodel        $0.22 per square foot required for all
                                                installations
                                                a separate HVAC permit is
Modular Home              $240                  required for all
                                                installations
                                                a separate HVAC permit is
Manufactured Home         $120                  required for all
                                                installations
                                                a separate HVAC permit is
Move and Set              $240                  required for all
                                                installations
                                                a separate HVAC permit is
Large addition            $240                  required for all
                                                installations
                                                a separate HVAC permit is
Small addition            $150                  required for all
                                                installations
Sun Room                  $90                    
Large Accessory Storage   $150                   
Structure
Small Accessory Storage   $90                    
Structure
Accessory Structures/Uses $90                   (decks, porches, walls +)
Basement finish/remodel   $120                   
In ground pool            $90                    
Demolition                $90                    
Fence >6 feet in height   $25                    
Residential mechanical                         see HVAC fee schedule
   Multi-family                             contact electrical inspector
                                                for permit and fees
Electrical permits                              
Misc.                     As determined          
Special provisions        Fee                   Notes
Replacement permits                             
   Permit only         $90                    
Plan revisions (after two $100                   
submittals)
Reinspections (after 1)   $100                   
Special inspections       $100                   
Construction without a    Fee X2                 
permit
Special inspections       $100                   
Commercial Building Permit Fees
Construction type Fee Plus
                      1-5K sf 5-30K sf 30K+ sf
Commercial Building Permit Fees
Construction type         Fee    Plus
                                 1-5K sf 5-30K sf 30K+ sf
New/addition to structure $1,000 .12/sf  .072/sf  .048/sf
Tenant finish/alteration  $250   .12/sf  .072/sf  .048/sf
Change of use                                   
   If same type        $100                   
   If different        $240                   
Cellular antenna tower    $180                   
Co-location               $120                   
Demolition                $120                   
Commercial Electric       $25                    
Fire alarm                $240                   
Fire suppression          $240                   
HVAC                      See HVAC schedule below
Range Hood                $240                   
Swimming pool             $240                   
Fence >6 feet in height   $180                   
Sign                      $60                    
Retaining wall            $180                   
Foundation only           $180                   
Accessory structures/uses $180                   
 
Special Provisions Fee Due
Special Provisions                   Fee          Due
Replacement permits                               
   Permit only                    $25           
   Additional modifications       $50           
Reinspections (after 1)              $200          
Construction without a permit        Above fee x2  
Plan revision (after two submittals) $100          
State reviewed permits               50% of fees   
Special inspections                  $120          
 
HVAC Permit Fees
HVAC Permit Fees
Set by Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction
(are subject to change)
Residential                                                    Fee
1 and 2 Family Dwellings (first system)                        $105
1 and 2 Family Dwellings (each additional system)              $50
Multi-Family Buildings (first system)                          $105
Multi-Family Buildings (each additional system)                $50
Commercial                                                     Fee
Amount based on total dollar value of the HVAC installation
2,000 or less                                                  $125
2,001 to 10,000                                                $180
10,001 to 25,000                                               $270
25,001 to 50,000                                               $330
50,001 to 75,000                                               $390
75,001 to 100,000                                              $500
100,001 to 150,000                                             $630
150,001 to 200,000                                             $760
200,001 to 250,000                                             $885
250,001 to 300,000                                             $1,025
300,001 to 400,000                                             $1,150
400,001 to 500,000                                             $1,500
500,001 to 600,000                                             $1,725
600,001 to 700,000                                             $1,900
700,001 to 800,000                                             $2,125
800,001 to 900,000                                             $2,355
900,001 to 1,000,000                                           $2,590
1,000,001 to 1,100,000                                         $2,820
1,100,001 to 1,200,000                                         $3,050
1,200,001 to 1,300,000                                         $3,280
1,300,001 to 1,400,000                                         $3,510
1,400,001 to 1,500,000                                         $3,735
1,500,001 to 1,600,000                                         $3,965
1,600,001 and above $3,965 plus $200 per $100,000 in excess of  
$1,600,000
The City of Independence reserves the right to request documented
proof of contracted amounts.
*   All fees are non-refundable.
*   All fees to be paid in full at time of submission.
   (A)   All of the fees established herein shall be made payable to the city.
The fee must accompany the application and all payments are non-refundable.
   (B)   All zoning and building permit fees shall be doubled for projects
started without permits.
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 5-4-15; Am. Ord. 2023-O-07, passed 5-1-23)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.15 BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is the person responsible for enforcing the
Kentucky Building Code adopted in §
150.01.
(Ord. 11-1-80, passed 1-24-80)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall review all building permit
applications for new construction or substantial improvements to determine
whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a
proposed building site is in a location that has a flood hazard, any proposed
new construction or substantial improvement (including prefabricated and mobile
homes) must be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, use construction materials and
utility equipment that are resistant to flood damage, and use construction
methods and practices that will minimize flood damage;
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new developments to assure that all proposals are consistent with the
need to minimize flood damage, all public utilities and facilities, such as
sewer, gas, electric, and water systems are located, elevated, and constructed
to minimize or eliminate flood damage, and adequate drainage is provided so as
to reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
      (3)   The Building Inspector shall require new or replacement water
supply systems or sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters in the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters, and require on-site waste disposal systems to be
located so as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during
flooding.
(Ord. 1-8-74, passed 8-22-74)
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall receive compensation for issuing
nonconforming use permits equal to 50% of the nonconforming use permit fee.
This shall apply to nonconforming use permits issued since the present zoning
code became effective. This compensation shall be in addition to other
compensation heretofore provided for the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 1-3-76, passed 3-25-76)
   (D)   The Fire Chief is the person responsible for enforcing the State
Standards of Safety adopted in §
150.01.
§ 150.16 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLAN REVIEW, INSPECTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall assume plan review, inspection, and enforcement
responsibility under the Kentucky Building Code adopted by §
150.01 for all buildings within the boundaries of its jurisdiction which:
      (1)   Are not more than three stories in height, exclusive of attic and
basement;
      (2)   Do not contain more than 20,000 square feet of floor area;
      (3)   Are not educational or institutional occupancies;
      (4)   Are not frozen food locker plants;
      (5)   Are not places of assembly with a capacity for more than 50
persons;
      (6)   Are not business, industrial, or mercantile occupancies with a
capacity of more than l00 persons;
      (7)   Are not state owned or leased; and
      (8)   Are not high hazard occupancies.
   (B)   The State Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction shall
retain plan review inspection and enforcement responsibility under the Kentucky
Building Code for all other buildings within the city.
   (C)   The Department shall provide continuing education seminars for local
building officials and plan reviewers; and shall assist the local Building
Department on a consulting basis by providing interpretation service,
enforcement assistance service, and administrative review service.
(Agreement, passed 4-l0-80)
§ 150.17 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector or the city under this
chapter may be taken to the State Department of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction unless and/or until the city establishes a City Board of Housing
Appeals as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B to hear such appeals.
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(l))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(l))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $l0 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city does hereby adopt that portion of the Kenton County Comprehensive
Plan as it applies to the city.
(Ord. 1-1-83, passed 2-10-83)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PROTECTION DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS
Section
   
152.01   Findings of fact; purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Lands to which chapter applies
   
152.04   Special flood hazard areas in incorporated land
   
152.05   Special flood hazard areas in unincorporated land
   
152.06   Development permit
   
152.07   Compliance
   
152.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.09   Interpretation
   
152.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.11   Designation of local floodplain coordinator
   
152.12   Permit process
   
152.13   Duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain coordinator
   
152.14   Areas of land adjacent to streams, rivers, or bodies of water
   
152.15   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.16   Variance procedure
§ 152.01 FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of this city are subject to periodic
inundation which result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by
the location in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
protected from flood damage.
   (B)   Purpose. The purposes of the flood protection development controls
are:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood height or velocity.
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters.
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Notwithstanding other definitions within this chapter, the following
definitions shall only apply to this section of the chapter:
   “ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).” Any walled and roofed expansion to
the perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common
load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any waited and roofed addition, which
is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-
bearing walls, is new construction.
   “AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.” A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to
three feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   “AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.” The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   “BASE FLOOD.” A flood which has a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). Base flood is
the term used throughout this chapter.
   “BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).” The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, Al-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and
AR/AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   “BASEMENT.” That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four sides.
   “BREAKAWAY WALL.” A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   “COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).” A program developed by the Federal
Insurance Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the
Regular Program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures for protection from flooding.
   “Community Flood Hazard Area (CFHA).” An area that has been determined by
the Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   “CRITICAL FACILITY.” Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   “DEVELOPMENT.” Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   “ELEVATED STRUCTURE.” A non-basement structure built to have the lowest
floor elevated above ground level by means of fill solid foundation perimeter
walls, piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls, (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   “ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.” A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   “EMERGENCY PROGRAM.” The initial phase under which a community participates
in the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   “ENCLOSURE.” That portion of a structure below the Base Flood Elevation
(BFE) used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   “ENCROACHMENT.” The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill-excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   “EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.” Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1. 1975 for
FIRMs effective before that date. “EXISTING CONSTRUCTION” may also be referred
to as “Existing structures.”
   “EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the legislative body
based on specific technical base flood elevation data which established the
area of special flood hazards.
   “EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   “FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.” The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   “FLOOD” “FLOODING”, or “FLOOD WATER.”
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows"). See Mudslides.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See flood-
related erosion.
   “FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWay MAP (FBFM).” A map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   “FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).” A map on which the boundaries of the
flood-mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   “FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP ("FIRM).” A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   “FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.” The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   “FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA.” Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by flood waters from any source.
   “FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.” The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.” The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.” This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other
applications of police power, which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   “FLOODPROOFING.” Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   “FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.” A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   “FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the "regulatory floodway".
   “FLOODWAY FRINGE.” That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydrologic analysis.
   “FLOOR.” The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   “FREEBOARD.” A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   “FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY.” A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   “HAZARD POTENTIAL.” The possible adverse incremental consequences that
result from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g. safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   “HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   “HISTORIC STRUCTURE.” Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)    By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)    Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   “INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).” Increased cost of compliance coverage
provides for the payment of a claim for the cost to comply with State or
community floodplain management laws or ordinances after a direct physical loss
by flood. When a building covered by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy under
the NFIP sustains a loss and the state or community declares the building to be
substantially or repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the
cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish, or remove the building.
   “ICC COVERAGE.” Available on residential and non-residential buildings (this
category includes public or government buildings, such as schools, libraries,
and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   “LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).” Is an official FEMA determination, by letter,
to amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).” A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).” A revision based on technical data
that usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   “LETTER OF MAP REVISION — FILL (LOMR-F).” A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   “LEVEE.” A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   “LEVEE SYSTEM.” A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
For a levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a Federal or State
agency, an agency created by Federal or State law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   “LIMITED STORAGE.” An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   “LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure's foundation
system.
   “LOWEST FLOOR.” The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   “MANUFACTURED HOME.” A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required
utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar
transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer
and intended to be improved property. The term "manufactured home" does not
include a “recreational vehicle” (see Recreational Vehicle).
   “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   “MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL).” The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   “MITIGATION.” Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
costs of disaster response and recovery.
   “MUDSLIDE (i.e. MUDFLOW).” Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   “NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).” The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   “NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).” As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM'S. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “NEW CONSTRUCTION.” Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of these floodplain management regulations and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   “NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of these floodplain management regulations.
   “NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD).” As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM's and Digitally Referenced FIRM'S
(DFIRM's).) (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “OBSTRUCTION.” Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   “ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (SEE BASE FLOOD).” The flood that
has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-year flood. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.
   “PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.” A community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   “PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31. 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   “POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” Construction or substantial improvement that
started on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   “PROBATION.” A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   “PROGRAM DEFICIENCY.” A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3.
60.4. 60.5. and/or 60.6.
   “PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE.” Anything which is injurious to safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   “REGULAR PROGRAM.” The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   “REGULATORY FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See Base Flood.
   “REMEDY A VIOLATION.” The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with State or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   “REPAIR.” The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing
structure.
   “REPETITIVE LOSS.” Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a 10-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or three or more flood
losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than the
current value of the structure.
   “SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).” That portion of the floodplain subject
to inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown
on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO or AR.
   “START OF CONSTRUCTION.” Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development. The date a building permit is issued, provided, the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home oh a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   “SECTION 1316.” That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.”
      (1)   Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage occurring.
This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive loss.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, “repair” is considered to
occur when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences.
      (3)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any-alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   “SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.” Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or
improvement to a building, taking place during a 1-year period in which the
cumulative percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current
market value of the building.
      (1)   For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions, or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
“historic structure;” or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   “SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.”
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   “SUSPENSION.” Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   “UTILITIES.” Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment.
    “VARIANCE.” Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   “VIOLATION.” Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply
with this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   “WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.” The height in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, for other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or river
areas.
   “WATERSHED.” All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   “ZONE.” A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.03 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the legislative body from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the
legislative body which may be subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters
that can adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.04 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS IN INCORPORATED LAND.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Kenton County,
with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS), other supporting data
and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of these regulations, and for those land areas acquired
through annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of
applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other
areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to
the City Council/Commission by the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by
City Commission pursuant to statutes governing land use management regulations.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.05 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS IN UNINCORPORATED LAND.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Kenton County,
with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS), other supporting data
and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of these regulations. This FIS and attendant mapping is
the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by
studies for other areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which
are recommended to the Fiscal Court by the Floodplain Administrator and are
enacted by the Fiscal Court pursuant to statutes governing land use management
regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are permanent records of the County and are on
file and available for review by the public during regular business hours at
the Planning and Development Services of Kenton County (PDS) offices, located
at 2332 Royal Drive, Fort Mitchell, Kentucky 41017.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07; Am. Ord. 2015-O-01, passed 1-5-15)
§ 152.06 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA).
   (B)   The legislative body of the City of Independence hereby appoints the
Zoning Administrator to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07; Am. Ord. 2015-O-01, passed 1-5-15)
§ 152.07 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the legislative body from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this section is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be increased
by man-made or natural causes. This section does not imply that land outside
the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas will be
free from flooding or flood damages. This section of the ordinance shall not
create liability on the part of the Local Floodplain Coordinator or any officer
or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on these
regulations or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.11 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL FLOODPLAIN COORDINATOR.
   [Insert Title Of Employee] is hereby appointed to administer and implement
the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.12 PERMIT PROCESS.
   In addition to the requirements within Zoning Ordinance, all applications
for a Development Permit shall be made to the Local Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to,
the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information may be required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (“including basement”) of all buildings.
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential building will be flood-proofed.
      (3)   Certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood-proofed building will meet the flood-proofing
requirements of this section.
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of the proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Provide a floor elevation or flood-proofing certificate after the
lowest floor, or flood-proofing is completed. Upon placement of the lowest
floor or flood-proofing, by whatever construction means, it shall be the duty
of the permit holder to submit to the Local Floodplain Coordinator a
certificate of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation, as
built, in relation to Mean Sea Level. Said certificate shall be prepared by, or
under the direct supervision of, a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building, said
certification shall be prepared by, or under the direct supervision of, a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Local Floodplain Coordinator shall review the submitted floor
elevation survey data. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected
by the permit holder immediately and prior to further progressive work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey, or failure to make said
corrections, shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.13 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN COORDINATOR.
   The duties of the Local Floodplain Coordinator shall include, but not be
limited to:
   (A)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit requirements
of these regulations have been satisfied.
   (B)   Advise applicants that additional federal or state permits may be
required, and if specific federal or state permits are known, require that
copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the Kentucky Division of Water prior
to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   (E)   Verify and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level,
of the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved building.
   (F)   Verify and record the actual elevation, in relation to Mean Sea Level,
to which the new or substantially improved buildings have been flood-proofed.
   (G)   Obtain certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect, when flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building.
   (H)   Provide interpretation as to the exact location of boundaries of the
areas of special flood hazard.
   (I)   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and
floodway data that may be available from any federal, state or other source,
when base flood elevation data or floodway data has not been provided pursuant
to these regulations.
   (J)   Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of these
regulations.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.14 AREAS OF LAND ADJACENT OT STREAMS, RIVERS OR BODIES OF WATER.
   Areas of land adjacent to streams, rivers, or bodies of water which have a
high degree of susceptibility to flooding shall be limited to development
according to the following regulations, notwithstanding any other section of
this chapter or any other ordinance adopted by the city.
   (A)   The limits of the floodplain (areas subject to flooding during the
occurrence of a 100-year flood) and floodway are identified as Flood Protection
Control Areas on the zoning map, pursuant to the Flood Insurance Study prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This study, along with any
accompanying maps and other supporting data, and any revisions thereto, are
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this section.
   (B)   (1)   Areas designated as susceptible to flooding during the
occurrence of a 100-year flood shall be controlled by both the zoning district
in which the area is located and the requirements of this section.
      (2)   In the case of any proposed activity located along other
tributaries or bodies of water not covered in these tables, and located in
those areas which are identified as being susceptible to flooding, according to
the report prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation
Service, “Soil Survey of Boone, Campbell and Kenton Counties, Kentucky,”
August, 1973, a survey shall be made by a qualified, registered civil engineer
establishing the elevation of the 100-year flood and floodway for said areas
prior to the issuance of any zoning and building permits.
   (C)   No person, city, county, or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence filling of any area with earth, debris, or any other material,
or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building, barrier, or
obstruction of any sort on any area, including making any alteration or
relocation of a waterway, located within the floodway which would result in any
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of a 100-year flood discharge.
In those cases where a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the flood
carrying capacity of said portion of the waterway affected must be maintained.
Plans and specifications for such work shall be submitted to the Local
Floodplain Coordinator for review to determine if said encroachment will meet
the requirements of this chapter. Said plans shall also be submitted to the
Kentucky Department of Natural Resources & Environmental Protection. Division
of Water Resources, and other applicable agencies, for their review and
approval.
   (D)   AH land outside the floodway of the bodies of water, but located
within the floodplain, may be used for any purpose for which it is zoned,
provided that:
      (1)   Any new residential construction, including any expansion or
substantial improvements of existing residential structures as herein defined,
within said floodplain. shall have the lowest floor elevated to a minimum of
two feet above the level of the 100-year flood. Electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment, and other service
facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
For all new construction and substantial improvement, fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, and which are subject to
flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must be certified by a
professional engineer or architect.
      (2)   Any new non-residential structures, including any expansion or
substantial improvements of non-residential structures, within the floodplain
area, shall have the lowest floor elevated to a minimum of two feet above the
level of the 100-year flood or together with attendant mechanical, utility, and
sanitary facilities shall be designed and floodproofed so that below the 100-
year flood level the structure is water tight with walls impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydro-dynamic loads and effects of frequency
certified by a professional engineer or architect. For all new construction and
substantial improvement of elevated nonresidential structures, fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must be certified by a
professional engineer or architect.
      (3)   For all new construction and substantial improvement of elevated
non-residential structures, fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that
are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an
area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet
the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
   (E)   All utilities constructed to serve structures which are to be located
within the floodplain shall be flood protected at a minimum to the elevation of
the 100-year flood level.
   (F)   All construction or modification of buildings and structures,
including flood-proofing measures and techniques in the flood plain area, as
required within this section, shall be in accordance with the applicable design
standards of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' publication, entitled “Flood
Proofing Regulations,” June, 1972 GPO 19730-505-026 Edition, or as amended, and
the following requirements:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and mechanical and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems' discharges
from the systems into flood waters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems, where permitted, shall be located
to avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (G)   In addition to the above requirements, manufactured homes, as herein
defined, shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   No manufactured home or recreational vehicle shall be placed in a
floodway.
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to
ground anchors. Specific requirements shall be that:
         (a) Over-the-top ties be provided at each end of the manufactured
home, with one additional tie per side at an intermediate location on
manufactured homes of less than 50 feet and one additional tie per side for
manufactured homes of 50 feet or more;
         (b) Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with four
additional ties per side at intermediate points for manufactured homes less
than 50 feet long and one additional tie for manufactured homes of 50 feet or
longer;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds;
         (d)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      (3)   For new manufactured home parks and subdivisions; for expansions to
existing manufactured home parks and subdivisions; for existing manufactured
home parks and subdivisions where the repair, reconstruction or improvement of
the streets, utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
streets, utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
has commenced; and, for manufactured homes not placed in a manufactured home-
park or subdivision require:
         (a)   That all manufactured homes meet all of the requirements for new
construction, including elevations and anchoring;
         (b)   Stands or lots are elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so
that the lowest floor of the manufactured home will be a minimum of two feet
above the base flood level;
         (c)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above grade;
         (d)   The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement;
         (e)   Adequate surface drainage and access for a hauler are provided;
         (f)   In the instance of elevation on pilings:
            1.   Lots are large enough to permit steps;
            2.   Piling foundations are placed in stable soil no more than ten
feet apart; and
            3.   Reinforcement is provided for pilings more than six feet above
the ground level.
   (H)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted to be located within the limits
of the floodplain, subject to compliance with the following requirements:
      (1)   The recreational vehicle must be on the site for less than 180
consecutive days;
      (2)   The recreational vehicle must be fully licensed and ready for
highway use; or
      (3)   That the recreational vehicle meet the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes, as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on wheels
or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   (I)   Any existing structure or use which is located within the floodplain
and which does not conform to the requirements herein shall be nonconforming
and subject to the requirements of this chapter, providing, however, any
existing permitted use and structure may be modified, altered, or repaired to
incorporate flood proofing measures, where such measures do not raise the level
of the 100-year flood.
   (J)   All land designated “Flood Protection Control Area” on the Official
Zoning Map, but determined to be above the elevation of the 100-year flood
level may be used for any purpose for which it is zoned without further flood
protection controls.
   (K)   A survey of the site in question will be required prior to the
issuance of any building permit or construction activity that would alter the
site in any manner, to establish the existing elevation of the land.
   (L)   After completion of the first floor elevation, as provided in this
section, an elevation certificate shall be provided to and maintained in the
offices of the Zoning Administrator - Building Official.
   (M)   A site plan, as regulated by this chapter, shall be required for any
land below the elevation of the 100-year flood level.
   (N)   A zoning permit, as regulated by this chapter shall be required prior
to any grading or construction within any area designated as being located
within the floodplain.
   (O)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.15 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
§ 152.16 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The [Name Of Appeal Board] shall hear and decide appeals and requests
for variances from the requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   The [Name Of Appeal Board] shall hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made
by the Local Floodplain Coordinator in the enforcement or administration of
these regulations.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the [Name Of Appeal Board] may
appeal such decision to the appropriate court of law, as provided in the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and
the variation is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
   (E)   In passing upon such applications, the [Name Of Appeal Board] shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter; and
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, in the case
of a functionally dependent facility.
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for the area.
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as water, gas, electrical, and sewer systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed in this chapter and the
purpose of these regulations, the [Name Of Appeal Board] may attach such
conditions to the granting of the variation as it deems necessary to further
the purposes of these regulations.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon determination that the
variation is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief; and in the instance of an historical building, a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character
and design of the building.
      (2)   Variations shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship;
         (c)   A determination that granting of the variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the building is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (4)   The Local Floodplain Coordinator shall maintain the records of all
appeals and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
(Ord. 2007-O-17, passed 10-1-07)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
   
153.02   Amendments
   
153.03   Underground utilities required
   
153.04   Street signs required
   
153.05   Street lighting required
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Subdivision regulations adopted by the Kenton County and Municipal Planning
and Zoning Commission and the City Council are hereby adopted by reference.
§ 153.02 AMENDMENTS.
   The subdivision regulations adopted by reference in §
153.01 above, shall be amended as follows:
   (A)   New alternative subdivision regulation Section 7.1D shall read as
follows:
      “Except as herein provided, individual on-site sewage disposal systems
may be permitted in those areas identified on the Kenton County Comprehensive
Plan as “Urban/Suburban Focus Area” and “Rural Focus Area”, in accordance with
the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction - Division of Plumbing
Regulations. Furthermore, individual on-site sewage disposal systems may be
permitted only under the following conditions:
      1) Such on-site systems shall be permitted to be located on sites along
existing, improved and newly constructed streets, except that any existing
right-of-way and pavement width may be widened where required by these
regulations.
      2) The site shall contain a minimum area of one (1) acre with a minimum
lot width at the setback line of 100 feet.
      3) Said system shall be provided with an aerobic type (aerator) treatment
plant which will be effective until a connection is made to a centralized sewer
system, except that in the “Rural Focus Area” the on-site sewage disposal
system shall be in accordance with the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction - Division of Plumbing Regulations.
      In the event that existing sanitary sewer lines are located within a
reasonable distance of the site, as determined by the planning commission's
duly authorized representative, then said site shall be connected to the public
sanitary sewer system. Where permitted, under these regulations, all such
systems shall also be approved by the appropriate agencies.
(Am. Ord. 4-12-78, passed 12-4-78)
   (B)   Section 6.0, G, shall read as follows with the adopted amendment
indicated as underlined:
   "G." Street Names and House Numbers:
      1.   Duplication: The name of a new street shall not duplicate existing
or platted street names in the county, or approximate such names in spelling,
or sound or pronunciation, or by the use of alternate prefixes such as "North",
"South", or such suffixes as "Lane", "Way", "Drive", "Avenue", "Street", etc.
      2.   Continuation of Streets: New street names shall bear the same name
of any continuation of, or when in alignment with, an existing or platted
street.
      3.   Approval of Street Names: All street names shall be approved by the
planning commission's duly authorized representative, before approval of the
final plat.
      4.   House Numbers: House numbers shall be assigned by the planning
commission's duly authorized representative before approval of the final plat."
   (C)   Section 3.16 shall read as follows:
   "SECTION 3.16 SUBMISSION AND PROCESSING OF CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REGIME
PLATS:
   A.   GENERAL: In accord with the Horizontal Property Law (KRS 381.805 -
381.910), whenever a developer, the sole owner, or the co-owners of a building
or buildings constructed or to be constructed, expressly declare, through the
recordation of a master deed or lease, a condominium property regime may be
established. Once the property is submitted to the condominium property regime,
a unit in the building(s) may be individually conveyed and may be the subject
of ownership possession or sale and other acts as if it were sole and entirely
independent of the other units in the building(s) of which they form a part and
the corresponding individual titles and interest shall be recordable. It is the
purpose of the condominium property regime plat to provide a process whereby
two (2) or more apartments, townhouses, rooms, office spaces, or other units in
existing or proposed buildings or structures may be subdivided and offered or
proposed to be offered for sale in accordance with requirements as established
by these regulations. In order to be processed as a condominium property regime
plat, the following requirements must be met in addition to other requirements
of these regulations and applicable sections of KRS 381.805 to 381.910:
   1.   The condominium project will not involve the construction of any public
streets, water lines, storm and sanitary sewers which require review and
processing through preliminary and final plat procedures.
   2.   The condominium project will not involve the subdivision and conveyance
of land with any unit within the condominium property regime for which other
processes are available.
   B.   SUBMISSION OF CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REGIME PLATS: The developer shall
submit to the planning commission's duly authorized representative, five (5)
copies of the final plat drawing prepared in accordance with Article V of these
regulations. In addition to other requirements of these regulations, the final
plat shall show the location of the building or buildings proposed for the
condominium project. Simultaneously, with the submission of the final plat,
there shall be attached five (5) copies of a set of floor plans of the building
or buildings in accord with KRS 381.835 bearing the certification of a
registered architect or professional engineer.
   At this time, the following information shall be filed with the planning
commission's duly authorized representative:
   1.   Application for Condominium Property Regime Plat Approval: An
application form provided by the commission, shall be submitted (see Appendix
E) at the time of filing for Condominium Property Regime Plat approval.
   2.   Traverse Sheets: One (1) copy of the traverse calculations. The minimum
traverse calculations required shall include a closed traverse of the property
(as per Section 5.0, B).
   3.   Master Deed or Lease: One (1) copy of the master deed or lease, in
accord with the requirements of KRS 381.835 to 381.837.
   4.   Condominium Property Regime Plat Fees: Plat fees shall be submitted the
same as for Final Plats, in accord with Section 8.1 of these regulations.
   C.   PROCESSING OF CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY REGIME PLATS: The planning
commission's duly authorized representative shall review the condominium
property regime plats for conformance to the applicable requirements of Article
V or these regulations and KRS 381.805 to 381.910. Following the review, the
planning commission's duly authorized representative shall forward its
recommendation and/or comments to the planning commission. The planning
commission shall then review the recommendations of its duly authorized
representative and shall take one of the following actions: (1) approve the
condominium property regime plats; (2) or disapprove the condominium property
regime plats. Should the planning commission disapprove the plats, written
notice of such action, including the reasons for disapproval, shall be mailed
to the subdivider by the planning commission's duly authorized representative.
The action shall be entered in the official records of the planning commission.
If approved and signed by the chairman of the planning commission, the original
condominium property regime plats shall be recorded simultaneously with the
master deed or lease in the county clerk's office per the county's
requirements."
(Am. Ord. 2015-O-01, passed 1-5-15)
§ 153.03 UNDERGROUND UTILITIES REQUIRED IN THE CITY.
   (A)   The extension of utilities within any current or new development, be
it residential, commercial, industrial or otherwise, that are above the surface
of the ground is prohibited so as to promote the general health, welfare and
safety of the citizenry.
   (B)   All such utilities must be underground.
   (C)   The extension of electrical transmission lines, distribution lines,
and or service lines, together with any pole and structures that hold such
lines, that will be utilized to get electricity to any such development, as
referred to above, may be above ground if it is determined by a majority of The
City Council that putting said utilities underground would create an undue
hardship due to extraordinary natural conditions (significant underground rock
formations, bodies of water, other obstructions, and the like - crossing
beneath a roadway does not constitute an undue hardship in and of itself). If
an exception is granted, every effort should be made to minimize the impact on
the visual environment and limit the distance in which said lines and
structures are extended above ground.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit:
      (1)   The temporary above ground location of utility lines, together with
any pole and structures that hold such lines, during construction for a period
of one year, or until completion of construction, whichever occurs first;
      (2)   The temporary above ground location of utility lines, together with
any pole and structures that hold such lines, during emergency conditions; or
      (3)   The at or above-grade location of transformers, service or meter
pedestals and similar accessory installations, including any aboveground
utility lines necessarily or customarily extending above-grade in an
underground utility line system.
(Ord. 1992-0-1, passed 1-14-92; Am. Ord. 1996-0-21, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord.
2013-O-14, passed 11-4-13)
§ 153.04 STREET SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city has determined that the installation of street signs in new
subdivisions or other new developments is necessary to promote the general
welfare and safety of the citizenry.
   (B)   Where any new subdivision, or other new development, includes the
construction of a street or streets to be dedicated and accepted by the city,
the city shall construct and install green and white reflective street signs,
depicting the name of the street or streets, at each intersection with another
street. Additionally, the city shall install all other appropriate signs
including, but not limited to, stop signs, speed limit signs, parking, and no
parking signs.
   (C)   The minimum dimensions of such street signs shall be eight (8) inches
in height and twenty-four (24) inches in width. All other signage shall be in
conformity with state law regarding size and color.
   (D)   Upon the installation of any sign hereunder, the city shall bill the
developer for the costs of the signs and for the costs of labor for said
installation. Billing for labor shall be at the regular employee rates that the
city pays such employees which shall be billed at a minimum of thirty (30)
minute increments. The city shall thereafter assume responsibility for
maintenance of the signs.
(Ord. 1996-0-22, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. 2005-O-09, passed 5-2-05)
§ 153.05 STREET LIGHTING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where any new subdivision, or other development, includes the
construction, extension, or improvement of a street to be dedicated and
accepted by the city, such developer shall construct and install street
lighting within said street and streets as a part of the construction,
extension, or improvement thereof.
   (B)   Plans for the construction, extension, or improvement of a street
shall be submitted to the utility company, or other entity, which will install,
maintain or otherwise operate the lights. That utility, or other entity, shall
either:
      (1)   Prepare plans and details for the lighting system based upon the
minimum standards contained herein, or
      (2)   Shall approve any such plans as already prepared in detail.
   (C)   No less than five (5) sets of said plans shall then be submitted to
the city for review and approval. Plans submitted to the city shall contain and
depict, at a minimum, the location of each lighting fixture; details of the
lighting pole and fixtures which shall include the manufacturers name, pole and
fixture style, pole and fixture model, type of light produced, and output of
the fixture; and the location of each power source including any power supply
crossings. It shall be the responsibility of the City Building Inspector, and/
or the City Engineer, to review the submitted plans for compliance with this
ordinance.
   (D)   Fees. There shall be a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), payable to the
city, to cover the cost of the review.
   (E)   The minimum standards for street lighting shall be as follows:
      (1)   Spacing between lighting fixtures shall be a maximum of three
hundred (300) feet as measured along the centerline of the street.
      (2)   Lighting fixtures shall be no less than fourteen (14) feet nor more
than twenty (20) feet in height, measured from the ground line at the fixture
base to the top of any fixture.
      (3)   Lighting shall be located so as to illuminate each and every
intersection proposed or created. If any two (2) intersections are less than
six hundred (600) feet apart, but more than three hundred (300) feet apart,
there shall be a lighting fixture placed midway between the intersections.
      (4)   Each lighting fixture proposed in a residential area shall be
capable of producing light measurable in lumens, with an average output of a
least seven thousand (7,000) lumens.
      (5)   In residential areas, the lighting fixtures shall produce a white
light. No high pressure sodium or other yellow type light shall be permitted in
a residential area.
      (6)   Each lighting fixture shall be shielded, be equipped with diffuser
devices, or some other method, to prevent direct light from entering the living
quarters of adjacent houses.
      (7)   Where street construction is an extension of an existing street or
subdivision, the proposed lighting system shall match, as closely as possible,
the lighting components of the existing system.
      (8)   The power source of a lighting system herein shall be extended to
the end of any proposed development so as to be readily available for future
development without significant disruption to city right-of-ways.
      (9)   Lighting fixtures shall be constructed on both sides of the right
of way alternating from side to side. Lighting fixtures shall be constructed in
the island area of any divided street or boulevard.
      (10)   Lighting fixtures shall be constructed within the right of ways,
the preferred location being between the sidewalk and curb.
      (11)   Lighting fixtures located at intersections with arterial streets
shall have break-away bases.
   (F)   Lighting systems shall be constructed, in place, and operational upon
completion of the construction of the street or streets. Building permits will
not be issued until the lighting system is completed as herein provided.
CHAPTER 154: UNFIT DWELLINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
   
154.01   Adoption of national property maintenance code
§ 154.01 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.060(5), the 2012 International Property Maintenance
Code, and subsequent amendments and future editions thereto, as published by
the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Independence, Kenton County, Kentucky for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures, by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the City of Independence are hereby referred to
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, prescribed in Section III of the
ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 2015-O-21, passed 9-14-15)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
   
155.02   Zoning map
   
155.03   Zoning administration fees
§ 155.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference as if fully set forth herein the zoning
code of the Kenton County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission, and any
subsequent amendments thereto which may be adopted by the city by ordinance.
(Ord. 1-10-83, passed 11-15-83; Am. Ord. 2-3-84, passed 3-27-84; Am. Ord. 1-11-
88, passed 11-8-88; Am. Ord. 2-6-89, passed 6-27-89; Am. Ord. 2-7-89, passed 7-
25-89; Am. Ord. 4-8-89, passed 9-12-89; Am. Ord. 1-9-89, passed 9-26-89; Am.
Ord. 1990-0-4, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1991-0-3, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 1996-0-26,
passed 12-20-96; Am. Ord. 1997-0-26, passed 11-11-97; Am. Ord. 1999-0-11,
passed 9-27-99; Am. Ord. 2000-0-03, passed 3-6-00; Am. Ord. 2000-0-11, passed
7-3-00; Am. Ord. 2000-0-18, passed 10-2-00; Am. Ord. 2001-0-02, passed 6-4-01;
Am. Ord. 2002-O-05, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 2002-O-07, passed 4-1-02; Am. Ord.
2002-O-10, passed 6-3-02; Am. Ord. 2002-O-18, passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord. 2003-O-
12, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2003-O-13, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2003-O-15,
passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 2003-O-16, passed 9-15-03; Am. Ord. 2004-O-26, passed
12-20- 04; Am. Ord. 2005-O-15, passed 6-20-05; Am. Ord. 2006-O-01, passed 1-23-
06; Am. Ord. 2006-O-03, passed 2-6-06; Am. Ord. 2006-O-16, passed 6-24-06; Am.
Ord. 2006-O-17, passed 7-24-06; Am. Ord. 2006-O-18, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord.
2007-O-03, passed 5-7-07; Am. Ord. 2007-O-11, passed 7-23- 07; Am. Ord. 2007-O-
16, passed 9-10-07; Am. Ord. 2008-O-01, passed 1-21-08; Am. Ord. 2008-O-08,
passed 9-8-08; Am. Ord. 2009-O-11, passed 8-3-09; Am. Ord. 2010-O-03, passed 2-
11-10; Am. Ord. 2010-O-13, passed 8-2-10; Am. Ord. 2010-O-15, passed 10-4-10;
Am. Ord. 2011-O-05, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord. 2011-O-06, passed 4-4-11; Am. Ord.
2011-O-18, passed 11-7-11; Am. Ord. 2012-O-08, passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2012-O-
09, passed 8-20-12; Am. Ord. 2012-O-15, passed 12-3-12; Am. Ord. 2014-O-01,
passed -1-13; Am. Ord. 2014-O-06, passed 6-3-13; Am. Ord. 2014-O-10, passed 10-
6-14; Am. Ord. 2015-O-01, passed 1-5-15; Am. Ord. 2015-O-16, passed 8-24-15;
Am. Ord. 2016-O-01, passed 1-4-16; Am. Ord. 2016-O-09, passed 8-15-16; Am. Ord.
2017-O-01, passed 3-6-17; Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 6-5-17; Am. Ord. 2018-O-
01, passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 2021-O-03, passed 3-1-21; Am. Ord. 2021-O-04,
passed 3-15-21; Am. Ord. 2021-O-08, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 2021-O-19, passed
10-4-21; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 2-7-22; Am. Ord. 2022-O-02, passed 4-4-22;
Am. Ord. 2022-O-04, passed 4-4-22; Am. Ord. 2023-O-05, passed 3-6-23; Am. Ord.
2023-O-17, passed 12-4-23; Am. Ord. 2024-O-02, passed 3-4-24; Am. Ord. 2024-O-
05, passed 5-6-24; Am. Ord. 2024-O-12, passed 11-11-24; Am. Ord. 2024-O-13,
passed 11-11-24; Am. Ord. 2025-O-03, passed 4-7-25; Am. Ord. 2025-O-16, passed
11-3-25)
§ 155.02 ZONING MAP.
   The city hereby adopts by reference as if fully set forth herein the zoning
map for the city, as created by the Kenton County and Municipal Planning and
Zoning Commission, and any subsequent amendments thereto which may be adopted
by the city by ordinance.
(Ord. 4-11-83, passed 12-13-83; Am. Ord. 1999-0-14, passed 11-1-99; Am. Ord.
2000-0-01, passed 1-3-00; Am. Ord. 2001-0-08, passed 8-21-01; Am. Ord. 2001-0-
09, passed 10-1-01; Am. Ord. 2021- O-19, passed 10-4-21; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 2-7-22)
Cross-reference:
   For zoning map changes adopted by the city, see
T.S.O. VI
§ 155.03 ZONING ADMINISTRATION FEES.
Zoning Administration Fees
Activity Fee
Zoning Administration Fees
Activity                     Fee
Zoning Permits                
   Commercial/industrial  $264
   Multi-family           $204
   Single-family          $136
   Two-family             $136
   Accessory structures/us$97
   Signs                  $130
Change of use                $97
Home occupations             $65
Board of Adjustments         $578
 
(Ord. 2014-O-11, passed 11-10-14)
                
Cross-reference:
   See Building Regulations,
Ch. 150
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   FRANCHISES
      
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VI.    ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VII.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
VIII.   VACATIONS
      
IX.   BOND ISSUES
      
X.   TAXATION
      
XI.   HUMAN RESOURCES
TABLE I. ACCEPTANCES AND DEDICATIONS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.  DATE    DESCRIPTION
1-1-66    1-19-66 Accepting Sylvan Drive
5-7-74    7-25-74 Accepting the following streets:
                  Adahi Drive
                  Adelene Drive
                  Alvin Drive
                  Apple Drive
                  Belle Drive
                  Carrie Way Drive
                  Cherokee Drive
                  Cherry Drive (near Apple)
                  Cherry Drive (Plantation Heights)
                  Clubhouse Drive
                  Court Street
                  Crowe Road
                  Dogwood Drive
                  Dorothy Drive
                  Elizabeth Drive
                  Far Hill Drive
                  Fleming Drive
                  Frontier Drive
                  Gary Drive
                  Kimberly Drive
                  Kimberly Place
                  Kleete Court
                  Locust Lane
                  Marilyn Drive
                  May-Flower Drive
                  Mayflower Place
                  McKim Drive
                  McMillan Drive
                  New Frontier (off Carrie Way)
                  Oby Drive
                  Paw Paw Drive
                  Peach Drive
                  Pearl Drive
                  Persimmon Drive
                  Persimmon Court
                  Ricky Lane
                  Roselawn Drive
                  St Francis Drive
                  Sassafras Drive
                  Scherry Drive
                  Shawnee Court
                  Sherwood Drive
                  Sidney Drive
                  Skyway Drive
                  Stevens Lane (near Russ England)
                  Sugar Camp Drive
                  Sugar Tree Drive
                  Sycamore Drive
                  Sylvan Drive
                  Walnut Hall Drive
                  Walnut Road
                  Wayman Drive
                  Wedgewood Drive
                  Willow Drive
5-12-76   12-9-76 Accepting Court Street
3-8-77    8-11-77 Accepting Paw Paw Drive
4-10-81   10-8-81 Accepting the following streets in Beechgrove Subdivision:
                  Alpine Court
                  Arbor Court
                  Ash Grove
                  Ashton Court
                  Aspen Drive
                  Beechgrove Drive
                  Birch Tree Lane
                  Birnam Drive
                  Boxwood Drive
                  Boxwood Lane
                  Boyne Court
                  Briarwood Drive
                  Catalpa Drive
                  Chestnut Court
                  Wildwood Drive
                  Woodcrest Drive
                  Woodknoll Drive
                  Woodmeadow Drive
                  Woodtop Court
2-5-82    6-10-82 Accepting the following streets:
                  Apple Lane
                  Archer Court
                  Arrow Court
                  Ashton Court
                  Bagby Lane
                  Berrywood Drive
                  Crowe Road
                  Flintlock Lane
                  Friar Tuck Lane
                  Gunstock Court
                  Hill-N-Dale Drive
                  Hunters Green Drive
                  Kimberly Court
                  Mayflower Court
                  Pathfinders Court
                  Pioneer Drive
                  Pointer Court
                  Rice Road
                  Rusconi Drive
                  St. Francis Court
                  Scenic Ridge Drive
                  Trappers Court
                  Valley Forge Lane
                  Wildwood Drive
                  Dedicating a 50' by 75' parcel of property located adjacent
1-11-87   10-1-01 to the physical terminus of Scherry Avenue as an unmaintained
                  and unimproved public right of way.
2004-O-20 9-13-04 Accepting Regal Ridge
 
TABLE II. ANNEXATIONS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.   DATE     DESCRIPTION
1- -59     9-21-59  Annexing certain territory in the Tilford Hills
                    Subdivision.
                    Annexing certain territory beginning at the southwest
1-3-63     3-20-63  corner of Lot 20, Block l; thence eastwardly along the
                    southern property line of Lots 20 to 67 inclusive l269
                    feet, more or less.
                    Annexing certain territory generally containing the New
1-4-64     4-15-64  Frontier Subdivision and other territory south of
                    Independence Station Road.
                    Annexing a 36.5 acre tract, being one-half of the Townsley
1-3-65     3-17-65  Estate property located on the west side of Madison Pike
                    opposite the intersection of Pelly Road.
1-6-66     6-2-66   Annexing the territory known as the Roberts Farm, beginning
                    at a point on McCullum Road.
                    Annexing certain territory bounded by Oliver Road, McCullum
3-8-68     8-15-68  Road, Taylor Mill Road, including the subdivision known as
                    Plantation Heights, Mills Road, Taylor Mill Highway, and
                    Cox Road.
                    Annexing certain territory beginning at a point being on
12-1-68            the northeast property line of William Frazier 263 feet,
                    more or less, southeast of the eastern right of way line of
                    Highway 17.
                    Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the east
1-2-73     2-8-73   right-of-way of Highway 17; thence continuing northwardly
                    along the east right-of- way line of Highway 17 to its
                    intersection with Richardson Road.
                    Beginning at a point on McCullum Road, said point being a
1-11-73    11-8-73  corner to the S.A. Roberts Farm and the Metcalf
                    Subdivision.
                    Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the
1-5-74     5-23-74  center line at the intersection of Richardson and Bristow
                    Roads; thence southwardly along the center line of Bristow
                    Road.
                    Annexing certain property beginning at a point in the west
4-3-74     3-28-74  right-of-way line of Oliver Road extended to the south
                    right-of-way line of Harris Pike.
                    Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the east
5-3-74     3-28-74  right-of-way line of Oliver Road as extended in a straight
                    line across McCullum Road to the northern right-of-way line
                    of McCullum Pike.
1-6-78     6-5-78   Annexing certain territory within the Villages of
                    Beechgrove Subdivision.
1-7-78     7-27-78  Annexing certain territory lying along the westerly
                    boundary of the city near Oby Drive.
1-12-78    12-14-78 Annexing certain territory owned by Richard W. and Phyliss
                    Wolsing, located on the northerly side of Richardson Road.
                    Annexing certain territory located to the east of Madison
2-12-78    12-14-78 Pike and to the west of Pelly Road and including the Scenic
                    Ridge Drive area.
                    (l) Annexing certain territory at a point in the center
3-6-78     6-22-78  line of Richardson Road, at a common corner to grantor and
                    William & Henrietta Endres.
                    (2) Annexing certain territory lying along the northerly
                  side of Richardson Road about l000 feet west of Bristow
                    Road.
                    Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the
6-6-78     6-22-78  north line of Richardson Road, said point being the
                    southwest corner of Covington Trust's l.00 acre tract.
1-10-78    10-26-78 Annexing certain territory generally known as Station 2 of
                    the Independence Community and Volunteer Fire Department.
1-10-79    10-25-79 Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the west
                    right-of-way of Taylor Mill Road near Mills Road.
1-12-79    12-13-79 Annexing certain territory located on the north side of
                    Klette Road and the east side of Taylor Mill Road.
                    Annexing certain territory located on the north side of
2-5-79     5-24-79  Richardson Road, the west side of Turkeyfoot Road, and the
                    south side of Industrial Road.
1-9-81     9-24-81  Annexing certain territory generally bounded by Cox Road,
                    Fowler Creek Road, Senour Road and Highway 16.
                    Annexing certain territory generally bounded by Industrial
2-9-81     9-24-81  Road, the Boone County Line, Richardson Road, and
                    Turkeyfoot Road.
2-11-83    12-13-83 Annexing the city of Ridgeview Heights.
1-11-84    12-11-84 Annexing certain property located on the southeast side of
                    Highway 16 and being Lot 1 of the Howard Subdivision.
1992-0-2   03-10-92 Annexing certain property consisting of 8.428 acres.
1992-0-3   3-10-92  Annexing certain property consisting of 4.474 acres near
                    Holton Drive.
1992-0-4   3-10-92  Annexing certain property located near Industrial Highway.
                    Annexing certain territory located along Taylor Mill Road
1994-0-23  9-27-94  and certain territory in the Shaw Estate Subdivision,
                    Section 1.
                    Annexing certain territory located generally on the
1994-0-24  9-27-94  southwest side of Bristow Road 0.1 miles north of Hogrefe
                    Road.
                    Proposing to annex certain territory located between
1995-0-8   6-27-95  Madison Pike (Kentucky 17) and Fowler Creek Road (Harvest
                    Hill Subdivision).
                    Proposing to annex approximately 81 acres of land at the
1995-0-18  10-10-95 northeast intersection of Madison Pike and Pelly Road
                    (Claiborne Farms).
                    Transferring from the City of Erlanger to the City of
1995-0-19  11-28-95 Independence 4.474 acres of land located on Richardson
                    Road, owned by Kossenjans and List.
                    Annexing approximately 81 acres of land at the northeast
1995-0-20  12-12-95 intersection of Madison Pike and Pelly Road (Liberty
                    Orchard Subdivision).
1996-0-1   1-23-96  Annexing certain property consisting of 1.21 acres on
                    Oliver Road.
1996-0-3   1-23-96  Annexing certain property consisting of 54.00 acres on
                    Marshall Road.
                    Annexing certain property consisting of 58.00 acres on
1996-0-6   3-12-96  Madison Pike and Pelly Road owned by Kenton County Board of
                    Education.
1996-0-12A 8-13-96  Annexing certain property consisting of .61 acres on Pelly
                    Road located in the Sunshine Subdivision.
                    Annexing certain property consisting of 0.172 acres on
1997-0-09  5-13-97  Pelly Road owned by Lee F. Bortscheller and LaVaughn
                    Bortscheller.
                    Annexing certain property consisting of 64.75 acres at the
1997-0-11  6-10-97  corner of Oliver and Fowler Creek Roads owned by Allen
                    Eugene Turner and Wanda Jean Turner.
                    Annexing certain property consisting of 0.0398 acres and
1997-0-12  7-22-97  3.4648 acres on Pelly Road owned by the Kenton County
                    School District Finance Corporation.
                    Annexing certain property consisting of approximately 0.663
1997-0-20  9-23-97  acres on Pelly Road owned by John R. Ivey and Bonny Ivey,
                    his daughter.
                    Annexing certain property consisting of 20,083 square feet
1999-0-07  7-12-99  and 20,010 square feet in the Sunshine subdivision owned by
                    Wayne H. Ferguson and Karen S. Ferguson.
                    Annexing certain unincorporated territory lying contiguous
2000-0-04  3-6-00   and adjacent to the city of Independence, to be developed
                    by Keeney Development, LLC as Manor Hill Subdivision.
                    Proposing to annex certain incorporated territories that
2002-O-04  3-4-02   lie outside the present city limits whose boundaries are
                    defined by the boundary lines of the city and
                    unincorporated Kenton County.
2002-O-09  6-3-02   Annexing certain unincorporated territory lying contiguous
                    and adjacent to the city.
2002-O-17  9-9-02   Annexing certain unincorporated territory lying contiguous
                    and adjacent to the city, 121 Pelly.
                    Annexing certain unincorporated territory lying contiguous
2002-O-20  10-7-02  and adjacent to the city, specifically two tracts of lands
                    on Bristow Road, 9.7433 acres and 22.7963 acres.
2004-O-17  9-13-04  Annexing the Mullins/Freedom Park, LLC property consisting
                    of approximately 56 acres.
                    Annexing the Freedom Park, LLC and Diversified Builders,
2004-O-27  12-20-04 Inc. property consisting of approximately 8.6 acres at
                    Freedom Trail and Madison Pike.
2006-O-06  3-20-06  De-annexing a part of the property located on the east side
                    of Madison Pike.
2006-O-08  5-15-06  De-annexing a part of the property located on the east side
                    of Madison Pike.
                    Intent to annex 22.53 acres, more or less, lying on the
2007-O-02  4-2-07   easterly side of relocated Kentucky Highway SR #17, South
                    of Pelly Road, and being the same property owned by the
                    Kenton County Fiscal Court.
2007-O-04  6-4-07   Intent to annex property known as 4545 Oliver Road owned by
                    Jump as Acquired.
2007-O-05  6-4-07   Intent to annex property known as 5106 Madison Pike owned
                    by the United States Postal Service.
                    Annexing 22.53 acres, more or less, lying on the easterly
2007-O-12  8-27-07  side of relocated Kentucky Highway SR #17, South of Pelly
                    Road and being owned by the Kenton County Fiscal Court.
2007-O-18  10-1-07  Annexing part of the territory known as 5106 Madison Pike
                    owned by the United States Post Office.
2007-O-19  10-1-07  Annexing territory known as 4545 Oliver Road owned by Jump
                    as Acquired.
2009-O-02  2-9-09   Annexing 53.267 acres, more or less, of property being the
                    right-of-way of relocated KY17 from Fowler Creek Road.
2009-O-09  6-1-09   Annexing 53.267 acres, more or less, of property being the
                    right-of-way of relocated KY-17 from Fowler Creek Road.
                    Requiring the annexation of real estate into the city prior
2012-O-01  1-9-12   to such real estate being permitted to access a city
                    street.
                    Repealing Ordinance No. 2013-O-2, which intended to annex
                    58.990 acres, more or less, lying on the easterly side of
2013-O-07  6-3-13   relocated Kentucky Highway SR #17, south of Maple Tree
                    Lane, and north of Taylor Mill Road at its intersection
                    with relocated Kentucky Highway SR #17.
                    Expressing intent to annex 46.225 acres, more or less, ling
2013-O-08  6-10-13  on the easterly side of relocated Kentucky Highway SR #17,
                    south of Maple Tree Lane and north of Taylor Mill Road at
                    its intersection with the relocated Highway SR #17.
                    Annexing 24.50 acres of land lying adjacent to the existing
2014-O-14  11-10-14 Reveres Crossing subdivision on the north side of Fowler
                    Creek by consent of the landowner, Reveres Crossing, LLC.
                    Annexing 46.225 acres, more or less, lying on the easterly
2014-O-15  12-1-14  side of relocated Kentucky Highway SR #17, south of Maple
                    Tree Lane and north of Taylor Mill Road at its intersection
                    with the relocated Highway SR #17.
                    Proposing to annex certain unincorporated territories
2015-O-25  12-7-15  within the County of Kenton, containing approximately 2.631
                    acres.
                    Pursuant to Ordinance 2015-O-25, annexing 2.631 acres
2019-O-07  12-2-19  located along the east side of Madison Pike (KY 17
                    Business), north of Patriot Way.
                    Annexing certain unincorporated territories within the
2020-O-10  11-9-20  County of Kenton, and contiguous to the present boundary
                    lines of the City of Independence, lying south of Hogrefe
                    Road and east of Blooming Court.
2021-O-07  4-5-21   Annexing unincorporated land, being a 100-acre plus parcel
                    located at 861 E. Mt. Zion Road, Independence.
                    Annexing unincorporated land, being approximately one acre,
2021-O-10  6-14-21  lying on the east side of Kentucky Highway 17 and on the
                    north side of Kentucky Highway 16.
2021-O-16  9-13-21  Annexing unincorporated land, being approximately one acre,
                    lying on the west side of Kentucky 563.
                   
 
TABLE III. CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.  DATE    DESCRIPTION
1-2-63    2-20-63 Authorizing the city to execute contracts with other
                  municipalities and counties.
4-5-78    5-25-78 Entering into an agreement with the Kenton County Cooperative
                  Purchasing Agreement parties.
                  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with the
4-6-78    6-8-78  Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission for professional
                  and technical services.
1-9-76    9-23-76 Contracting with the Union Light, Heat, and Power Company for
                  lighting the streets and other public ways of the city.
1995-0-17 9-26-95 Entering into an interlocal cooperation agreement creating
                  the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky.
                  Authorizing a credit for occupational license fees for a ten
                  (10) year period as stipulated in the service and technology
1996-0-11 6-25-96 agreement between Kentucky Jobs Development Authority and
                  Mazak Corporation equal to two tenths of one percent (.5%) on
                  wages of new Mazak employees.
                  Contracting with Finnel Real Estate to waive up to and
1996-0-12 6-25-96 including one hundred dollars ($100) tap-in-fees for the Shaw
                  Estates Subdivision.
1997-0-05 4-30-97 Authorizing five (5) year contract, with Rumpke for waste
                  collection services.
                  Authorizing second amendment to the interlocal cooperation
1997-0-28 12-9-97 agreement establishing the Telecommunications Board of
                  Northern Kentucky.
2021-O-13 6-14-21 Adopting an amended interlocal agreement for the Kenton
                  County Joint Code Enforcement Board.
                 
 
TABLE IV. FRANCHISES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.  DATE      DESCRIPTION
                    Accepting the bid of Citizens Telephone Company for the
1-12-67   1-11-67   right to erect and maintain a telephone, telegraph, and
                    general communications system.
1-8-84    9-14-84   Accepting the bid of Union Light, Heat and Power Company
                    for the right to furnish electric service.
1-2-87    2-10-87   Offering for sale a 20-year franchise to place gas
                    transmission and distribution facilities in the city.
1-3-87    3-24-87   Accepting the bid of Union Light, Heat and Power Company
                    for the right to furnish gas services under Ord. 1-2-87.
                    Providing for public bidding for a 20-year franchise to
1-5-88    5-24-88   erect and maintain a telephone and general communications
                    system.
1-5-88    5-24-88   Authorizing the public bidding of a franchise to erect and
                    maintain a telephone and general communications system.
                    Accepting the bid of Cincinnati Bell Telephone Company for
2-7-88    8-9-88    a 20-year franchise to erect and maintain a telephone and
                    general communications system.
1990-0-15 - -       Authorizing the public bidding of a franchise for
                    electrical energy.
                    Authorizing a 12 year non-exclusive franchise with TCI-TKR
1997-0-29 12-9-97   Cable of Northern Kentucky for construction, erection,
                    installation and operation of a cable television system.
                    Renewing the contract with Rumpke of Northern Kentucky for
2008-O-29 9-8-08    the exclusive right and privilege of collection of solid
                    waste.
                    Granting and issuing a competitive, non-exclusive franchise
2009-O-03 3-2-09    for a term of 12 years to and authorizing the execution of
                    the franchise agreement with Cincinnati Bell Extended
                    Territories, LLC.
                    Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive natural
2015-O-18 9-14-15   gas franchise for the placement of facilities for the
                    transmission, distribution and sale of natural gas.
                    Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive electric
2015-O-19 9-4-15    franchise for the placement of facilities for the
                    transmission, distribution and sale of electrical energy.
                    Awarding a non-exclusive franchise to Owen Electric Energy
2015-O-22 11-9-15   Kentucky for a term of ten (10) years for an electric
                    franchise.
2015-O-23 11-9-15   Awarding a non-exclusive franchise to Duke Energy Kentucky
                    for a term of ten (10) years for an electric franchise.
2015-O-24 11-9-15   Awarding a non-exclusive franchise to Duke Energy Kentucky
                    for a term of ten (10) years for a natural gas franchise.
2019-O-06 11-4-19   Awarding a non-exclusive franchise to MCI/Verizon for a
                    term of five (5) years for a telecommunications franchise.
                    Granting a non-exclusive franchise for a combined term of
2021-O-21 12-6-21   ten (10) years to Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC,
                    for a cable television services franchise.
                    Granting a competitive, non-exclusive franchise for a
2023-O-14 8-28-23   combined term of ten (10) years to Spectrum Mid-America,
                    LLC, for a cable television services franchise.
                    Creating and establishing for bid a non-exclusive natural
                    gas franchise for the placement of facilities for the
2025-O-08 6-2-25  transmission, distribution and sale of natural gas within
                    the public right-of-way of the City of Independence for a
                    ten year duration.
                    Confirming the sale and awarding a non-exclusive franchise
2025-O-10 9-8-25  to Duke Energy Kentucky Inc. for a term of ten years for
                    natural gas franchise.
                    Confirming the sale and awarding a non-exclusive franchise
2025-O-11 9-8-25  to Duke Energy Kentucky Inc. for a term of ten years for
                    electric franchise.
                    Confirming the sale and awarding a non-exclusive franchise
2025-O-12 9-8-25  to Owen Electric Cooperative Inc. for a term of ten years
                    for electric franchise.
                   
 
TABLE V. STREET NAME CHANGES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD.  DATE DESCRIPTION
NO.
1-11- 11-
77    10-  The street designated as Cherry Drive shall be known as Sycamore Drive.
      77
3-3-  3-
78    23-  The street designated as New Frontier Drive shall be known as Pioneer Drive.
      78
2013- 10-  Changing the name of Stevens Drive, a dead end street, located on the west
O-13  7-13 side of KY-17 across from the Independence Cemetery, to England Drive.
2014- 8-4- Changing the name of Rice Road, a dead end street, located on the north side
O-07  14   of Mills Road at its intersection with Ashford Road, to Coppage Court.
2015- 8-   Renaming that portion of Centennial Boulevard that intersects between
O-15  24-  Declaration Drive and Madison Pike (17X) as “Richard Wainscott Way”.
      15
2018- 9-   Clarifying the name of the road that runs west to east from Madison Pike to
O-10  10-  Kentucky Highway 536 (also known as Taylor Mill Road), and naming it “Harris
      18   Pike.”
2025- 3-3- Renaming Court Street Ponzer Court.
O-02  25
          
 
TABLE VI. ZONING MAP CHANGES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.  DATE      DESCRIPTION
                    Zoning property in Ridgeview Heights as it existed prior to
3-3-84    4-10-84   its annexation into the city, all in accordance with the
                    Kenton County and Municipal Planning and Zoning
                    Commissions.
1-1-86    1-18-86   Rezoning property located on the west side of Madison Pike
                    south of and adjacent to the Kenton Elementary School.
                    Rezoning an 11.83 acre tract located on the north side of
2-1-87    1-27-87   Richardson Road between Thomas Drive and Circlewood Drive
                    from R-1C to R-3.
2-1-88    2-9-88    Rezoning a 57 acre tract located west of Madison Pike and
                    Far Hills Drive from R-1A and R-1C to R-RE.
                    Rezoning area 1 of The Villages of Beechgrove from R-2
1-4-88    5-10-88   (PUD) to R-1C and amending the development plan to provide
                    certain conditions.
3-6-89    6-27-89   Rezoning an approximate 5.1 acre tract located west of
                    Madison Pike from R-1C and R-1D to R-1DD.
4-6-89    6-27-89   Rezoning a 2.5 acre tract located on the north side of
                    Banklick Road from R-1C and R-1D to NC.
1991-0-8  9-10-91   Rezoning a 5 acre tract located near Industrial Road and
                    Turkeyfoot Road from IP to R-1B.
1992-0-12 10-27-92  Rezoning an approximate 144 acre site on Madison Pike from
                    R-1A and R-1C to R-1D subject to certain conditions.
1993-0-4  4-27-93   Rezoning an approximate 24 acre site on Banklick Station
                    Road from R-1C to R-1DD subject to certain conditions.
                    Rezoning an approximate 2.4 acre site located on Banklick
1993-0-9  8-10-93   Station Road from NC to R-1DD subject to certain
                    conditions.
                    Rezoning an approximate 24 acre site on Banklick Station
1994-0-8  4-26-94   Road from R-1C to R-1DD subject to certain conditions and
                    repealing Ord. 1993-0-4.
                    Rezoning an approximate 144 acre site on Madison Pike from
1994-0-10 4-26-94   R-1A and R-1C to R-1D subject to certain conditions and
                    repealing Ord. 1992-0-12.
                    Rezoning an approximate 1.5 acre area located at the
1995-0-1  1-10-95   southwest intersection of Turkeyfoot and Industrial Roads
                    from R-3 to NC.
                    Rezoning JTJ Development Property consisting of 40.39 acres
1995-0-9  7-11-95   and lying to the south of Far Hills Drive and west of
                    Madison Pike from R-RE to R-1C.
1996-0-17 10-8-96   Rezoning an approximate 39 acre site on the southeast side
                    of Pelly Road from R-1C and R-1D to R-1C.
                    Approving the stage I development plan subject to certain
1996-0-18 10-8-96   conditions for a 50 acre area located on the north side of
                    Shaw Road west of Madison Pike currently zoned R-
                    2 submitted by Independence Town Center, L.L.C.
                    Denying proposed map amendment from R-1B to R-3 for an
                    approximate 1 acre area located on the west side of Thomas
1997-0-7  4-22-97   Drive, between Richardson Road and Florence Drive,
                    approximately 1000 feet north of the intersection of Thomas
                    Drive and Richardson Road owned by William J. Unkraut.
                    Denying proposed map amendment from R-1C to RC for an
                    approximate 8 acre area located at 11525 Madison Pike (Ky.
1997-0-8  5-13-97   State Route #17) on the east side, approximately 800 feet
                    north of the intersection of Maple Tree Lane and Madison
                    Pike, proposed by Ted Davidson.
                    Approving the Stage II Development Plan for Bristow Meadows
1998-0-03 4-14-98   Subdivision, at the southwest corner of the intersection of
                    Bristow Road with Beechgrove Drive.
                    Rezoning an approximate 38.4 acre area located at the
1999-0-14 11-1-99   terminus of Lakearbor Drive in the Lakefield subdivision
                    off Taylor Mill Road from R-1C and R-1D to R-1D with added
                    conditions.
2000-0-01 1-3-00    Rezoning an approximate 53 acres to be known as Manor Hill
                    Subdivision from R-1B to R-1C (PUD) with added conditions.
                    Rezoning approximately 4.3 acres located along the East
2001-0-08 8-21-01   side of Turkeyfoot Road between Industrial Road and the
                    corporate limits of the city from R-1B to IP.
                    Rezoning an area of approximately 77 acres located along
2001-0-09 10-1-01   the East side of Fowler Creek Road, between Senour Road and
                    Cox Road, approximately 3,000 feet (.6 miles) South of
                    Senour Road from R-1A and R-1C to R-1D.
                    Rezoning an (area A) approximately 84-acre area located
                    along the south side of Bristow Road, 2,700 feet east of
                    Banklick Road from R-1C to R-1C; (Area B) an approximate
                    54- acre area located at the northeast corner of the
                    intersection of Banklick Road with Maher Road from A-1 and
2002-O-08 6-3-02    R-RE to R-1D; (Area C) approximate 72-acre area located
                    along the north side of Maher road, across from Gaven Road
                    from A-1 and R-RE to R-1D; (Area D) an approximate 59-acre
                    area located along the south side of Hogreffe Road,
                    approximately 1,800 feet west of the new Hogreffe Connector
                    Road, from A-1 and R-1B to R-1D.
                    Rezoning an approximate 137.5-acre area located along the
2002-O-13 7-1-02    northeast side of Mills Road, approximately 2,400 feet
                    northwest of Marshall Road, and along the northwest side of
                    Marshall Road from R-RE to R-1C.
                    Rezoning an approximate 5.4-acre area located at the
2002-O-19 9-9-02    southwest corner of the intersection of Richardson Road
                    with Old Richardson Road, from R-1A to RC-2.
                    Changing an approximate 130-acre area located at the
2003-O-07 7-7-03    terminus of Hogreffe Road from A-1, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D, and
                    I-1 to R-1D (PUD), with conditions.
                    Changing an approximate 12.7-acre area located at the
2003-O-09 7-21-03   southwest corner of the intersection of Senour Road with
                    Mohawk Lane from R-1C to R-1D, with a certain condition.
                    Changing the acreage in question located off Independence
2003-O-11 8-4-03    Station Road and lying between Far Hills Drive and Fleming
                    Drive, from R-1A to R-1C, with certain conditions.
                    Changing the area located on the east side of Madison Pike
2004-O-02 1-5-04    between Klette Court and Millcreek Circle, from R-1C to NC,
                    subject to two conditions.
                    Changing an approximate 65-acre area located 600 feet south
2004-O-03 4-5-04    of Senour Road between Cloverridge Drive and Fowler Creek
                    from R-1C and R-1C(RCD) to R-1C(PUD).
                    Changing an approximate 170-acre area located along the
2004-O-15 9-13-04   south side of Independence Station Road between Webster
                    Road and Cody Road, approximately 800 feet west of Webster
                    Road from R-1C to R-1C(PUD), with certain conditions.
                    Changing an approximate 56-acre area located along the east
2004-O-16 9-13-04   side of Wilson Road and between Shaw Road and Bramlage
                    Road, approximately 1,500 feet north of Bramlage Road, from
                    R-1C and R-1B to R-1D.
                    Changing an approximate 26-acre area located along the east
2004-O-25 12-20-04  side of Madison Pike, between Walnut Hall Drive and Harris
                    Pike, approximately 200 feet south of Walnut Hall Drive,
                    from R-1C to R-2(PUD), with certain conditions.
                    Changing an approximate 88-acre area located along the east
2005-O-02 3-7-05    side of Fowler Creek Road, between Sycamore Creek Drive and
                    Cox Road, approximately 1,400 feet south of Sycamore Creek
                    Drive, from R-1A and R-1C to R-1D, with certain conditions.
                    Changing an approximate .2-acre area located along the east
                    side of Madison Pike, between Klette Street and Hartland
                    Blvd., approximately 500 feet south of Klette Street, from
2005-O-03 4-4-05    R-IC to NC. along with the review of an amended Stage I
                    Development Plan for Area B, and approximate .3-acre area
                    located approximately 450 feet south of Klette Street, with
                    certain conditions.
2005-O-05 4-4-05    Adding shooting range (indoor only) as a permitted use in
                    the RC-2 Zone.
                    Changing an approximate 50-acre area located along the
2005-O-08 5-2-05    south side of Cody Road, between the CSX Railroad and Upton
                    Drive, approximately 500 feet west of Upton Drive, from R-
                    IC to R- 1C(PUD), with certain conditions.
                    Changing an approximate .50-acre area located along the
                    east side of Madison Pike, between Harris Road and Walnut
2005-O-20 7-11-05   Hall, approximately 500 feet north of Harris Road, from R-
                    IC to R-2(PUD), an amended Stage I Development Plan, with
                    certain conditions.
                    Changing an approximate 25-acre area located at the
2006-O-02 1-23-06   northeast and southeast corner of the intersection of
                    Madison Pike and Harris Pike from R-IC to NC, with certain
                    conditions.
                    Changing an approximate 63-acre area located along the
2006-O-11 6-19-06   north side of Mount Zion Road, approximately 800 feet west
                    of Bristow Road, from R-1C to R-IC(PUD), with certain
                    conditions.
2006-O-13 6-19-06   Changing an area from R-1C to R-1D, with certain
                    conditions.
                    Changing an approximate 30-acre area located on the east
2007-O-13 8-27-07   side of Turkeyfoot Road, across from Industrial Road, from
                    R-1B, R-1C and R-3 to an NC Zone.
                    Changing an approximate 4-acre area located approximately
2007-O-20 11-5-07   500 feet east of the terminus of Apple Valley Drive from R-
                    1EE to R-2(PUD).
                    Changing an approximate 11-acre area located at the
2009-O-05 5-4-09    northeast and southeast corners of the intersection of
                    Turkeyfoot Road with Richardson Road from R-1C and R-3 to
                    NC.
                    Changing an approximate 13.3 acre area located at the
2010-O-02 2-11-10   Northwest Corner of the intersection of Madison Pike with
                    Centennial Boulevard from R-2 (PUD) to R-3 (PUD).
                    Amending the conditions set forth in Ord. 2004-O-15 under
2011-O-15 8-1-11    which a zoning change of 170 acres from R-1C to R-1C (PUD)
                    is permitted.
                    Changing an approximate 116 acre area located along the
2012-O-10 8-20-12   north and south sides of McCullum Pike between Madison Pike
                    and KY-17 from R-1C, R-1D, and NC to R-1C (CD-SF), R-1D
                    (CD-SF), and NC (CD-SF) zones.
                    Changing an approximate 60 acre area located along the east
2012-O-11 8-20-12   and west sides on Madison Pike between Independence Station
                    Road and Locust Road from R-1C, R-1D, and NC to DI
                    (downtown independence) zone.
                    Changing an approximate 42-acre area located on the
2012-O-16 12-3-12   northwest and southwest corners of the intersection of
                    McCullum Pike with KY-17, from R-1C and R-1D to GMU
                    (gateway mixed use) zone.
                    Changing an area of approximately 45 acres located to the
2016-O-02 6-6-16    northeast of the intersection of Cox Road with Fowler Creek
                    Road from R-1C to R-1D.
                    Changing an area of approximately two acres located at the
                    Terminus of Ashford Road, approximately 200 feet northeast
2017-O-08 7-3-17    of the intersection of Ashford Road with Limerick Circle
                    from R-RE (a low-density residential zone) to R-1C (a
                    suburban residential zone).
                    Changing an area consisting of four partial lots at the end
2018-O-02 2-5-18    of Boston Lane from R-1A (a low-density single-family
                    residential zone) to R-1C (a moderate density suburban
                    single-family residential zone).
                    Changing an area of approximately five acres, located on
                    the northeast and southeast corners of the intersection of
2019-O-08 12-16-19  Independence Station Road with Turkeyfoot Road, from R-1D
                    (suburban single-family zone) to NC (neighborhood
                    commercial zone).
                    Changing an approximate 170-acre area located along the
2020-O-09 11-9-20   south side of Independence Station Road between Webster
                    Road and Cody Road, approximately 800 feet west of Webster
                    Road, from R-1C to R-1C(PUD).
2021-O-02 2-1-21  Changing an area of approximately 4.12 acres of the
                    Glenhurst Subdivision from A-1 to R-1D.
                    Changing an area of approximately 108 acres, located on the
2021-O-06 4-5-21    south side of Mt. Zion Road between Bristow Road to the
                    east and Dixie Highway to the west, to be zoned IP.
                    Changing an area of approximately 29.41 acres, located at
2021-O-09 6-14-21   the northeast corner of the intersection of Taylor Mill
                    Road (Kentucky Highway 16) and Madison Pike (Kentucky
                    Highway 17), from R-1B to R-2.
                    mending Ordinance 2021-O-09, for an area of approximately
2023-O-06 3-6-23    35 acres located at the northeast corner of the
                    intersection of Taylor Mill Road (Kentucky Highway 16) and
                    Madison Pike (Kentucky Highway 17).
                    Changing an area of approximately 19.93 acres, located at
2023-O-16 11-13-23  the northeast intersection of Madison Pike (Kentucky
                    Highway 17) and Harris Pike (Kentucky Highway 536), from NC
                    and R-RE to CC.
2023-O-18 12-4-23   Changing 4290 Richardson Road, an area of approximately 9.3
                    acres, from GI to SI.
                    Changing 5298 Madison Pike, 5306 Madison Pike, 5306 Chateau
2024-O-06 6-3-24  Court, 5308 Chateau Court, and 0.5 acres at the terminus of
                    Chateau Court, a total area of approximately 9.3 acres,
                    from PUD, R-CVS and RM to PUD.
                    Changing the described area of 43.25 acres located at the
                    terminus of Freedom Trail, east of Wilson Road between Shaw
2025-O-15 11-3-25   Road to the north and Bramlage Road to the south,
                    approximately 1,800 feet north of Bramlage Road from R-CVS
                    to R-CPS.
                   
 
TABLE VII. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.   DATE     DESCRIPTION
1-3-88     3-22-88  Levying a special assessment for sewer improvement against
                    certain property owners.
2-3-88     3-22-88  Levying a special assessment for water services on Harris
                    Pike from Madison Pike to Taylor Mill Road.
1-8-88     8-23-88  Levying special assessments for water improvements on
                    Independence-Banklick Station Road.
                    Levying special assessments for water improvements in the
2-8-88     8-23-88  Ridgeview Heights subdivision and authorizing the
                    improvements.
6-6-89     7-11-89  Levying special assessments for sewer improvements on
                    Bristow Road.
1990-0-8   4-10-90  Levying special assessments against certain property owners
                    for water system improvement.
1991-0-2   - -      Levying special assessments against property owners for
                    sewer improvements on Bristow Road.
1991-0-5   5-14-91  Levying special assessments against certain property owners
                    for sewer improvements in the central business district.
1992-0-11  10-13-93 Levying special assessments against certain property owners
                    along Crowe Road for water improvements.
1993-0-3   4-13-93  Reducing a special assessment for debt reduction for
                    property owners.
1994-0-7   4-26-94  Levying a special assessment against certain property
                    owners on Crowe Road for water improvements.
1994-0-18A 8-9-94   Reducing a special assessment for debt reduction for
                    property owners and repeals Ord. 1993-0-3.
2001-0-11  8-21-01  Amending procedures for repayment of debt in connection
                    with the Fowler Creek sewer.
                    Amending Ord. 2001-O-11 regarding the time of periodic
2008-O-11  9-8-08   payments of the debt reduction schedule in connection with
                    the Fowler Creek sewer.
                   
 
TABLE VIII. VACATIONS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD.  DATE DESCRIPTION
NO.
1-8-  - -  Closing all of Supreme Court at its intersection with Appeals Court.
89
1991- 10-  Closing Hall Court, Fleming Court, Milton and a portion of Fleming Drive
0-9A  8-91 located in the Hillcrest Acres Subdivision.
1996- 1-   Closing a portion of Regal Ridge Drive located in the Lakefield
0-2   23-  Subdivision.
      96
2007- 6-4- Closing a portion of Apple Drive owned by the James D. Grubbs Trust and
O-07  07   Grubbs Properties, LLC.
2007- 7-2- Closing a portion of Jimae Court owned by Frederick Garnett, Sara Clayton,
O-10  07   and HRC LTD.
2010- 2-
O-04  11-  Closing a portion of Lily Drive.
      10
2017- 7-3- Closing a platted “proposed street” at the end of the paved portion of
O-09  17   Ashford Road.
          
 
TABLE IX. BOND ISSUES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.   DATE     DESCRIPTION
                    Authorizing issuance of "Special Assessment Revenue Bond
1990-0-2   1-23-90  anticipation notes, 1990 Series A" for construction of
                    improvements to the water and sewer systems.
                    Authorizing issuance of "Water and Sewer Special Assessment
1990-0-3   1-23-90  Bonds, Series 1995" for construction of improvements to the
                    water and sewer system.
                    Authorizing issuance of "Sewer Revenue Bonds and
1991-0-4   4-23-91  Anticipation Notes, Series 1991" to finance sewer
                    improvements.
                    Authorizing issuance of the "Sanitary Sewerage System
1991-0-10  6-5-91   Revenue Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1991A" for
                    improvements to the sanitary sewer system.
                    Authorizing the issuance of the "Sanitary Sewerage System
1991-0-11  8-9-91   Revenue Bonds, Series 1996" for improvements to the
                    sanitary sewerage system.
                    Authorizing issuance of the "Sanitary Sewerage System
1994-0-3   4-4-94   Revenue Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 1994" for
                    improvements to the sanitary sewerage system.
                    Authorizing issuance of the "Sanitary Sewerage System
1994-0.4-1 4-4-94   Revenue Bond Anticipation Notes, Series 2003" for
                    improvements to the sanitary sewerage system.
1994-0-15  7-12-94  Authorizing issuance of $1,000,000 in "Industrial Building
                    Revenue Bonds, Series 1994" to assist LSI Industries, Inc.
1994-0-29  12-13-94 Authorizing issuance of $1,250,000 in Industrial Building
                    Revenue Bonds, Series 1995 to assist LSI Industries, Inc.
                    Authorizing issuance of $5,000,000, General Obligation
2003-O-02  2-24-03  Public Project Refunding Bonds, to refund and retire the
                    outstanding principal amount on $5,000,000.
                    Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Refunding
2012-O-07  8-20-12  Bonds, Series 2012, in the amount of $4,170,000 to refund
                    the outstanding principal amount of General Obligation
                    Public Project Refunding Bonds, Series 2003.
                    Authorizing the issuance of $2,400,000 General Obligation
2012-O-17  12-10-12 Refunding Notes, to refund the outstanding principal amount
                    of General Obligation Improvement Bonds, Series 1998.
 
TABLE X: TAXATION
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.  DATE    DESCRIPTION
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.1550 per
2000-0-15 9-11-00 $100.00 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all
                  personal property other than motor vehicles at $0.1810 per
                  $100.00 assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.1470 per
2001-0-16 9-13-01 $100.00 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all
                  personal property other than motor vehicles at $0.205 per
                  $100.00 assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.156 per $100.00
2002-O-16 9-9-02  assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.317 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.169 per $100.00
2003-O-17 9-15-03 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.465 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.184 per $100.00
2004-O-22 9-20-04 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.615 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.177 per $100.00
2005-O-22 9-12-05 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.578 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.177 per $100.00
2006-O-20 9-18-06 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.578 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.186 per $100.00
2007-O-15 9-10-07 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.575 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.200 per $100.00
2008-O-10 9-8-08  assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.596 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.200 per $100.00
2009-O-12 9-14-09 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.596 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.200 per $100.00
2010-O-14 9-13-10 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.596 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.215 per $100.00
2011-O-16 9-12-11 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.596 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.237 per $100.00
2012-O-13 9-10-12 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.656 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.237 per $100.00
2013-O-12 9-9-13  assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.656 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.237 per $100.00
2014-O-08 9-12-14 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.656 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.254 per $100.00
2015-O-17 9-14-15 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.642 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.271 per $100.00
2017-O-11 9-11-17 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.642 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.271 per $100.00
2018-O-11 9-10-18 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.642 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.271 per $100.00
2019-O-05 9-16-19 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.642 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.271 per $100.00
2020-O-07 10-5-20 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.634 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.244 per $100.00
2021-O-17 9-13-21 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.595 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Providing for a one-time 10% reduction off real estate
2021-O-18 9-13-21 property tax bills issued in October 2021 and paid prior to
                  December 31, 2021.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.22 per $100.00
2022-O-10 9-12-22 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.534 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.22 per $100.00
2023-O-15 9-18-23 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.534 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.22 per $100.00
2024-O-10 9-18-24 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.534 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                  Levying ad valorem tax on real property at $0.194 per $100.00
2025-O-13 9-15-25 assessed valuation; levying ad valorem tax on all personal
                  property other than motor vehicles at $0.534 per $100.00
                  assessed valuation.
                 
 
TABLE XI HUMAN RESOURCES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.  DATE      DESCRIPTION
2000-0-12 8-7-00    Providing for a City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator.
2000-0-13 8-7-00    Providing for the repeal of certain job descriptions for
                    certain non-elected city offices.
2000-0-14 8-7-00    Providing for the adoption of certain job descriptions for
                    non-elected city offices.
2001-0-01 3-5-01    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2001-0-04 6-4-01    Creating the position of Citation Officer.
2001-0-13 9-10-01   Creating the position of Assistant Police Chief.
2001-0-14 9-10-01   Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2001-0-17 12-3-01   Creating the position of Emergency Operations Director.
2002-O-02 1-7-02    Creating the position of Senior Citizen Center Director.
2002-O-03 1-7-02    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2002-O-12 6-3-02    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2003-O-10 7-21-03   Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2004-O-12 6-7-04    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2004-O-18 9-13-04   Creating the position of part-time Building Custodian.
2004-O-19 9-13-04   Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2005-O-16 6-20-05   Creating the position of Public Services Director.
2005-O-17 6-20-05   Enacting a personnel pay and classification plan.
2006-O-15 6-19-06   Enacting a personnel pay and classification plan.
2007-O-09 6-4-07    Enacting a personnel pay and classification plan.
2008-O-05 5-13-08   Creating a position of Director of Economic Development and
                    Planning.
2008-O-06 5-13-08   Enacting a personnel pay and classification plan.
2009-O-10 6-1-09    Enacting a personnel pay and classification plan.
2010-O-12 6-7-10    Enacting a personnel pay and classification plan.
2011-O-14 7-11-11   Enacting a personnel pay and classification plan.
2012-O-05 6-4-12    Enacting a personnel pay and classification plan.
2013-O-05 5-13-13   Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2014-O-05 6-2-14    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2015-O-13 6-1-15    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2016-O-05 6-6-16    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2017-O-06 6-5-17    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2018-O-06 6-18-18   Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2018-O-13 9-10-18   Amending the pay plan adding the position of part-time
                    office assistant.
2019-O-04 6-17-19   Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2020-O-05 6-22-20   Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2021-O-12 6-14-21   Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
                    Amending the personnel and pay classification plan by
2022-O-03 4-4-22    adding the position of program coordinator and expanding
                    the responsibilities of the senior center director.
2022-O-07 6-6-22  Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2023-O-02 2-6-23    Enacting a personnel and pay classification plan.
2023-O-11 6-5-23  Amending Ordinance No. 2023-O-02 which enacts a personnel
                    and pay classification plan.
2023-O-13 8-28-23   Amending Ordinance No. 2023-O-11, concerning a personnel
                    and pay classification plan.
2024-O-09 6-3-24    Amending Ordinance No. 2023-O-11, concerning a personnel
                    and pay classification plan.
2024-O-11 10-7-24   Amending Ordinance No. 2024-O-09, concerning a personnel
                    and pay classification plan.
2025-O-07 6-2-25  Amending Ordinance No. 2024-O-11, concerning personnel and
                    pay classification plan.
2025-O-14 10-6-25   Amending Ordinance No. 2025-O-07, concerning personnel and
                    pay classification plan.
                   
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
References to Municipal Orders
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Section 181, Ky. Const. 110.01
Section 228, Ky. Const. 31.01(A),
                        35.25(B)(2)
Section 246, Ky. Const. 31.03(A)
6.955 - 6.975           33.04(A)(2), (C)
Ch. 13A                 92.02
Ch. 13B                 92.05
15.310 et seq.          35.27
16.220                  72.21
Ch. 31               34.12
41.240                  33.37
41.240(4)               33.32
43.050                  33.04
Ch. 45A                 34.12,
                        34A.05
Ch. 56                  34.12,
                        34A.05
61.168                  34.12
61.169                  34.12
61.252                  32.21
61.525                  32.21
61.805(1)               34A.01
61.805(2)               34.01,
                        34A.01
61.805(3)               34A.01
61.805(4)               34A.01
61.805(5)               34A.01
61.805 - 61.850         32.21,
                        34A.10
                        32.21,
61.810                  32.26,
                        34A.05
61.815                  32.21,
                        34A.06
                        32.21,
61.820                  34A.07,
                        34A.09
61.823                  34A.08,
                        34A.09
61.823(2) - (4)         95.15
61.823(4)               34A.09
61.823(5)               32.21
61.826                  34A.09
61.840                  32.21,
                        34A.09
61.846                  34A.10
61.848                  34A.10
61.870                  34.01
61.870 - 61.882         31.37
61.870 - 61.884         38.44
61.870(10)              34.05
61.872 - 61.884         38.15
61.872(1)               34.05
61.872(2)               34.05
61.872(3)               34.05
61.872(4)               34.06
61.872(5)               34.07
61.872(6)               34.08
61.874(2)(a),(b)        34.05
61.874(4)               34.05
61.874(5)               34.05
61.874(6)               34.05
61.876                  34.05
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.12
61.878(1)(m)            34A.05
61.880                  34.09
61.880(1)               34.09 ,
                        34.12
61.882                  34.09
61.884                  34.11
Ch. 62                  31.01
62.020                  31.01
Ch. 65                  31.02
65.003                  38.40
65.210 et seq.          38.40
65.238                  38.01
                        35.70,
                        35.80,
65.8801 to 65.8839      35.84,
                        93.01,
                        93.06,
                        93.30
65.8801 et seq.         93.06
65.8808(2)(b)           110.99
65.8808(2)(c)           110.99
65.8811                 35.71
65.8811(1)(b)           35.71
65.8811(1)(b)           35.70
65.8836                 35.81
66.480               33.25
67.592                  90.04
67.750 - 67.795         110.25
67.753                  110.27
67.753(2)               110.27
67.753(3)               110.27
67.753(4)               110.27
81A.010                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
82.082                  38.01,
                        110.01
82.625                  72.20
Ch. 83A                 32.21
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(7)              10.02,
                        32.23
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.010(9)              10.02,
                        32.23
83A.010(10)             10.02
83A.010(11)             10.02,
                        32.23
83A.030(1)              30.02(B)
83A.040                 32.21
83A.040(1),(2)          31.21
83A.040(2)(c)           31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21,
                        32.01
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              31.21,
                        32.01
83A.040(6)              32.02
83A.040(7)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(9)              31.04,
                        32.21
83A.045(2)(b)           31.20
83A.050                 31.20
83A.050(2)              32.21
83A.050(5)              154.01
83A.060                 32.23
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4)              32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(7)              32.23,
                        32.38
83A.060(8)              32.41,
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             32.45
83A.060(12)             32.46
83A.060(13)             32.23
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.065                 10.02,
                        10.99
83A.065(2)              116.99
83A.070(3)              31.03
83A.075                 31.03
83A.080                 38.02
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.04,
                        31.35
83A.080(3),(4)          31.20
83A.100                 32.21
83A.130                 32.21
                        30.01,
83A.130(1)              30.02(B),
                        32.21
83A.130(2)              30.02(A)
83A.130(3)              31.21
83A.130(4)              31.21
83A.130(7)              32.21
83A.130(7) - (10)       31.21
83A.130(10)             32.21
83A.130(11)             32.03(A),
                        32.21
83A.130(12)             32.03(B), (C)
83A.130(13)             32.03(D)
83A.140(7)              32.21
83A.150(4)              32.21
83A.165                 31.20
83A.175                 32.02
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(6)              33.01
91A.010(7)              33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.041                 33.04(J)
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.200                 33.11(A)
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
92.280                  110.01
92.281                  110.01
Ch. 118                 31.20
132.285                 37.01
151.250                 152.03
174.100                 95.15
174.100(1)              95.16,
                        95.17
174.100(2)              95.17
174.100(3)              95.18
174.100(4)              95.19
174.100(5)              95.20
177.910 - 177.950       93.19
                        70.67,
186.020                 72.16 ,
                        72.21 , 
                        93.06
186.050                 70.67
186A.145                72.21
186A.190                72.21
Ch. 189                 70.66
189.010                 93.06
189.010(19)             70.01
189.020                 71.27
189.286                 70.65,
                        70.66
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.378                 71.35
189.378(1)              70.01
189.450(5) - (7)        72.03
189.580                 71.15
189.635(9)(b)1.a. to e. 34.01
189.700                 71.40
189.751                 90.04
189.820                 70.66
189.910                 71.35
189.920                 71.35
189.930                 71.26
189.990(1)              72.99
189.993(8)              71.99(B)
190.010(8)              93.19
196.099                 34.01
Chapter 198B            150.01,
                        150.17
198B.010(5)             150.01
198B.990(1)             150.99(A)
218A.050 - 218A.130     116.14
224.20 - 224.720        70.67
226.010                 113.01
226.020                 113.02
226.030                 113.07
226.040                 113.03(A) - (C)
226.050                 113.04
226.060                 113.08
226.070                 113.03(D)
226.080                 113.05
226.090                 113.06
226.100                 113.08
226.990(1)              113.99
227.550                 93.19
227.550(12)             93.06
227.700                 92.01(A)
227.702                 92.01(B)
227.704                 92.01(C)
227.706                 92.01(D)
227.708                 92.01(E)
227.710                 92.02
227.715                 92.02
227.720                 92.03
227.730                 92.04
227.740                 92.04
227.750                 92.05
227.990(1)              150.99(B)
227.990(4)              92.99(A)
Ch. 242                 116.01
243.070                 116.03
244.290(6)              116.09
281.011                 93.19
281.605(12)             72.21
281.920 - 281.936       72.21
281.926                 72.21
281.928                 72.21
281.928(1)              72.21
281.932                 72.21
304.39 - 304.080        70.66
309.350 et seq.         115.02
318.990                 150.99(C)
359.230                 72.21
376.275                 72.21
376.275(1), (2)         72.21
376.275(3), (4)         72.22
381.770                 93.17
                        33.04,
Ch. 424                 33.15,
                        115.10
424.120                 33.04(E)
424.190(2)              33.04(H)
424.220                 33.04
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03(A)
446.020(2)              10.03(B)
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03(C)
446.080(3)              10.03(D)
446.080(4)              10.03(E)
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
520.010                 34.01
                        10.02,
532.090(1)              110.99,
                        116.99,
                        131.99
                        10.02,
534.040(2)(a)           116.99,
                        131.99
534.040(2)(c)           10.02
534.050(2)(a)           110.99
Ch. 600-645             131.05
610.200-610.280         131.05
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
ORD NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION CODE SECTION
ORD NO.     DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION                          CODE SECTION
1- -59      9-21-59                                         T.S.O. II
1-2-63      2-20-63                                         T.S.O. III
1-3-63      3-20-63                                         T.S.O. II
1-4-64      4-15-64                                         T.S.O. II
1-3-65      3-17-65                                         T.S.O. II
1-1-66      1-19-66                                         T.S.O. I
1-6-66      6-2-66                                          T.S.O. II
1-12-67     1-11-67                                         T.S.O. IV
3-8-68      8-15-68                                         T.S.O. II
4-1-68      - -68                                           95.01
12-1-68     - -68                                           T.S.O. II
12-12-68    - -68                                           Ch. 75, Sch. I
2-4-69      4-10-69                                         154.01   
                                                             154.08
1-5-70      - -70                                           Ch. 75, Sch. I
1-2-71      2-9-71                                          Ch. 75, Sch. I
1-12-71     12-14-71                                        Ch. 75, Sch. I
2-2-71      - -71                                           Repealed
                                                             Ch. 75, Schs.
1-4-72      4-11-72                                         I,
                                                             II
4-7-72      7-13-72                                         130.02,
                                                             130.99
6-1-72      1-11-72                                         33.06
6-9-72      9-14-72                                         Ch. 50
1-2-73      2-8-73                                          T.S.O. II
1-11-73     11-8-73                                         T.S.O. II
2-11-73     11-15-73                                        52.01
1-5-74      3-28-74                                         T.S.O. II
1-8-74      8-22-74                                         150.15(B)
4-3-74      3-28-74                                         T.S.O. II
4-4-74      3-28-74                                         Repealed
5-3-74      3-28-74                                         T.S.O. II
5-7-74      7-25-74                                         T.S.O. I
6-2-74      2-14-74                                         150.02
6-3-74      3-23-74                                         150.01
1-8-75      8-14-75                                         52.02
2-4-75      2-13-75                                         Repealed
3-2-75      2-13-75                                         72.03(B)
1-3-76      3-25-76                                         150.15(C)
                                                             92.25   
1-8-76      8-12-76                                         92.28,
                                                             92.99(B)
1-9-76      9-23-76                                         T.S.O. III
2-4-76      4-8-76                                          94.01,
                                                             94.99(A)
2-12-76     12-9-76                                         Repealed
4-12-76     12-9-76                                         72.03(I)
5-12-76     12-9-76                                         T.S.O. I
1-11-77     11-10-77                                        T.S.O. V
2-10-77     10-13-77                                        Repealed
3-8-77      8-11-77                                         T.S.O. I
3-10-77     10-13-77                                        Ch. 111
1-6-78      6-5-78                                          T.S.O. II
1-7-78      7-27-78                                         T.S.O. II
1-10-78     10-26-78                                        T.S.O. II
1-12-78     12-14-78                                        T.S.O. II
2-2-78      2-23-78                                         72.13
2-12-78     12-14-78                                        T.S.O. II
3-2-78      2-23-78                                         35.27
3-3-78      3-23-78                                         T.S.O. V
3-6-78      6-22-78                                         T.S.O. II
4-2-78      3-9-78                                          35.25(D),
                                                             35.26
4-5-78      5-25-78                                         T.S.O. III
4-6-78      6-8-78                                          T.S.O. III
4-12-78     12-4-78                                         153.02(A)
6-6-78      6-22-78                                         T.S.O. II
7-1-78      1-12-72                                         150.01
                                                             51.01,
9-1-78      1-12-78                                         51.15,
                                                             51.16
10-1-78     1-12-78                                         51.02
12-1-78     1-12-78                                         Repealed
1-2-79      2-8-79                                          72.14
1-5-79      5-10-79                                         111.21
1-10-79     10-25-79                                        T.S.O. II
1-12-79     12-13-79                                        T.S.O. II
2-3-79      4-12-79                                         Ch. 75, Sch. III
2-5-79      5-24-79                                         T.S.O. II
2-11-79     11-8-79                                         31.21(E)
3-5-79      5-24-79                                         37.05
2-5-80      5-22-80                                         90.03
3-5-80      5-22-80                                         94.02,
                                                             94.99(B)
5-2-80      2-28-80                                         51.37
9-1-80      1-24-80                                         Repealed
10-1-80     1-24-80                                         51.38
11-1-80     1-24-80                                         150.15(A)
1-3-81      3-26-81                                         Repealed
1-9-81      9-24-81                                         T.S.O. II
2-9-81      9-24-81                                         T.S.O. II
2-10-81     10-22-81                                        51.25,
                                                             51.26
3-2-81      2-26-81                                         31.20
4-10-81     10-8-81                                         T.S.O. I
1-11-82     11-11-82                                        Repealed
2-5-82      6-10-82                                         T.S.O. I
2-8-82      8-26-82                                         Ch. 50
2-9-82      10-14-82                                        Repealed
1-1-83      2-10-83                                         151.01
1-5-83      5-26-83                                         Repealed
1-10-83     11-15-83                                        155.01,
                                                             155.02
1-11-83     1-29-83                                         51.25
2-5-83      5-26-83                                         Repealed
2-11-83     12-13-83                                        T.S.O. II
4-8-83      8-25-83                                         Ch. 50
4-11-83     12-13-83                                        155.02
1-8-84      9-14-84                                         T.S.O. IV
1-10-84     10-23-84                                        Repealed
1-11-84     12-11-84                                        T.S.O. II
2-3-84      3-27-84                                         155.01
3-3-84      4-10-84                                         T.S.O. VI
1-1-86      1-28-86                                         T.S.O. VI
1-3-86      4-8-86                                          150.01
1-8-86      8-26-86                                         37.01 -
                                                             37.04
2-8-86      8-26-86                                         Ch. 50
1-11-86     11-25-86                                        Repealed
1-1-87      1-27-87                                         130.03,
                                                             130.99
2-1-87      1-27-87                                         T.S.O. VI
1-2-87      2-10-87                                         T.S.O. IV
1-3-87      3-24-87                                         T.S.O. IV
1-4-87      4-28-87                                         Repealed
1-11-87     - -87                                           T.S.O. I
2-6-87      6-23-87                                         35.25
7-5-87      6-9-87                                          51.35
3-1-88      1-26-88     Appointing a police officer          Not Included
2-1-88      2-9-88      Rezoning 57 acre tract from R-1A and T.S.O. VI
                        R-1C to R-RE
4-1-88      2-9-88      Appointing a police officer          Not Included
1-3-88      3-22-88     Levying special assessment for sewer T.S.O. VII
                        improvements
2-3-88      3-22-88     Levying special assessment for water T.S.O. VII
                        services
1-4-88      5-10-88     Rezoning 1 of Villages of Beechgrove TSO VI
                        from R-2(PUD)
1-5-88      5-24-88     Authorizing bidding of telephone     T.S.O. IV
                        franchise
2-5-88      5-24-88     Adopting annual budget for FY 1988-  Not Included
                        89
1-6-88      6-28-88     Appointing a police officer          Not Included
1-7-88      8-9-88      Setting compensation rate of Mayor   31.21(D),
                        and City Council                     32.04
1-8-88      8-23-88     Levying assessment for water         T.S.O. VII
                        improvements
2-8-88      8-23-88     Levying assessments for water        T.S.O. VII
                        improvements
3-8-88      8-23-88     Amending annual budget for FY 1988-  Not Included
                        89
1-9-88      9-13-88     Appointing a policeman               Not Included
4-8-88      9-13-88     Setting ad valorem taxation rate for Not Included
                        1988-89
5-8-88      9-13-88     Appointing a city engineer           Not Included
1-5-88      5-24-88     Authorizing bidding for telephone    T.S.O. IV
                        franchise
2-7-88      8-9-88      Accepting telephone franchise bid    T.S.O. IV
1-10-88     10-11-88    Appointing councilmember             Not Included
1-11-88     11-8-88     Adopting amendments to zoning        155.01
                        regulations
2-11-88     11-22-88    Designating presiding officer in     Not Included
                        Mayor's absence
1-2-89      3-14-89     Appointment of members of Board of   Not Included
                        Adjustment
1-4-89                 Requiring all property to utilize    51.03
                        public sewer
2-4-89      4-25-89     Rejecting proposed zoning map        Not Included
                        amendment
3-4-89      5-9-89      Appointment of members of Board of   Not Included
                        Appeals
1-5-89      6-13-89     Adopting annual budget for FY 1989-  Not Included
                        90
2-6-89      6-27-89     Amending zoning regulations relating 155.01
                        to R-2 and R-3
3-6-89      6-27-89     Rezoning 5.1 acre tract from R-1C    T.S.O. VI
                        and R-1D to R-1DD
4-6-89      6-27-89     Rezoning 2.5 acre tract from R-1C    T.S.O. VI
                        and R-1D to NC
5-6-89      6-27-89     Appointing a police officer          Not Included
6-6-89      7-11-89     Levying special assessment for sewer T.S.O. VII
                        improvements
1-7-89      7-11-89     Adopting BOCA property maintenance   Repealed
                        code
2-7-89      7-25-89     Amending zoning regulations          155.01
                        regarding IP zone
1-8-89                 Closing all of Supreme Ct. at        T.S.O. VIII
                        Appeals Ct.
2-8-89      8-8-89      Appointing police trainee by         Not Included
                        emergency adoption
4-8-89      9-12-89     Amending zoning regulations relating 155.01
                        to R & TV
1-9-89      9-26-89     Amending zoning regulations by       155.01
                        deletion of portion
2-9-89      9-26-89     Appointing a patrolman               Not Included
1990-0-1    1-23-90     Appointment of city attorney,        Not Included
                        engineer & adj. Mem.
1990-0-2    1-23-90     Authorizing issuance of revenue bond T.S.O. IX
                        ant. notes
1990-0-3    1-23-90     Authorizing water & sewer special    T.S.O. IX
                        assessment bonds 1995
1990-0-4               Amending zoning regulation-fl. prot. 155.01
                        develop. cont.
1990-0-5    2-27-90     Amending national existing           154.01
                        structures code
1990-0-6    4-10-90     Appointing Board of Adjustment       Not Included
                        member
1990-0-7    4-10-90     Relating to police dept.             35.25
1990-0-8    4-10-90     Levying special assessment for water T.S.O. VII
                        improvements
1990-0-10   5-22-90     Imposing business license fees       Repealed
1990-0-11   6-26-90     Amending annual budget for FY 1989-  Not Included
                        90
1990-0-12   6-26-90     Adopting annual budget for FY 7/1/   Not Included
                        90-6/30/91
1990-0-13   7-24-90     Ad valorem taxation rate for all     Not Included
                        property
1990-0-14              Establishing fees for zoning and     Repealed
                        building
1990-0-15              Authorizing franchise for electrical T.S.O. IV
                        energy
1990-0-16   10-9-90     Prohibiting the use of certain       94.01
                        vehicles in recreational areas
1990-0-17   11-13-90    Authorizing proposals for cable      Not Included
                        service
1991-0-1    3-26-91     Authorizing repayment of training    35.28
                        costs police
1991-0-2               Authorizing sewer improvement        T.S.O. VI
                        project- special assessment
1991-0-3    3-26-91     Amending zoning regulations          155.01
1991-0-4    5-14-91     Authorizing issuance of sewer        T.S.O. IX
                        improvement bonds
1991-0-5    5-14-91     Authorizing special assessments-     T.S.O. VII
                        sewer improvements
1991-0-6    6-25-91     Amending annual budget for FY 7/l/   Not Included
                        90-6/30/91
1991-0-7    6-25-91     Adopting annual budget for FY 7/l/   Not Included
                        91-6/30/92
1991-0-8    6-25-91     Ad valorem taxation rate-real and    Not Included
                        personal property
1991-0-9    9-10-91     Rezoning a 5 acre tract from IP to   T.S.O. VI
                        R-1B
1991-0-9A   10-8-91     Closing several streets in Hillcrest T.S.O. VIII
                        Acres Subdivision
1991-0-10   6-5-91      Authorizing bond issuance for sewer  T.S.O. IX
                        improvements
1991-0-11   8-9-91      Authorizing issuance of bonds for    T.S.O. IX
                        sewer improvement
1992-0-1    1-14-92     Requiring underground utilities in   153.03
                        subdivisions
1992-0-2    3-10-92     Annexing an 8.428 acre tract         T.S.O. II
1992-0-3    3-10-92     Annexing 4.474 acre tract on Holton  T.S.O. II
                        Drive
1992-0-4    3-10-92     Annexing a tract on Industrial       T.S.O. II
                        Highway
1992-0-5    5-29-92     Assessing pro rated garbage          50.01(B)
                        collection fee
1992-0-6    6-23-92     Amending the annual budget for FY 7/ Not Included
                        1/91-6/30/92
1992-0-7    6-23-92     Ad valorem taxation rate - real and  Not Included
                        personal
1992-0-8    6-23-92     Adopting annual budget for FY 7/1/   Not Included
                        92-6/30/93
                                                             50.01(A),
1992-0-9    6-23-92     Garbage collection rates             50.02 -
                                                             50.04
1992-0-10-1 8-25-92     Annexation petition required for     51.04,
                        utility service                      52.03
1992-0-10-2 9-22-92     Suitable toilet facilities required  51.02,
                                                             51.99(D)
1992-0-12   10-27-92    Rezoning 144 acre tract from R-1A    T.S.O. VI
                        and R-1C to R-1D
1993-0-1    2-9-93      Prohibiting gang mail box            150.03
                        installation
1993-0-2    2-9-93      Setting compensation of Mayor and    31.21,
                        Council                              32.04
1993-0-3    4-13-93     Setting debt reduction fees          T.S.O. VII
1993-0-4    4-27-93     Rezoning 24 acre site from R-1C to   T.S.O. VI
                        R-1DD
1993-0-5    4-27-93     Personnel policies                   Repealed
1993-0-6    6-22-93     Amending annual budget for FY 7/1/   Not Included
                        92-6/30/93
1993-0-7    6-22-93     Adopting annual budget for FY 7/1/   Not Included
                        93-6/30/94
1993-0-8    7-27-93     Setting ad valorem taxation rate-    Not Included
                        real and personal
1993-0-9    8-10-93     Rezoning 2.4 acre tract from NC to   T.S.O. VI
                        R-1DD
1993-0-10   8-24-93     Adopting policy manual for police    5.29
                        department
1993-0-11   8-24-93     Establishing curfew for minors       Repealed
1992-0-11   10-13-93    Levying special assessments on Crowe T.S.O. VII
                        Road
1993-0-13              Adult entertainment regulationsNot   Not Included
                        Published-
1993-0-14   12-14-93    Adopting flood damage                Repealed
1994-0-1    1-6-94      Amending personnel policies          Repealed
1994-0-2    2-22-94     Setting regular meetings and work    Repealed
                        sessions
1994-0-3    4-4-94      Authorizing issuance of bonds-sewer  T.S.O. IX
                        improvements
1994-0-4-1  4-4-94      Authorizing issuance of bonds-sewer  T.S.O. IX
                        improvements
                                                             132.01-
1994-0-4-2  4-26-94     Establishing nudity regulations      132.08,
                                                             132.33,
                                                             132.99
1994-0-5    4-26-94     Repeals 92-0-10-2 and regulates use  51.02,
                        of sewers                            51.99(D)
1994-0-6    4-26-94     Repeals 92-0-10-1 and regulates      51.01,
                        utility service                      52.03
1994-0-7    4-26-94     Levying special assessments for      T.S.O. VII
                        water improvements
1994-0-8    4-26-94     Repeals 93-0-4 and rezones site from T.S.O. VI
                        R-1C to R-1DD
                        Repeals 92-0-9 and sets garbage      50.01(A),
1994-0-9    4-26-94     collection rates                     50.02-
                                                             50.05
1994-0-10   4-26-94     Repeals 92-0-12 and rezones site     T.S.O. VI
                        from R-1A and 1C to R-1D
1994-0-11              Void                                 Not Included
1994-0-12              Void                                 Not Included
1994-0-13   6-28-94     Amending annual budget for FY 7/1/   Not Included
                        93-6/30/94
1994-0-14   6-28-94     Adopting annual budget for FY 7/1/   Not Included
                        94-6/30/95
1994-0-15   7-12-94     Authorizing issuance of bonds-       T.S.O. IX
                        industrial building
1994-0-16   7-12-94     Establishing non-partisan elections  31.20
1994-0-17   7-12-94     Amending curfew regulations          Repealed
1994-0-18   7-26-94     Amending business license            Repealed
                        regulations
1994-0-18A  8-9-94      Repeals 93-0-3 and reduces special   T.S.O. VII
                        assessments
1994-0-20   8-23-94     Declaring intent not to be a part of Not Included
                        Sanitation Dist.
1994-0-21   8-23-94     Ad valorem taxation rate- real and   Not Included
                        personal
1994-0-22   8-13-94     Establishing a charge for false      Ch. 97
                        alarm drops
                        Annexing certain territory located
1994-0-23   9-27-94     along Taylor Mill Road and certain   T.S.O. II
                        territory in the Shaw Estate
                        Subdivision, Section 1
                        Annexing certain territory located
1994-0-24   9-27-94     generally on the southwest side of   T.S.O. II
                        Bristow Road 0.1 miles north of
                        Hogrefe Road
1994-0-25   9-27-94     Payment and collection and removal   50.01
                        of garbage, trash and refuse
                        Authorizing the City Attorney to
                        acquire by all legal means temporary
1994-0-26   9-27-94     and permanent easements in           Not Included
                        connection with sanitary sewer
                        project
1994-0-27   9-26-94     Appointing new Council member        Not Included
1994-0-28   11-8-94     Adopting policies and procedures for 35.29
                        Police Department
                        Authorizing the issuance of
1994-0-29   12-13-94    $1,250,000 variable rate demand      T.S.O. IX
                        industrial building revenue bonds
                        (LSI Industries)
1994-0-30   12-13-94    Code of Ethics                       Ch. 38
                        Approving zone change from R-3 to NC
                        for an approximate 1.5 acre area
1995-0-1    1-10-95     located at the southwest             T.S.O. VI
                        intersection of Turkeyfoot and
                        Industrial Roads
1995-0-2    2-14-95     Declaration of a snow emergency      72.35,
                                                             72.36
1995-0-5    5-10-95     Establishing a schedule of fees for  Repealed
                        zoning and building permits
1995-0-7    6-22-95     Amending annual budget for FY 94-95  Not Included
                        Proposing to annex certain territory
1995-0-8    6-27-95     located between Madison Pike and     T.S.O. II
                        Fowler Creek Road (Harvest Hill
                        Subdivision)
                        Amending zoning map to rezone the
                        JTJ Development property consisting
1995-0-9    7-11-95     of 40.39 acres and lying to the      T.S.O. VI
                        south of Far Hills Drive and to the
                        west of Madison Pike from R-RE to R-
                        1C
1995-0-10   7-11-95     Amending annual budget for FY 94-95  Not Included
1995-0-11   7-25-95     Adopting annual budget for FY 95-96  Not Included
1995-0-12   9-12-95     Ad valorem tax rate - real, personal Not Included
                        and tangible property
1995-0-13   9-12-95     Payment and collection and removal   50.01
                        of garbage, trash and refuse
1995-0-14   9-12-95     Appointing City Attorney             Not Included
1995-0-15   9-12-95     Relating to the discharge of         130.04
                        firearms within the citylimits
                        Amending personnel policies by
1995-0-16   9-12-95     creating position of City            Repealed
                        Administrator
                        Entering into interlocal cooperation
1995-0-17   9-26-95     agreement creating the               T.S.O. III
                        Telecommunications Board of Northern
                        Kentucky
                        Proposing to annex approximately 81
1995-0-18   10-10-95    acres of land at the northeast       T.S.O. II
                        intersection of Madison Pike and
                        Pelly Road (Claiborne Farms)
                        Transferring from the City of
1995-0-191  1-28-95     Erlanger to the City of Independence  
                        4.474 acres of land located on       T.S.O. II
                        Richardson Road
                        Annexing approximately 81 acres at
1995-0-20   12-12-95    the northeast intersection of        T.S.O. II
                        Madison Pike and Pelly Road
1995-0-21   12-21-95    Amending personnel policies          Repealed
1996-0-1    1-23-96     Annexing 1.21 acres on Oliver Road   T.S.O. II
1996-0-2    1-23-96     Closing a portion of Regal Ridge     T.S.O. VIII
                        Drive
1996-0-3    1-23-96     Annexing 54 acres on Marshall Road   T.S.O. II
1996-0-4    2-27-96     Amending annual budget FY 95-96      Not Included
                        Establishing ball field application,
1996-0-5    3-12-96     and permit which contains the rules  94.03
                        and regulations for ball field use
1996-0-6    3-12-96     Annexing 58 acres on Madison Pike    T.S.O. II
                        and Pelly Road
1996-0-7    3-12-96     Prohibiting discarded items          Ch. 90A
1996-0-9    5-14-96     Amending annual budget FY 95-96      Not Included
1996-0-10   6-25-96     Adopting annual budget FY 96-97      Not Included
1996-0-11   6-25-96     Establishing tax incentives for      T.S.O. III
                        Mazak
1996-0-12   6-25-96     Finnell Development - waiving up to  T.S.O. III
                        100 sewer taps fees
1996-0-12A  8-13-96     Annexing .61 acres on Pelly Road     T.S.O. II
                        Prohibiting removal non-elected      Repealed (1996-0-
1996-0-13   6-25-96     officers without cause and due       16)
                        process hearing
1996-0-14   7-9-96      Establishing curfew for persons      Ch. 131
                        under 18 years of age
                        Prohibiting removal non-elected
1996-0-16   9-10-96     officers without cause and due       31.35
                        process hearing
1996-0-17   10-8-96     Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
1996-0-18   10-8-96     Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
1996-0-19   10-22-96    Fixing tax rate for limit on         Not Included
                        Richardson Road Bridge
1996-0-21   12-10-96    Amending extension of utilities      153.03
1996-0-22   12-10-96    Requiring street signs for new       153.04
                        subdivision
1996-0-23   Vetoed                                           
1996-0-24   1-14-97     Establishing occupational license    Repealed
                        fees
1996-0-25   12-10-96    Requiring appropriate house or box   150.04
                        numbers to be displayed
1996-0-26   12-20-96    Amending provisions of Independence  155.01
                        Town Center
                        Requiring approval of any alteration 95.06,
1997-0-01   01-14-98    with any city street, sidewalk or    95.99
                        right-of-way
1997-0-02   01-28-97    Establishing parking regulations     94.04,
                        within city parks                    94.99
                        Providing that the Councilperson who
                        received the most votes in the most
1997-0-03   02-11-97    recent election shall preside at     Repealed
                        meetings of the Council in the
                        absence of the Mayor
1997-0-04   02-25-97    Amending license fees                Repealed
1997-0-05   04-30-97    Authorizing 5 year contract with     T.S.O. III
                        Rumpke Waste Collection Services
1997-0-06   04-22-97    Prohibiting debris deposited on city 95.34,
                        streets                              95.99
1997-0-07   04-22-97    Denying amendment of zoning map      T.S.O. VI
1997-0-08   05-13-97    Denying amendment of zoning map      T.S.O. VI
1997-0-09   05-13-97    Annexing 0.172 acres on Pelly Road   T.S.O. II
                        Restricting use of city streets and
1997-0-10   05-27-97    rights of ways to vehicles or        95.50
                        equipment with pneumatic tires
1997-0-11   06-10-97    Annexing 64.75 acres at corner of    T.S.O. II
                        Oliver and Fowler Creek Roads
1997-0-12   07-22-97    Annexing 0.3898 acres and 3.4648     T.S.O. II
                        acres on Pelly Road
1997-0-13   08-12-97    Regulating one and two family        150.01(B)
                        dwellings
1997-0-14   08-26-97    Amending BOCA basic property         Repealed
                        maintenance code
1997-0-15   08-26-97    Adopting Kentucky Building Code      150.01(A)
1997-0-16   08-26-97    Repealing Ord. 1-7-89 and 1990-0-5   Not Included
1997-0-17   09-08-97    Amending ad valorem taxes            Not Included
                        Establishing collection and removal  50.01-
1997-0-18   09-23-97    fees of garbage, trash and refuse    50.05,
                                                             50.99
1997-0-19   09-23-97    Amending annual budget for FY 96-97  Not Included
1997-0-20   09-23-97    Annexing 0.663 acres on Pelly Road   T.S.O. II
1997-0-21   09-23-97    Amending personnel policies          Repealed
1997-0-22   09-23-97    Amending street lighting             153.05
1997-0-23   00-00-97    Adopting annual budget for FY 97-98  Not Included
1997-0-24   10-28-97    Amending proration of the billing    50.01(B)
                        for trash collection for new homes
1997-0-25   10-28-97    Establishing position of Deputy      Repealed
                        Clerk
1997-0-26   11-11-97    Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
                        Repealing Ord. 1996-0-24, 1997-0-0-
1997-0-27   11-11-97    4 and establishing annual business   Repealed
                        license, and annual fee
                        Amending interlocal cooperation
1997-0-28   12-09-97    agreement establishing               T.S.O. III
                        Telecommunications Board of Northern
                        Kentucky
                        Granting a non-exclusive franchise
1997-0-29   12-09-97    agreement with TCI-TKR Cable of      T.S.O. IV
                        Northern Kentucky
1997-0-30   12-09-97    Establishing position of Financial   Repealed
                        Bookkeeper
1997-0-31   12-09-97    Establishing position of Police      Repealed
                        Lieutenant
1998-0-01   Vetoed                                           
1998-0-02   03-16-98    Amending annual budget for FY 97-98  Not Included
1998-0-03   04-14-98    Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
1998-0-04   05-12-98    Amending annual budget for FY 97-98  Not Included
                        Providing for reservation of shelter
1998-0-05   05-22-98    areas in the public parks and        94.05
                        establishing fees and security
                        deposits
1998-0-06   08-18-98    Amending ad valorem taxes            Not Included
                        Providing for the payment of the
1998-0-07   08-18-98    costs of the collection and removal  50.10   
                        of solid waste material from         50.13
                        residences
1998-0-08   08-25-98    Adopting annual budget for FY 98-99  Not Included
1998-0-09   09-08-98    Amending annual budget for FY 98-99  Not Included
1999-0-01   02-23-99    Amending the budget Fiscal Year      Not Included
                        1998-1999
                        Repealing Ord. 1993-0-05 and
1999-0-04   06-07-99    adopting personnel policies for the  36.01
                        employees of the city
1999-0-05   06-07-99    Adopting the budget FY 1999-2000     Not Included
1999-0-06   06-29-99    Amending the budget FY 1998-1999     Not Included
1999-0-07   07-12-99    Annexing part of the unincorporated  T.S.O. II
                        territory adjacent to the city.
                        Assessing all real and personal
1999-0-08   09-13-99    property within the city, and        37.04,
                        providing for the payment and        37.06
                        collection of such taxes
1999-0-09   09-13-99    Amending residential costs for the   50.11
                        removal of solid waste
1999-0-10   10-04-99    Adopting the 1998 S-4 Supplement to  Front
                        the Code of Ordinances
1999-0-11   09-27-99    Amending the zoning code             155.01
1999-0-14   11-01-99    Amending the zoning map              155.02,
                                                             T.S.O. VI
2000-0-01   01-03-00    Amending zoning map                  155.02,
                                                             T.S.O. VI
                        Relating to the compensation of city 31.02(A)(3),
2000-0-02   01-03-00    officers                             31.21(E),
                                                             32.04 
                        Adding roller rinks under
2000-0-03   03-06-00    conditional recreation in            155.01
                        residential zones
2000-0-04   03-06-00    Annexing territory at the corner of  T.S.O. II
                        Marshall and Taylor Mill Roads
2000-0-05   04-03-00    Enacting a fair housing policy       Ch. 98
2000-0-06   04-03-00    Imposing a bank franchise and local  Ch. 114
                        deposit tax
2000-0-07   06-05-00    Amending the annual budget FY 1999-  Not Included
                        2000
2000-0-08   06-05-00    Adopting the annual budget FY 2000-  Not Included
                        2001
2000-0-09   07-03-00    Adopting the 1999 S-5 Supplement to  Front
                        the Code of Ordinances
2000-0-10   07-03-00    Amending the schedule of fees for    Repealed
                        zoning and building permits
2000-0-11   07-03-00    Amending zoning ordinance regarding  155.01
                        signs
2000-0-12   08-07-00    Providing for an alcoholic beverage  31.41
                        administrator
2000-0-13   08-07-00    Repealing job descriptions for       36.01
                        certain non-elected city offices
2000-0-14   08-07-00    Adopting job descriptions for        36.01
                        certain non-elected city offices
2000-0-15   09-11-00A   ssessing real estate and personal    37.04,
                        property taxes                       T.S.O. X
2000-0-16   09-11-00    Amending residential costs for the   50.11
                        removal of solid waste
2000-0-17   09-11-00    Prohibiting parking on Alvin Drive   Ch. 75, Sch. II
                        from 7 am to 3 pm
2000-0-18   10-02-00    Adding nursery school under          155.01
                        conditional use NSC zone
2000-0-19   11-06-00    Amending the annual budget FY 2000-  Not Included
                        2001
                        Amending the election procedure/
2000-0-20   12-04-00    nomination of candidates to city     31.20(A)(1)
                        office
2001-0-01   03-05-01    Enacting a personnel and pay         31.02(C)
                        classification plan
2001-0-02   06-04-01    Regarding accessory storage          155.01
                        buildings, garages or carports
2001-0-03   06-04-01    Setting speed limit                  71.05
2001-0-04   06-04-01    Creating position of citation        31.42
                        officer
2001-0-05   06-04-01    Adopting the annual budget FY 2001-  Not Included
                        2002
2001-0-06   06-25-01    Regulating weeds and grass           Repealed
2001-0-07   06-25-01    Amending the annual budget FY 2000-  Not Included
                        2001
2001-0-08   08-21-01    Amending zoning map                  155.02,
                                                             T.S.O. VI
2001-0-09   10-01-01    Amending zoning map                  155.02,
                                                             T.S.O. VI
2001-0-10   08-21-01    Amending residential costs for the   50.11
                        removal of solid waste
                        Amending procedures for repayment of
2001-0-11   08-21-01    debt in connection with the Fowler   T.S.O. VII
                        Creek sewer
2001-0-12   08-21-01    Amending the annual budget FY 2001-  Not Included
                        2002
2001-0-13   09-10-01    Creating the position of assistant   5.25
                        police chief3
2001-0-14   09-10-01    Enacting a personnel and pay         31.02(C)
                        classification plan
2001-0-15   10-01-01    Dedicating a parcel of property a    T.S.O. I
                        public right of way
2001-0-16   09-13-01    Assessing real estate and personal   T.S.O. X
                        property taxes
2001-0-17   12-03-01    Creating the position of emergency   31.43
                        operations director
2002-O-01   1-7-02      Chief of Police to authorize traffic 70.03
                        signs
2002-O-02   9-15-03     Creating the position of Senior      T.S.O. XI
                        Citizen Center Director
2002-O-03   1-7-02      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2002-O-04   3-4-02      Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2002-O-05   3-4-02      Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2002-O-06   4-1-02      Amending the annual budget FY 2001-  Not Included
                        2002
2002-O-07   4-1-02      Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2002-O-08   6-3-02      Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2002-O-09   6-3-02      Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2002-O-10   6-3-02      Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2002-O-11   6-3-02      Adopting the annual budget FY 2002-  Not Included
                        2003
2002-O-12   6-3-02      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2002-O-13   7-1-02      Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2002-O-14   8-5-02      Prohibiting parking on Independence  72.03
                        Road
2002-O-15   9-9-02      Cost of collection and removal of    50.10 -
                        wastes                               50.13
2002-O-16   9-9-02      Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2002-O-17   9-9-02      Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2002-O-18   9-9-02      Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2002-O-19   9-9-02      Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2002-O-20   10-7-02     Annexation                           T.S.O. II
                        Repealing previous ordinances and
2003-O-01   1-13-03     establishing the date and time for   Repealed
                        regular monthly meetings of the
                        council
2003-O-02   2-24-03     Authorizing $5,000,000 general       T.S.O. IX
                        obligation bond
2003-O-03   2-24-03     Adopting ordinance                   Front
2003-O-04   5-5-03      Garbage containers                   50.06
2003-O-05   6-2-03      Amending the annual budget FY 2002-  Not Included
                        2003
2003-O-06   6-16-03     Adopting the annual budget FY 2003-  Not Included
                        2004
2003-O-07   7-7-03      Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2003-O-08   7-7-03      Sale of alcoholic beverages          130.03
2003-O-09   7-21-03     Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2003-O-10   7-21-03     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2003-O-11   8-4-03      Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2003-O-12   8-4-03      Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2003-O-13   8-4-03      Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2003-O-14   8-4-03      Amending compensation of elected     31.03
                        city officers
2003-O-15   9-8-03      Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2003-O-16   9-15-03     Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2003-O-17   9-15-03     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2003-O-18   10-6-03     Unreasonable animal noises           Repealed
2003-O-19   11-3-03     Damage to city streets and sidewalks 95.50
2003-O-20   11-3-03     Voided                               Not included
2003-O-21   11-3-03     Classifying and licensing of motor   Repealed
                        vehicles
2004-O-01   1-5-04      Construction of sidewalks in the     95.05
                        city
2004-O-02   1-5-04      Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2004-O-03   4-5-04      Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2004-O-04   4-5-04      Skipped number                       Not included
2004-O-05   4-5-04      Code enforcement                     Repealed
2004-O-06   4-5-04      Reservation of shelter areas         94.05
2004-O-07   4-5-04      Speed humps                          70.40 -
                                                             70.54
2004-O-08   5-3-04      Attorney fee for enforcement of lien 37.05
2004-O-09   6-7-04      Cost of collection and removal of    50.10 -
                        wastes                               50.13
2004-O-10   6-7-04      Amending the annual budget FY 2003-  Not included
                        2004
2004-O-11   6-7-04      Adopting the annual budget FY 2004-  Not included
                        2005
2004-O-12   6-7-04      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2004-O-13   8-2-04      Adoption of 2002 Kentucky            150.01
                        Residential Code
2004-O-14   8-2-04      Adoption of International Property   Repealed
                        Maintenance Code 2003
2004-O-15   9-13-04     Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2004-O-16   9-13-04     Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2004-O-17   9-13-04     Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2004-O-18   9-13-04     Creating the position of part-time   T.S.O. XI
                        Building Custodian
2004-O-19   9-13-04     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2004-O-20   9-13-04     Accepting Regal Ridge                T.S.O. I
2004-O-21   9-13-04     Regulation of gang mail boxes        150.03
2004-O-22   9-20-04     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2004-O-23   11-8-04     Defeated                             Not included
2004-O-24   12-6-04     Amending the annual budget FY 2004-  Not included
                        2005
2004-O-25   12-20-04    Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2004-O-26   12-20-04    Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2004-O-27   12-20-04    Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2005-O-01   2-7-05      Amending times and places of         Repealed
                        meetings
2005-O-02   3-7-05      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2005-O-03   4-4-05      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2005-O-04   4-4-05      Rules and procedures for city        32.20 -
                        meetings                             32.25
2005-O-05   4-4-05      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2005-O-06   4-18-05     Repeals Ordinance 2005-O-01          32.21
2005-O-07   4-18-05     Repealing Ordinance 12-1-78          Not Included
2005-O-08   5-2-05      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2005-O-09   5-2-05      Relating to the installation of      153.04
                        signs
2005-O-10   5-2-05      Relating to mud and debris on        95.34,
                        streets and providing penalties      95.99
2005-O-11   5-2-05      Adopting the 2005 S-7 Supplement to  Front
                        the Code of Ordinances
2005-O-12   - -         Skipped number                       Not Included
2005-O-13   5-2-05      Amending building permits            150.02
2005-O-14   6-6-05      Amending the annual budget FY 2004-  Not Included
                        2005
2005-O-15   6-20-05     Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2005-O-16   6-20-05     Creating position of Public Services T.S.O. XI
                        Director
2005-O-17   6-20-05     Enacting a personnel pay and         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2005-O-18   6-20-05     Amending the annual budget FY 2005-  Not Included
                        2006
2005-O-19   6-20-05     Establishing a Code Enforcement      Repealed
                        Board
2005-O-20   7-11-05     Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2005-O-21   9-12-05     Repealing Ordinance 2003-O-21        Not Included
2005-O-22   9-12-05     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2005-O-23   - -         Skipped number                       Not Included
2005-O-24   4-17-06     Amending the salaries of the Mayor   31.21,
                        and City Council                     32.04
2006-O-01   1-23-06     Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2006-O-02   1-23-06     Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2006-O-03   2-6-06      Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2006-O-04   3-6-06      Regulating portable storage units    130.05
2006-O-05   3-6-06      Disclosure of executive session      32.26
                        information prohibited
2006-O-06   3-20-06     De-annexation of property            T.S.O. II
2006-O-07   5-15-06     Not enacted                          Not Included
2006-O-08   5-15-06     De-annexation of property            T.S.O. II
2006-O-09   6-5-06      Regulating sexually oriented and     115.01 -
                        adult businesses                     115.10
2006-O-10   6-5-06      Amending the annual budget FY 2005-  Not Included
                        2006
2006-O-11   6-19-06     Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2006-O-12   6-19-06     Defeated                             Not Included
2006-O-13   6-19-06     Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2006-O-14   6-19-06     Amending the annual budget FY 2006-  Not Included
                        2007
2006-O-15   6-19-06     Enacting a personnel pay and         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2006-O-16   6-24-06     Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2006-O-17   7-24-06     Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2006-O-18   9-18-06     Amending zoning ordinance            155.01
2006-O-19   8-28-06     Amending payment and costs of solid  50.10 -
                        waste material                       50.13
2006-O-20   9-18-06     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2006-O-21   11-20-06    Amending parking schedules           Ch. 75, Sch. I
2006-O-22   11-27-06    Amending Council meetings            32.21
2007-O-01   3-5-07      Amending the annual budget FY 06-07  Not Included
2007-O-02   4-2-07      Intent to annex certain property     T.S.O. II
2007-O-03   5-7-07      Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2007-O-04   6-4-07      Intent to annex certain property     T.S.O. II
2007-O-05   6-4-07      Intent to annex certain property     T.S.O. II
2007-O-06              Number skipped
2007-O-07   6-4-07      Closing a portion of a city street   T.S.O. VIII
2007-O-08   6-4-07      Adopting the annual budget FY 07-08  Not Included
2007-O-09   6-4-07      Enacting a personnel pay and         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2007-O-10   7-2-07      Closing a portion of a city street   T.S.O. VIII
2007-O-11   7-23-07     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2007-O-12   8-27-07     Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
2007-O-13   8-27-07     Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2007-O-14   9-10-07     Adopting the 2007-08 Supplement to   Front
                        the Code of Ordinances
2007-O-15   9-10-07     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2007-O-16   9-10-07     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2007-O-17   10-1-07     Repealing and replacing Floodplain   152.01 -
                        Ordinance                            152.16
2007-O-18   10-1-07     Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
2007-O-19   10-1-07     Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
2007-O-20   11-5-07     Zoning map amendment                 T.S.O. VI
2007-O-21   11-5-07     Adopting a schedule of fees for      Repealed
                        zoning and building permits
2007-O-22   11-5-07     Amending Building Code               150.01
2007-O-23   11-5-07     Amending the Residential Code        150.01
2007-O-24   11-5-07     Amending stormwater regulations      95.34,
                                                             95.99
2007-O-25   12-6-07     Establishing regulations for vicious Repealed
                        animals
2007-O-26   12-6-07     Re-establishing license regulations  Repealed
2008-O-01   1-21-08     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2008-O-02   4-7-08      Recommendation for the Stage 1       Not Included
                        Development Plan
2008-O-03   5-13-08     Recommendation for the Stage 1       Not Included
                        Development Plan
2008-O-04   5-13-08     Amending the annual budget FY 07-08  Not Included
2008-O-05   5-13-08     Creating a position of Director of   T.S.O. XI
                        Economic Development and Planning
2008-O-06   5-13-08     Enacting a personnel pay and         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2008-O-07   6-2-08      Adopting the annual budget FY 08-09  Not Included
2008-O-08   9-8-08      Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2008-O-09   9-8-08      Renewing a franchise                 T.S.O. IV
2008-O-10   9-8-06      Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2008-O-11   9-8-08      Amending Debt reduction schedule     T.S.O. VII
2008-O-12   12-1-08     Establishing speed limits            Ch. 74, Sch. I
                                                             110.01,
                                                             110.02,
                                                             110.10 -
2008-O-13   12-1-08     Re-establishing license regulations  110.16,
                                                             110.25 -
                                                             110.31,
                                                             110.99
2009-O-02   2-9-09      Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
2009-O-03   3-2-09      Authorizing a franchise              T.S.O. IV
2009-O-04   5-4-09      Amending garage containers           50.06,
                                                             50.99
2009-O-05   5-4-09      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2009-O-06   6-1-09      Amending the annual budget FY 08-09  Not Included
2009-O-07   6-1-09      Adopting the annual budget FY 09-10  Not Included
2009-O-08   6-1-09      Adopting the 2009-09 Supplement to   Front
                        the Code of Ordinances
2009-O-09   6-1-09      Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
2009-O-10   6-1-09      Amending personnel and pay           T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2009-O-11   8-3-09      Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2009-O-12   9-14-09     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2009-O-13   11-5-09     Amending vicious animal regulations  Repealed
2010-O-01   1-4-10      Prohibiting parking on Apple Drive   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2010-O-02   2-11-10     Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2010-O-03   2-11-10     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2010-O-04   2-11-10     Closing a drive                      T.S.O. VIII
2010-O-05   4-5-10      Amending exemptions for peddlers     Repealed
                                                             116.01 -
2010-O-06   5-3-10      Alcohol sales                        116.16,
                                                             116.99
2010-O-07   5-3-10      Nuisance regulations                 Repealed
2010-O-08   5-3-10      Rental dwelling license              Repealed
2010-O-09   6-7-10      Removal of excrement                 Repealed
2010-O-10   6-7-10      Amending the annual budget FY 09-10  Not Included
2010-O-11   6-7-10      Adopting the annual budget FY 10-11  Not Included
2010-O-12   6-7-10      Amending personnel and pay           T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2010-O-13   8-2-10      Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2010-O-14   9-13-10     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2010-O-15   10-4-10     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2011-O-01   1-10-11     Amending speed limits                Ch. 74, Sch. I
2011-O-02   1-10-11     Adopting a schedule of fees for      Repealed
                        building permits
2011-O-03   1-10-11     Amending sidewalk construction       95.05
                        regulations
2011-O-04   1-10-11     repeals Chapter 99                   Not Included
2011-O-05   4-4-11      Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2011-O-06   4-4-11      Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2011-O-07   4-4-11      Amending the annual budget FY 10-11  Not Included
2011-O-08   4-4-11      Amending vehicle impounding          72.20
                        regulations
2011-O-09   6-6-11      Adopting the annual budget FY 11-12  Not Included
2011-O-11   6-6-11      Adopting the 2010 S-10 supplement to Front
                        the Code of Ordinances
2011-O-12   6-6-11      Amending exemptions to occupational  110.28
                        license fees
2011-O-13   6-6-11      Adopting fireworks storage           92.06
                        regulations
2011-O-14   7-11-11     Amending personnel and pay           T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2011-O-15   8-1-11      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2011-O-16   9-12-11     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2011-O-17   9-12-11     Amending Code Enforcement Board      Repealed
                        proceedings
2011-O-18   11-7-11     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2011-O-19   11-7-11     Adopting regulations for off-site    117.01
                        vehicular sales and display events
2012-O-01   1-9-12      Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
2012-O-02   4-2-12      Collection of delinquent sewer       Not Included
                        assessments
2012-O-03   6-4-12      Amending the annual budget FY 11-12  Not Included
2012-O-04   6-4-12      Adopting the annual budget 12-13     Not Included
2012-O-05   6-4-12      Amending personnel and pay           T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2012-O-06   8-6-12      Amending building permits            150.02
2012-O-07   8-20-12     Authorizing issuance of general      T.S.O. IX
                        obligation refunding bonds
2012-O-08   8-20-12     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2012-O-09   8-20-12     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2012-O-10   8-20-12     Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2012-O-11   8-20-12     Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2012-O-13   9-10-12     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2012-O-14   9-10-12     Amending nuisance regulations        Repealed
2012-O-15   12-3-12     Amending the zoning ordinance        155.01
2012-O-16   12-3-12     Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2012-O-17   12-10-12    Authorizing issuance of general      T.S.O. IX
                        obligation refunding notes
2013-O-01   4-1-13      Amending flood plain regulations     Not Included
2013-O-03   5-13-13     Amending the annual budget FY 12-13  Not Included
2013-O-04   5-13-13     Adopting the annual budget FY 13-14  Not Included
2013-O-05   5-13-13     Amending personnel and pay           T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2013-O-06   6-3-13      Amending zoning regulations          155.01
2013-O-07   6-3-13      Repealing an annexation ordinance    T.S.O. II
2013-O-08   6-10-13     Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
2013-O-09   9-9-13      Adopting the 2013 S-11 supplement to Front
                        the Code of Ordinances
                        Adopting a statement of goals and
2013-O-10   9-9-13      objectives for a new comprehensive   Not Included
                        plan
2013-O-11   9-9-13      Amending sidewalk construction       95.05
                        regulations
2012-O-12   9-9-13      Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2013-O-13   10-7-13     Changing a street name               T.S.O. V
2013-O-14   11-4-13     Amending underground utilities       153.03
                        regulations
                                                             116.03,
2013-O-15   12-2-13     Amending alcoholic beverage control  116.05 -
                        regulations                          116.07,
                                                             116.09
2014-O-01   3-3-14      Amending Building Code               150.01
2014-O-02   3-3-14      Amending Building Code               150.01
2014-O-03   6-2-14      Amending the annual budget FY 13-14  Not Included
2014-O-04   6-2-14      Adopting the annual budget FY 14-15  Not Included
2014-O-05   6-2-14      Amending personnel and pay           T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2014-O-06   8-4-14      Amending alcoholic beverage control  Not Included
                        regulations
2014-O-07   8-4-14      Changing a street name               T.S.O. V
2014-O-08   9-12-14     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2014-O-09   9-12-14     Allocating expenses against the      Not Included
                        Fowler Creek Sewer Fund
2014-O-10   10-6-14     Amending zoning regulations          155.01
2014-O-11   11-10-14    Adopting zoning administrative fees  155.03
2014-O-12   12-1-14     Repealing code sections regarding    Not Included
                        the Board of Adjustments
2014-O-13   12-1-14     Repealing Code Enforcement Board     Not Included
                        Provisions
2014-O-14   11-10-14    Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
2014-O-15   12-1-14     Annexing certain property            T.S.O. II
                                                             152.05,
2015-O-01   1-5-15      Amending various zoning regulations  152.06,
                                                             153.02,
                                                             155.01
2015-O-02   1-5-15      Amending council meeting date        32.21
                        provisions
2015-O-03   1-5-15      Amending nuisance regulations        93.16
2015-O-04   2-5-15      Credit of occupational license fee   Not Included
                        for new employees
2015-O-05   3-2-15      Amending parking regulations         72.06
2015-O-06   5-4-15      Amending elections regulations       31.20
2015-O-07   5-4-15      Credit of occupational license fee   Not Included
                        for new employees
2015-O-08   5-4-15      Amending building fees               150.05
2015-O-09   5-4-15      Amending nuisance regulations        Repealed
2015-O-10   5-4-15      Amending animals regulations         Repealed
2015-O-11   6-1-15      Amending annual budget for FY 2014-  Not Included
                        15
2015-O-12   6-1-15      Adopting annual budget for FY 2015-  Not Included
                        16
2015-O-13   6-1-15      Enacting a personnel pay and         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2015-O-14   6-1-15      Adopting the 2015 S-12 supplement to Front
                        the Code of Ordinances
2015-O-15   8-24-15     Renaming a street                    T.S.O. V
2015-O-16   8-24-15     Amending zoning regulations          155.01
2015-O-17   9-14-15     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2015-O-18   9-14-15     Creating and establishing for bid a  T.S.O. IV
                        gas franchise
2015-O-19   9-4-15      Creating and establishing for bid an T.S.O. IV
                        electric franchise
2015-O-20   9-14-15     Amending Code Enforcement Board      Repealed
                        regulations
2015-O-21   9-14-15     Adopting the 2012 International      154.01
                        Property Maintenance Code
2015-O-22   11-9-15     Awarding an electric franchise       T.S.O. IV
2015-O-23   11-9-15     Awarding an electric franchise       T.S.O. IV
2015-O-24   11-9-15     Awarding a gas franchise             T.S.O. IV
2015-O-25   12-7-15     Annexing certain territory           T.S.O. II
2016-O-01   1-4-16      Amending zoning regulations          155.01
2016-O-02   6-6-16      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2016-O-03   6-6-16      Amending annual budget for FY 2015-  Not Included
                        16
2016-O-04   6-6-16      Adopting annual budget for FY 2016-  Not Included
                        17
2016-O-05   6-6-16      Enacting a personnel pay and         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
                                                             50.01 -
                        Amending garbage and trash           50.05,
2016-O-06   6-6-16      collection regulations               50.10 -
                                                             50.13,
                                                             50.99
2016-O-07   7-11-16     Amending vehicle weight limits       71.28
                                                             70.41,
2016-O-08   8-15-16     Amending speed humps regulations     70.44,
                                                             70.54
2016-O-09   8-15-16     Amending zoning regulations          155.01
2016-O-11   10-3-16     Amending the Code Enforcement Board  35.70 -
                                                             35.84
                                                             93.01 -
                                                             93.06,
                                                             93.15 -
2016-O-12   11-14-16    Amending nuisance regulations        93.20,
                                                             93.30 -
                                                             93.33,
                                                             93.99
2016-O-13   12-5-16     Adopting personnel policies          36.01
2017-O-01   3-6-17      Zoning amendment                     155.01
2017-O-03   6-5-17      Zoning amendment                     155.01
2017-O-04   6-5-17      Adopting annual budget for FY 2016-  Not Included
                        17
2017-O-05   6-5-17      Adopting annual budget for FY 2017-  Not Included
                        18
2017-O-06   6-5-17      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
                                                             112.01 -
2017-O-07   7-3-17      Amending peddlers                    112.12,
                                                             112.99
2017-O-08   7-3-17      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2017-O-09   7-3-17      Closing a street                     T.S.O. VIII
2017-O-11   9-11-17     Assessment of real estate and        37.04,
                        personal property taxes              T.S.O. X
2018-O-01   1-8-18      Sign regulations                     155.01
2018-O-02   2-5-18      Amending zoning map                  T.S.O. VI
2018-O-04   6-18-18     Adopting annual budget for FY 2017-  Not included
                        18
2018-O-05   6-18-18     Adopting annual budget for FY 2018-  Not included
                        19
2018-O-06   6-18-18     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2018-O-10   9-10-18     Clarifying the name of Harris Pike   T.S.O. V
2018-O-11   9-10-18     Assessment of real estate and        37.04,
                        personal property taxes              T.S.O. X
2018-O-12   9-10-18     Gang mail boxes                      150.03
                        Enacting a personnel and pay
2018-O-13   9-10-18     classification plan; part-time       T.S.O. XI
                        office assistant
                                                             99.01 -
2018-O-15   11-12-18    Enacting noise pollution regulations 99.05,
                                                             99.99
2019-O-01   6-17-19     Credit for economic   development Not included
                        project
2019-O-02   6-17-19     Amending annual budget for FY 2018-  Not included
                        19
2019-O-03   6-17-19     Adopting annual budget for FY 2019-  Not included
                        20
2019-O-04   6-17-19     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2019-O-05   9-16-19     Assessment of realestate and         37.04 ,
                        personal property taxes              T.S.O. X
2019-O-06   11-4-19     Awarding a telecommunications        T.S.O. IV
                        franchise
2019-O-07   12-2-19     Annexing certain territory           T.S.O. II
2019-O-08   12-16-19    Amending the zoning map              T.S.O. VI
2020-O-03   6-22-20     Amending annual budget for FY 2019-  Not included
                        2020
2020-O-04   6-22-20     Adopting annual budget for FY 2020-  Not included
                        2021
2020-O-05   6-22-20     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
                        Repealing Chapter 91, incorporating
2020-O-06   6-22-20     Chapter 90 of the Kenton County Code 91.01
                        of Ordinances, as amended,
                        regulating animals
2020-O-07   10-5-20     Assessment of real                   T.S.O. X
2020-O-08   10-5-20     Credit of occupational tax           Not included
2020-O-09   11-9-20     Amending the zoning map              T.S.O. VI
2020-O-10   11-9-20     Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2021-O-01   1-4-21      Parking regulations                  72.15 -
                                                             72.19
2021-O-02   2-1-21      Amending the zoning map              T.S.O. VI
2021-O-03   3-1-21      Zoning amendment                     155.01
2021-O-04   3-15-21     Zoning amendment                     155.01
2021-O-05   4-5-21      Amending annual budget for FY 2020-  Not included
                        2021
2021-O-06   4-5-21      Amending the zoning map              T.S.O. VI
2021-O-07   4-5-21      Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2021-O-08   6-14-21     Zoning amendment                     155.01
2021-O-09   6-14-21     Amending the zoning map              T.S.O. VI
2021-O-10   6-14-21     Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2021-O-11   6-14-21     Adopting annual budget for FY 2021-  Not included
                        2022
2021-O-12   6-14-21     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
                        Adopting an amended interlocal
2021-O-13   6-14-21     agreement for the Kenton County      T.S.O. III
                        Joint Code Enforcement Board
2021-O-14   8-2-21      Amending council meeting date        32.21
                        provisions
                        Adopting S-19 through S-25
2021-O-15   9-13-21     Supplements to the Code of           Front
                        Ordinances
2021-O-16   9-13-21     Annexation                           T.S.O. II
2021-O-17   9-13-21     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2021-O-18   9-13-21     Providing for a one-time tax         T.S.O. X
                        reduction
2021-O-19   10-4-21     Replacing the zoning map and the     155.01,
                        zoning code                          155.02
2021-O-21   12-6-21     Granting a cable television          T.S.O. IV
                        franchise
2021-O-22   12-6-21     Amending Mayor's salary              31.21
2022-O-01   2-7-22   Replacing the zoning map and the     155.01,
                        zoning code                          155.02
2022-O-02   4-4-22      Zoning amendment                     155.01
2022-O-03   4-4-22      Amending the personnel and pay       T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2022-O-04   4-4-22      Zoning amendment                     155.01
2022-O-05   6-6-22      Amending annual budget for FY 2021-  Not included
                        2022
2022-O-06   6-6-22      Adopting annual budget for FY 2022-  Not included
                        2023
2022-O-07   6-6-22      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2022-O-08   8-22-22     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2022-O-09   9-12-22     Amending speed limits                Ch. 74, Sch. I
2022-O-10   9-12-22     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
                                                             70.65   
2023-O-01   1-9-23      Golf cart regulations                70.67,
                                                             70.99
2023-O-02   2-6-23      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2023-O-03   2-6-2023    Amending the annual budget for FY    Not included
                        2022-2023
2023-O-04   2-6-23      Amending the closing time for city   94.02
                        parks
2023-O-05   3-6-23      Zoning amendment                     155.01
2023-O-06   3-6-23      Zoning map change                    T.S.O. VI
2023-O-07   5-1-23      Building fees amended                150.05
                                                             38.01,
                                                             38.02,
                                                             38.10 -
                                                             38.15,
2023-O-08   6-5-23      Code of ethics amended               38.20 -
                                                             38.25,
                                                             38.30,
                                                             38.40 -
                                                             38.44,
                                                             38.99
2023-O-09   6-5-23      Amending annual budget for FY 2022-  Not included
                        2023
2023-O-11   6-5-23      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2023-O-12   8-7-23      Waiving sidewalk requirements for    Not included
                        phase 40 of Timber View
2023-O-13   8-28-23     Amending personnel and pay           T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2023-O-14   8-28-23     Franchise                            T.S.O. IV
2023-O-15   9-18-23     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2023-O-16   11-13-23    Zoning map change                    T.S.O. VI
2023-O-17   12-4-23     Zoning amendment                     155.01
2023-O-18   12-4-23     Zoning map change                    T.S.O. VI
2024-O-01   2-5-24      Amending Building Code               150.01
2024-O-02   3-4-24   Zoning amendment                     150.01
2024-O-05   5-6-24   Zoning amendment                  150.01
2024-O-06   6-3-24      Zoning map change                    T.S.O. VI
2024-O-07   6-3-24      Amending annual budget for FY 2023-  Not included
                        2024
2024-O-08   6-3-24   Adopting annual budget for FY 2024-  Not included
                        2025
2024-O-09   6-3-24      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2024-O-10   9-18-24     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2024-O-11   10-7-24     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2024-O-12   11-11-24    Zoning amendment                     155.01
2024-O-13   11-11-24    Zoning amendment                     155.01
2025-O-01   2-3-25      Adding weight and width limits       Ch. 74, Sch. II
2025-O-02   3-3-25      Renaming Court Street Ponzer Court   T.S.O. V
2025-O-03   4-7-25      Zoning amendment                     155.01
2025-O-07   6-2-25      Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2025-O-08   6-2-25      Franchise                            T.S.O. IV
2025-O-10   9-8-25      Franchise                            T.S.O. IV
2025-O-11   9-8-25      Franchise                            T.S.O. IV
2025-O-12   9-8-25      Franchise                            T.S.O. IV
2025-O-13   9-15-25     Assessment of real estate and        T.S.O. X
                        personal property taxes
2025-O-14   10-6-25     Enacting a personnel and pay         T.S.O. XI
                        classification plan
2025-O-15   11-3-25     Zoning map change                    T.S.O. VI
2025-O-16   11-3-25     Zoning amendment                     155.01
                                                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
RES. NO.  DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION CODE SECTION
09-10-85                         10.19
1998-R-09 - -                     Repealed
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO MUNICIPAL ORDERS
 
MUNICIPAL ORDER NO. DATE PASSED DESCRIPTION                    CODE SECTION
                                Creating specific investment   33.25 -
2018-MO-03          11-12-18    policy and strategy guidelines 33.39
                                policies and procedures
                                                             
 
Independence, KY City Council Meeting Minutes
Contains meeting minutes current from January 13, 1998 through March 19, 2025
1998 Minutes
January 13, 1998
City Of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard, and the Pledge of Allegiance
was done. The Mayor explained the meeting was being held at the Kenton County
Extension Center due to the on-going renovations at the Courthouse.
At Roll Call, all council members were in attendance.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
1- The minutes from the December 8 meeting were approved without change, by
motion of Mr. Weber, seconded by Mr. Holten, with all ayes. The minutes from
the December 9th meeting were approved with amendments by motion of Mr. Weber,
seconded by Mr. Holten, with all ayes.
NEW BUSINESS
2- The Mayor asked if anyone wished to add to the agenda. Additions to New
Business were Community Access on Cable (Mrs. Henson) and Discussion regarding
Personnel Policy changes (Mayor Gabbard). Items added under Old Business were
Mr. Kolb’s Development Plan (Mrs. Henson), and the Planning Session (Mayor
Gabbard).
BUDGET CHANGES PRIOR TO AMENDMENT
3- Mr. Scott asked council to review a list of budget line item changes which
will be addressed in an amended budget ordinance later. He provided a handout
with known changes, and these were explained to council as needed.
4- Mr. Scott informed council about the $ 60,000 from the 1996-97 budget which
was spent for Shaw Park site preparation during the 1997-98 fiscal year.
Council would have to decide whether this money would be removed from the 1997-
98 budget under General Fund or from the existing Park Budget. After some
discussion, council asserted it was their intent this money be spent from the
prior year budget, and that the money should come from the General Fund instead
of the current Park Budget.
5- Mayor Gabbard explained to council that the line item for Fowler Creek
expenses was overspent or will be shortly. The Mayor will check this item out
and bring this topic back for discussion at the January 27 meeting.
CABLE BOARD COMMUNITY ACCESS
6- Mrs. Henson wished to inform council, the Mayor and the public that the
Telecommunications Board will have a Community Program Advisory Committee. She
asks that anyone interested in applying to be on this committee notify her.
This committee would have various duties and report to the Cable Board.
AMENDING THE PERSONNEL POLICY
7- Mayor Gabbard suggested the Personnel Committee review and change several
current policies. One change would be to allow 2 weeks of vacation for new
staff vs. the existing 1 week. A second change would be to allow for a 90 day
probation period for new staff. The Mayor asked the committee to review these
ideas and possibly bring a document to the January 27th meeting for a first
reading.
8- Mrs. Henson commented the committee had stopped meeting after the summer,
and that she recommended an outside service be brought in to complete the
revisions to the policy, at a cost of $ 3000-6000. Mr. Holten said he was not
anxious to spend more money in this direction, and discussion followed
regarding the expense for the service and for legal review. Mr. Scott was asked
to work with the Personnel Committee, and Mr. Jed Deters said his office had
offered to do this work for a minimal fee. It was established that Mrs. Henson
has been the chairperson for this committee.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
9- The Mayor opened up this section of the meeting. Mr. Robert Exeler addressed
council regarding water service on Fowler Creek. He provided a document to the
Mayor and asked if the City would look into providing water for this area.
Discussion ensued as to grant money available to fund this project plus a need
to get the remainder of the city tied into water service. The Mayor and City
Administrator will look into this.
OLD BUSINESS
POSSIBLE CHANGE TO 3RD CLASS CITY
10- Mr. Scott gave out information to council regarding the benefits of
becoming a 3rd Class City. He explained the benefits of moving to a 4th class
city also, but said that with city population, we should consider the 3rd class
status.
   He believes the fire department is not required to be a part of a 3rd class
city, only fire service. The process to become a 3rd class city would begin
with council adopting a resolution to petition the General Assembly, and ask
local legislators to sponsor a bill. Data would need to be provided to all
these parties, but the procedure is generally a smooth one.
11- Mrs. Steffen added that there were a few other benefits to becoming a 3rd
class city, which she shared with council. The Mayor spoke about recognition
which comes with 3rd class status. Council discussed this and had concerns
about down-sides to this change. It was determined that council would probably
be willing to draft such a resolution, but only after Mr. Scott could provide
legal, written confirmation regarding the fire department, and explaining the
pros and cons of such a move.
SEWERING HOMES ON MADISON
12- Dan Briggs, Cardinal Engineering, spoke to council about sewering homes
between the Swindler Funeral Home and the Independence Christian Church. Old
figures he had from April, 1996, stated costs estimated at $ 15,000 for one
home. He has surveyed a route, and said cost would run $ 30,000-38,000
depending on the direction the pipes are run. It might be easier and more cost
effective to run in a southerly direction. These costs do not include legal or
engineering fees of probably an additional 15%.
13- Discussion followed regarding cost and other concerns. Mr. Exeler spoke on
this, and Mr. Briggs said if the city could work with the church, costs could
be cut by as much as $ 6000.
14- Mrs. Henson raised the possibility of sending a letter to the residents
involved, stating approximate costs for the project. Mr. Weber stated this
should only be as a proposed project in the letter, and council agreed. Council
would then wait to see what resident’s reactions were before committing to the
project. Mr. Jed Deters had concerns regarding other “pockets” of the community
who are also without water and cautioned not over-extending until the City can
find out how it is doing with the Fowler Creek assessments.
15- It was suggested that Dan Briggs do 2 work-ups: the Madison area and the Mc
Cullum area, and bring this information back to council.
ARCHITECTURAL FEES
16- Mr. Scott said the price charged for the service the City received in
architectural rendering was reasonable and in-line with what we received in
work. He recommended the city pay the bill. Mrs. Weber asked that the city quit
hiring architects for projects until we actually plan to act on something.
APPOINTMENT TO PLANNING/ZONING COMMITTEE
17- Mr. Russ England is the current representative to this committee. The Mayor
told council he had decided to re-appoint Mr. England since he himself had not
been approved by council. Discussion followed as to 2 other candidates who had
applied to the Mayor and whether he had met with them or considered them. There
were questions about Mr. England’s attendance and other concerns regarding his
service to the city while on the committee. Questions were raised as to the
Mayor appointing Mr. England when the Mayor originally had requested this
position for himself, and concerns about Mr. England’s ties to builders.
Discussion continued, with council finally taking a vote.
18- Motion was made by Mrs. Gabbard, seconded by Mrs. Steffen, to approve Mr.
England to the position on the Planning and Zoning Committee. Vote was taken by
roll call, with 2 yes votes, and 4 no votes coming from Mrs. Weber, Mr. Weber,
Mr. Holten and ,Mrs. Henson. Mrs. Henson added that her no vote was given
because the 2 other candidates had not been interviewed. The motion failed.
19- The Mayor commented that he will now allow the decision to fill Mr.
England’s spot to be made by NKAP board, since neither he nor Mr. England were
approved. The Mayor was asked if he would consider holding off on this decision
and interview the 2 candidates, Mr. Exeler and Mr. Feldhaus. Mrs. Henson
volunteered to check as to procedure so Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Exeler could still
apply.
FOLLOW-UP
20- Mr. Al Bowling spoke about the junk autos on Wayman. He said letters needed
to go out about this, and it could be taken to court. He is currently working
with Mr. Wong of NKAP, and Mr. Dave Kean. The Mayor was concerned about the
lack of follow-through by NKAP and again voiced concern the City might have to
take over the zoning work. Mr. Scott said there is a way that cities can group
together to contract with a firm to do this work, and he would like to bring
information to council on this. Cardinal Engineering had also expressed
interest in doing the zoning work.
21- Discussion ensued as to the amount of money paid for zoning services; in
particular, Mr. Wong’s fees. The city would remain in contract with NKAP but
would not have to remain in contract with them for zoning, and the money
currently spent to pay Mr. Wong could be applied toward another zoning
administrator.
22- Mr. Bowling spoke about Cherokee Bowl and his meeting a week ago with one
of the owners, Mr. Scott, a real estate agent , and 2 other parties. The
meeting was to discuss city concerns and review possible options. Mr. Bowling
said the building is definitely structurally sound, so no condemnation can
occur based on that. Mr. Bowling and Mr. Scott will continue to look into ways
to deal with this problem site.
23- Mrs. Henson brought up a concern regarding a 1996 notice about a pool
without a fence. This has gone unresolved for 18 months or more. Mr. Bowling
said he would speak with Mr. Wong about this again.
KOLB DEVELOPMENT PLANS
24- Mrs. Henson had asked this item to be on the agenda since she was not aware
that a meeting had been set up to deal with it. Now that she is aware a
committee is meeting on this January 15th, it does not need to be discussed at
this time. Item is withdrawn.
PLANNING SESSION
25- The Mayor spoke about dates and times for an upcoming Planning Meeting. A
Friday session would run 6-10 p.m., with a Saturday session running from 9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m.. After some discussion, the dates of January 30-31 were
decided upon, and the City Clerk was asked to look into possible sites. The
Mayor and City Administrator asked that council provide, within a week,
information as to topics they wish to discuss. Council members also mentioned
this was an open meeting and residents could attend if they chose.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Police Department
26- Chief Porter informed council of a recent DARE graduation service held at
Kenton Elementary. There were over 120 students in attendance, along with
family members.  The room was overflowing with people, and the group
enthusiastically supported the DARE program. Chief Porter commented that this
was a good experience, and was pleased with the attendance at the event, as
well as the enthusiasm it generated.
Building Inspector
27- Mr. Bowling reported that he had arranged for Rumpke to use his numbers in
the future as guideline for their billing. Cherokee Auto Parts is set to be
inspected on January 14th by Mr. Bowling, Mr. Wong and a representative from
the Fire District.
Engineering Report
28- Dan Briggs referred to the items on “follow-up” and said the raw sewage
problem in the Beechgrove area had probably been resolved. Regarding the
potholes on Berrywood, this is a dedicated city street, and work will begin on
this soon. Regarding lighting at the Beechgrove Clubhouse, the Mayor is waiting
for a letter from the Homeowners Association rep, Sandy Brewer. Lighting was
requested near the clubhouse area.
29- Rickey Lane residents had complained about sewer smells due to a forced
main discharge. Mr. Briggs explained this could be alleviated in part with
chemical injection costing $ 3200 for equipment and $ 60 per month for
chemicals. The Mayor will review the budget for money to do this work.
30- Holten Drive’s report has been received and Thelen recommends total
replacement. Dan Briggs is reviewing options, including white-topping and grant
or other funds to assist with costs.
31- Sewer monitors are in place, but will be pulled for approximately 3 months
to go to areas where problems are suspected. Reports are being given to EPA.
32- Mr. Exeler asked what could be done about “blackwater” on Fowler Creek near
the pumping station. Mr. Briggs will check into this.
City Attorney
33- Mr. Jed Deters had nothing to report and there were no ordinances to be
read.
City Administrator
34- Mr. Scott spoke about talks he had with Cinergy regarding street lights. He
would like to propose that in future when plats are done, a letter should go to
the builder about our ordinance with a request for the $ 50.00 fee and 5
copies. Once these are received, the city would then release, instead of
putting Cinergy in the middle.
35- There was a concern that some street light backs were being blacked out at
the request of residents, due to the light shining into their homes. There is a
question as to who should pay for this. Mr. Scott suggests the residents should
call the city and we can inform Cinergy to do this work, if we approve.
36- “Blighted property” such as the Cherokee Bowl site can be better addressed
once we achieve 3rd Class City status. The city may have options of its own
that are not now available.
37- Mr. Scott informed council he had attended a Budget Seminar.
   He wanted to follow the plan for budget preparation he learned about. From
this information, he had plans to meet with department heads (and was currently
doing so) to begin work on the 1998-99 budget. He wishes to have the budget
read and accepted in July, 1998.
38- Regarding committees, Mr. Scott said he encourages the committees to
present information at council meetings so it can be acted upon. Most concerns
should be ironed out prior to submitting the ideas to council so the council
meetings will not spend undue time on these topics.
39- Mr. Weber asked about a light at Rice and Klette Roads that has been out
for some time, as well as a light on the hill on Rice Road. This will be
checked out by Mr. Scott.
40- The Mayor spoke about a letter to UHLP/Cinergy and Owen Electric regarding
charges for the proper amount of lights. Mr. Scott was asked to follow up on
this to ascertain correct information for billing.
41- A question arose about lighting at subdivision entrances. Mrs. Weber asked
how we get these lit properly. The Mayor said Arlinghaus proposed 3 lights on
Hartland Blvd., but no entrance lights. Discussion ensued about whether the
city should adopt an ordinance regarding entrance lighting, plus cost to the
city. Mr. Deters was asked to begin work on an ordinance, and Mr. Scott will
review the existing street light ordinance to see how it may address this
concern.
Mayor’s Report
42- Mayor Gabbard said he and Mr. Scott attended a recent NKAP meeting that
dealt with Drees’ request for re-zoning of property. He and Mr. Scott spoke
against this, and the motion was defeated by an 8-7 vote. The Mayor also stated
an Executive Session was needed this evening.
43- Mr. Holten, who is on a Northern Kentucky Chamber of Commerce committee,
asked the Mayor to hold a meeting with Taylor Mill regarding business within
the city limits, preferably in March or April. The Mayor responded that
Independence is not in the Chamber and he would have to think about this and
wished to look over any material related to this proposed meeting.
44- Motion was made by Mrs. Weber, seconded by Mr. Weber, to adjourn to
Executive Session, with all ayes.
45- Motion was made to return to regular session by Mr. Holten, seconded by
Mrs. Henson, with all ayes. A motion was then made to adjourn the regular
meeting by Mrs. Henson, seconded by Mr. Weber, with all ayes, The meeting was
officially adjourned.
                  _________________________
                  Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
___________________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
January 27, 1998
City Of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard, followed by the Pledge of
Allegiance, and an invocation by Reverend William Risher of the New Banklick
Baptist Church.
ROLL CALL
Roll call was taken, with all council members being present.
The Mayor welcomed council and the audience members. He explained this was the
first meeting held in the newly renovated room of the Courthouse. He thanked
Kenton County Fiscal Court for their work and the expense in renovating the
area, and commented that the City had provided funds toward the sound system.
The Mayor asked for the minutes of January 13 to be approved or if there were
any changes. Council members commented they did not want to deal with this, and
Mr. Holten requested the agenda be changed to deal with the fact that no legal
counsel was present. This needed to be the first order of business.
CITY ATTORNEY - CONCERNS
1- Motion was made by Mr. Holten, seconded by Mr. Weber, to address this issue
before other business. Discussion ensued as to whether legal representation at
the meeting was necessary. Roll call vote was 4 ayes, with 2 no votes (Gabbard
and Steffen). Motion passed.
2- Mr. Holten said an ordinance had been prepared to re-appoint the Deters,
Benzinger, and Lavelle firm as City counsel. He presented this to council and
city staff. Mr. Holten motioned, seconded by Mrs. Weber, that the ordinance be
read. The Mayor asked for time to review the document before proceeding. He
then asked for comments.
3- A long argument ensued over the merits of Mr. Deters vs. Mr. Wichmann, and
the experience of both attorneys. The Mayor commented on Judge Summe’s ruling
of January 15th stating which led to the City having no legal counsel. Council
members argued with the Mayor at length on this issue, and there were several
comments from residents, also. Discussion ended, with a vote being called to
read the ordinance: vote of 4 ayes and 2 no votes (Gabbard and Steffen). Motion
passed.
4- The ordinance was read by the City Clerk, after which a motion was made to
approve the first reading (Holten/K Weber). Vote was 4-2, and passed.
5- Mr. Jed Deters advised an emergency ordinance would be needed before
resumption of counsel duties. Discussion followed as to the effect on the city
of acting without counsel, and possible retention of Mr. Deters for a short-
term period ranging, from 2 to 6 weeks, to carry on city business. Motion was
made by Mr. Holten, seconded by Mr. Weber, to adjourn the meeting, due to lack
of counsel. Discussion followed.
6- The Mayor read, for the record, the appointment document regarding Mr. Frank
Wichmann as City Attorney. (see addendum). Discussion ensued about Mr. Deters
representing the City in the past, having done so well, and council’s concerns
regarding why Mr. Deters was let go by the Mayor.
7- There was discussion about whether Mr. Deters had acted in conflict with the
City interests, being a property owner in the City. This led to argument over
the ruling by Judge Summe as to whether it did or did not affirm the Mayor.
Some council members stated they did not wish to adjourn.
8- A resident, Mr. Wilson, commented on his struggles with the City regarding
an on-going problem with parking his truck in the driveway. He remarked that
the power struggle caused people to suffer, and that council and the Mayor
needed to be for the people.
9- Discussion ensued regarding Mr. Wilson’s problem and ordinances which had
been introduced to deal with it. No ordinance had been completed and approved
to date on this. The Mayor spoke out about Mr. Wichmann being the original
author of several documents this city has used. The gross receipts tax
ordinance and the ordinance prohibiting the removal of non-elected city
officers was drafted from his models for another city.
10- The Mayor spoke about Mr. Kolb’s business before council on the agenda and
that a time-line requirement meant it would need to be addressed quickly. Mr.
Napier, a resident, said council seemed unwilling to hire Mr. Wichmann for an
interim period, and could a compromise with the Mayor be reached. Council
members and the Mayor responded with arguments for their choices.
11- After more discussion, a vote was called to adjourn the meeting based on
Mr. Holten’s earlier motion. The motion was modified to no adjournment, but the
meeting would continue on only to hear concerns but not vote on issues. Roll
call vote was a 3 - 3 tie. The Mayor broke the tie and the meeting continued
with agenda items to be addressed.
12- Mrs. Henson motioned that Mr. Wichmann be appointed the city counsel for an
interim period of 2 -4 weeks. Motion was seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Discussion
ensued with questions being addressed to Mr. Wichmann. Mr. Jed Deters commented
that Mr. Wichmann would be in a conflict of interest due to the suit, and Mr.
Wichmann responded that the Deters’ firm would then be in the same conflict.
Mrs. Henson withdrew her motion.
13- Mr. Holten motioned that impeachment proceedings be started against the
Mayor. Due to lack of a second, the motion died.
14- Citizen comments continued about setting aside personal problems to get on
with City business. Several spoke of being embarrassed by these and past
proceedings. The Mayor was challenged by one citizen to get on with the meeting
and appoint an attorney.
15- Mr. Napier, who attended due to a zoning problem, asked for assistance. Mr.
Scott referred him to the Board of Adjustments and advised Mr. Napier to meet
with him the following morning on this issue.
16- Tempers flared and shouting ensued, with comments about council members
having personal agendas against the Mayor. Mrs. Henson, in particular, spoke
out that this was not so for herself. Mrs. Weber agreed.
17- Mr. Bill Wilson spoke again about his problem with parking his truck.
Council and the Mayor addressed his concerns, and Mrs. Steffen asked if this
could be dealt with immediately by a vote. Response was no, since no attorney
to advise.
CRAIG KOLB - DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY
18- Mr. Scott updated council on the committee meeting of January 15th
regarding the development of property at Taylor Mill and Cox Road. Deed
restrictions were agreed to, and read to council by Mr. Scott at this time.
Basically, it seemed an agreement had been reached that Mr. Kolb should be
granted his zone change.
19- Mr. Kolb showed his revised site plan based on changes of the January 15
meeting. New plans include a 200 foot buffer zone and office buildings. He is
getting recommendations from other sources re how to handle curb cuts.
20- Discussion ensued re the problem of curb cuts, with Mr. Kolb asking the
city to allow a deviation from 600’ to 275’ minimum. Discussion continued about
how to over-ride the Area Planning decision for no zone change. Mr. Wichmann
offered an opinion wherein Mr. Kolb could have the city override the NKAP
decision by using their transcript of that meeting and voting on zone changes.
21- The Mayor said the city would look into this and speak with Mr. Kolb. Also,
he spoke about a possible Public Hearing. Mr. Kolb was under the impression
that the December 9th council meeting was indeed a public hearing, and this was
clarified for him. Motion was made by Mrs. Steffen, seconded by Mrs. Gabbard,
to overturn the NKAP decision regarding the zoning of this property, with the
understanding a public hearing would be held to address the issue. Discussion
followed.
22- Comments were made about council being told not to attend the January 15th
committee meeting. A resident, Mr. Napier, commented on the city taking action
for Mr. Kolb’s project when other people’s concerns were not being dealt with.
Council was not prepared to vote on the re-zoning based on Mr. Wichmann’s
advice. The motion was withdrawn.
23- A resident asked that Mr. Kolb verify in writing what he will do with the
property. Mrs. Weber commented this any document re property development should
be a legal document, including the deed restriction information. Council agreed
a public hearing date should be set to deal with the re-zoning concern.
TRAILER PARKING
24- Mrs. Steffen asked if she could present her ordinance to deal with parking
of trailers and trucks via conditional use permits. She motioned that a first
reading be done, which was seconded by Mrs. Henson, who commented she had
presented similar regulations which had been voted down.
25- Discussion ensued with Mr. Wilson commenting on his experience, and council
commenting on the existing ordinance. As the form provided to council was not
in ordinance format, the motion Ms. Steffen made was withdrawn.
26- After considerable comment and discussion, Mrs. Henson suggested 3 council
members volunteer to form a committee with others to address this concern of
truck parking. She volunteered to chair the committee, and Mrs. Steffen and
Mrs. Weber agreed to serve.
27- Mr. Wilson asked if the city could back off this issue with him for a
while, Mrs. Weber spoke with Mr. Bowling who said he would not follow through
on this until the committee had met to discuss solutions. It was suggested that
Mr. Wilson check with Mr. Bowling as to how he would be notified.
AMENDED BUDGET 1997-98
28- The Mayor asked council to review the amended budget document provided to
them and asked the City Clerk to explain changes made. Information was provided
by the clerk, and Mrs. Weber asked if the corrections had been reviewed by Mr.
Frank Keller. As they had not, 1st reading was delayed. The Mayor reminded
council that some bills could not be paid or work continued until more money
had been appropriated as noted in the amended budget.
MR. KOLB
29- Mr. Kolb stated that during the meeting he had noted that the 90 days he
had to act within would end as of February 4th. He asked for clarification as
to how to proceed. He was asked to get the transcript of the meeting at NKAP at
which his proposed zone change had been turned down. The public hearing would
be set for the 4th, with a special council meeting after it at which council
could vote on whether to re-zone or not.
3RD CLASS CITY STATUS
30- Mr. Scott did not have any legal document which answered council’s
questions about moving to 3rd class city status. Since these were unavailable
yet, this item will be re-visited at a later meeting.
KY ACTION RESOLUTION
31- Mr. Scott provided a document to council regarding a resolution to support
the KY ACTION alliance, whose goal is to give communities more power to deal
with tobacco use by children. Mrs. Gabbard motioned council adopt the
resolution, but with no second, the motion died. Mr. Scott urged council and
residents to contact state legislators if they support the issue.
RESOLUTION RE SB 66
32- Mr. Scott explained this resolution would provide grant money for community
improvement projects, with qualifications. He read aloud the resolution. Motion
was made by Mrs. Gabbard, seconded by Mrs. Steffen to adopt the resolution.
Vote was 2 ayes, 1 no (Mrs. Henson) and 3 “not voting” (K Weber, R Weber, S
Holten). Motion passed.
PLANNING SESSION
33- Discussion was opened about the Planning Session, but was stymied by
concerns regarding lack of legal counsel. Mrs. Henson motioned council instruct
the Mayor to begin a search for legal counsel. This was seconded by Mrs. Weber,
with all 6 voting aye. Motion passed.
ADJOURNMENT
34- Motion was made by Mrs. Henson, seconded by Mrs. Weber, to adjourn the
meeting. Vote was all ayes, and the meeting officially adjourned.
                _______________________________
               Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
_____________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 2, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
1.   Mayor Gabbard called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. The meeting was
attended by council members Ken Weber, Scott Holten, Anita Steffen & Barbara
Gabbard
2.   Mayor Gabbard stated this meeting had been called for the purpose of
discussion and taking possible action on legal services contracts for the city
and discussion of the Kenton Circuit Court Action #97-CI-00594. The Mayor
opened the floor for discussion.
3.   Mr. Weber asked the Mayor if he was aware of the alternate proposal that
he had spoke to the City Administrator about. He replied that he had spoke to
Mr. Scott regarding the city attorney situation. Charles Deters stated that the
city had agreed to pay $4,000 per month for legal services and does not wish to
see the city pay more than that. He said that a motion has been filed before
the judge to ask for payment for the time spent on ordinances and litigation
which is more than the $4,000. He would like payment up until the day of the
judgement by Judge Summe on January 22, 1997. He feels that hiring Frank
Wichmann is a conflict of interest because Mr. Wichmann is involved as a party
in the lawsuit against the city. He questioned how the city could hire someone
that is suing the city. Mr. Deters’ would like to settle the lawsuit, but will
not do so without payment of services for the last several months, otherwise he
will take it to the Court of Appeals.
4.   Mr. Deters proposed as settlement for council: (1) pay the Deters firm the
usual $4,000 per month fee from April 1, 1997 up to the date of judgement (1-
22-97); (2) dismiss the lawsuit, which would settle the conflict of interest
for Mr. Wichmann, then; (3) council will agree to hire Frank Wichmann through
June 30, 1998 to handle both the legislative and executive sessions. Mr. Deters
suggested contracting with Mr. Wichmann for $3,500 per month with $500.00 per
month retainer being set aside for council to receive services from Jed Deters
on possible legislative concerns. Mr. Deters mentioned that council still has
reservations because of Mr. Wichmann’s allegiance to the Mayor and not council.
5.   Mayor Gabbard stated that while he does not agree with everything in Mr.
Deters proposal, that it is a start and worth considering. He stated that there
is a shortfall in the budgeted legal fees.
6.   Mr. Weber thinks the proposal is a workable solution for everyone in a no-
win situation. Mr. Wichmann suggested seeing if two attorneys is workable then
it is just a matter of settling on money and fees. Mr. Weber responded that the
majority of council is opposed to having two attorneys and reiterated that he
thinks the proposal outlined by Mr. Deters is a just and fair offer. Mr. Deters
stated that council does not think that dividing the city legal work is a
workable solution and will only complicate the situation further. Mr. Wichmann
stated that he did not agree.
7.   Mr. Wichmann does not agree with the part of the proposal where the Deters
firm is paid 100% for their services for the past several months and does not
include payment for his services, as he has attended all the council meetings,
prepared documents and conferred with the Mayor. He feels he should be paid as
well. Mr. Holten reminded Mr. Wichmann that he asked him at previous meetings
if he was willing to work non-gratis as council did not provide funding in the
budget to pay for his services. Mr. Wichman stated that he did not agree to
work non-gratis. Mr. Deters stated that council agreed that the Deters firm
would be doing all the city work. Mr. Holten stated that he will back Mr.
Wichmann’s services in this proposal now, but will not pay for previous
services. Mrs. Gabbard asked what the plans for legal services was after June
30, 1998. Mr. Weber stated that council will address that issue at a later
date.
8.   Mayor Gabbard stated that he feels council has made a reasonable offer but
would need two considerations to accept this offer: (1) Frank Wichmann should
be contracted to work through December 31, 1998 which would be the end of the
current administration’s term; and (2) money for Mr. Wichmann’s previous work,
as the judge said there was no valid contract for either attorney. The Mayor
said he needed time to take this proposal under consideration and requested the
proposal be put in writing. He would like to discuss this issue again at the
next special meeting on Wednesday, February 4, 1998.
9.   Mr. Deters asked if this would be just discussion or if a decision would
be made, as this proposal needs to be done in the form of formal documents,
contracts, etc. The Mayor responded that he needs the proposal in writing and
needs time to consider it. Mr. Deters stated that he would fax a written
proposal to the city office tomorrow morning. He also stated that all parties
to the lawsuit would need to participate in the sign-off of the agreement. Mr.
Deters presented the Mayor with a copy of the motion they filed with Judge
Summe in answer to her judgement on Case #97-CI-00594.
10.   There was a short discussion regarding legal representation for the city
at the special meeting on Wednesday (2-4-98) to discuss and take possible
action regarding the zone change request for the property at Cox & Taylor Mill
Rds owned by Mr. Craig Kolb.
11.   Ken Weber made a motion to adjourn. Scott Holten seconded the motion.
Meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
_____________________________________
Linda Baker, City Clerk
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, Assistant City Clerk
February 9, 1998
City of Independence, KY
Special Council Meeting
Minutes
CALL TO ORDER
The Mayor called the meeting to order at 7:40 p.m. The special meeting was
called to address two issues: Legal services contracts, and Kenton Circuit
Court Action # 97-CI-00594. Discussion had begun on these issues at a prior
special meeting of February 2, 1998. The meeting was originally set for the
Courthouse, but was moved at the last minute to the City Building due to
problems getting into the Courthouse building.
ROLL CALL
Roll call was taken, with all members being present.
DISCUSSION
The Mayor opened the floor to council members to discuss the issues on the
agenda. After considerable discussion, these are the basic points of the
meeting:
Mr. Deters offered and read an ordinance outlining payment to his firm (see
attached document). He also provided a detailed list of services provided to
the City over the past 10 months. Mr. Wichmann did not have such a list
prepared, but stated he had provided to the Mayor a statement for services
rendered which outlined what he had done. He offered to provide such a list
again if necessary.
Mrs. Steffen offered information on City Attorney salaries as a comparison for
council to review. Discussion centered on why the Deter’s firm was paid so much
originally, and a concern that future attorney fees could be lower, now the
city has a City Administrator.
The Mayor was asked several times if he had instigated a search for a neutral
attorney, to which he responded he had not done so yet. When asked if he had
plans to begin this search, he responded he had no plans to begin a search at
this time.
No compromise was reached, due to concerns that hiring Mr. Wichmann would put
him in conflict with the City due to the ouster suit he is handling for Mayor
Gabbard.
A point of impasse appeared to be reached, and Mrs. Henson motioned for an
adjournment, seconded by Mr. Holten, with all ayes. Meeting was officially
adjourned.
                  ______________________
                  Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
_________________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
February 10, 1998
City of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 by Mayor Gabbard. The pledge of
allegiance was followed by an invocation offered by Reverend Greg Fightmaster
of the Beechgrove Baptist Church.
ROLL CALL
Roll call was answered by 5 council members, with Mrs. Gabbard being the only
absent councilperson.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Motion was made to approve the minutes of January 13, 1998, as amended (K
Weber/R Weber), and passed with all ayes. Motion was made to approve the
January 27 minutes, as amended (R Weber/K Weber) with 4 ayes and 1 abstention
by Mrs. Henson. Motion was made to approved the February 2nd minutes without
amendment (K Weber/Holten), passing with 3 ayes, and 2 abstentions. Mrs. Weber
and Mrs. Henson abstained due to being absent from that special meeting.
NEW BUSINESS
Mrs. Pegg - Easter Egg Hunt/Independence Lions Club
1-Mrs. Leann Pegg addressed council regarding funding requested for the Easter
Egg Hunt planned for April 4th at Kenton Elementary. She said the Easter Bunny
would be there, that there would be pictures taken with the bunny, for a fee,
and that each child would hopefully receive a gift (her letter of intent is
attached). Discussion ensued as to cost of film, and keeping advertisement of
the event within the city. A vote was called (Henson/Steffen) to approve $600
for Easter Egg Hunt expenditures. Money would come from the line item in the
Recreation budget for events. Vote was all ayes, motion passed, and the Mayor
thanked Mrs. Pegg. (The fee to be charged, if any, was up to the City).
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
2- The Mayor asked that anyone wishing to address council please sign in at the
table on the sheet provided. Mrs. Donna Yeager signed up as she wished to
speak.
3- Mrs. Yeager informed council of recent changes she had made to the budget
lines for the recreation budget. She and Mr. Gary Scott explained that with
less line items, more flexibility was built into how money could be spent
without having to re-address council for budget amendments. Mr. Scott spoke
about his proposal that future budgets be more streamlined, still allowing the
control council needs. Mrs. Henson asked if a monthly report could be provided
3 Cont. - regarding activity, and Mrs. Yeager said this could be done.
Currently a monthly report would not be necessary but would with increased
activity in the spring.
4- It was decided that these changes would be incorporated into the amended
budget figures and presented to council later so all changes could be made in
one amendment. Mrs. Yeager could go ahead and solicit bids since hopefully the
budget amendment would precede her March 16 date for bids to be back.
Privileges of the floor ended as no other person wished to speak.
OLD BUSINESS
City Attorney
5- Mrs. Weber spoke of the February 9th special council meeting where no
agreement could be reached regarding city counsel. She had a proposed ordinance
she wished everyone to consider, and re-capped the events of the February 9th
meeting saying the Mayor would not look for a third party attorney. Mrs. Weber
stated that Lawson Walker, current attorney for Villa Hills, had agreed to act
for the City of Independence (see ordinance copy attached).
6- Motion was made to read the Ordinance (Holten/Henson). Mrs. Weber read the
ordinance. Motion was made to accept the reading (R Weber/Henson). Before the
vote, Mr. Holten asked the Mayor if he could live with this decision. The Mayor
responded he was bothered because a compromise could have been reached through
further negotiation, and that the suit is not resolved by this action. Also, he
was bothered by the comment that Mr. Wichmann would be in violation or conflict
due to the ouster suit, since he had planned to release Mr. Wichmann from that
suit if hired by the City. The Mayor wished to proceed with negotiations.
7- Mr. Holten questioned if the Mayor was concerned about the interim, and
while the Mayor allowed that he was, he still wished to make more effort before
closing this situation.
8- Mrs. Henson asked to re-cap the events of February 9th saying litigation was
pending, and due to irreconcilable differences, including the ouster suit, no
decision was reached on a city attorney. She commented about research she had
done and that the she was not willing to pay city money for back services of
Mr. Wichmann amounting to approximately $ 25,000, since the services were
primarily to the Mayor. She explained that council could not direct the Mayor
to act, since council’s authority extended only to matters of budget and
legislation. If the Mayor chooses not to do what council requests, council
cannot act on this. She asked that a vote be called on the motion.
9- The Mayor commented that we had had 2 meetings on this already, and that
there had been problems, but he commented that Judge Summe’s ruling said
neither attorney should be paid, and there were no guarantees what the court
might decide. The Mayor asked that this be worked out.
10- Mrs. Henson commented she would like cable coverage for future special
meetings since Mr. Wichmann and the Mayor had both stated on February 9 that
they would not compromise on certain issues. The Mayor said cable could
certainly be invited, and continued to ask for adult negotiation and
compromise.
11- Mrs. Weber commented that the ordinance now before council would allow for
a temporary solution so the City could function again. If the Mayor did not
wish this to occur, she would like to hear from him.
12- Mr. Scott spoke about a proposal, discussed at the City Building, which
would allow for Mr. Deters and Mr. Wichmann to iron out their claims to
reimbursement and present their compromise to council within a few weeks. He
asked that the emergency ordinance be held until it was determined this
alternate plan could not work.
13- Comments were made about the immediate need for attorney services, and it
was decided a vote would be taken on this issue. Roll call vote had 4 ayes, a 1
abstention by Mrs. Steffen. Motion passed, 1st reading was accepted.
14- Discussion ensued about the appropriateness of doing a second reading, even
though this was an emergency ordinance. Motion was made to do a 2nd reading (R
Weber/K Weber) with all ayes. The Ordinance, 1998-0-01, was re-read by Mrs.
Weber. Motion was made to accept the 2nd reading (Henson/K Weber), passing with
all aye votes. The document was given to the City Clerk for inclusion in their
next packet and for presentation later to the Mayor. Mrs. Henson thanked the
Weber’s for their assistance.
AMENDED BUDGET
15- Mr. Scott requested this be discussed at the next meeting when revised
documents would be available.
SEWERING HOMES ON MADISON
16- There was nothing new to report regarding this situation, so it will come
back as Old Business.
CITY CLASS STATUS
17- Mr. Scott updated council regarding 3rd and 4th class city status. He still
has not received formal information to present to council, but will address
this soon.
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE
18- Mrs. Henson commented that due to other pressing city concerns, neither the
Personnel nor the Parking Committee had met. She hoped to have meetings within
the next 2 weeks. Mrs. Henson felt not having interim counsel for the city had
an impact on the above-stated pressing city concerns.
PLANNING SESSION
19- The Mayor asked council if they wished to wait on this until we had an
attorney. It was decided, after some discussion, that a meeting be called to
deal with the outstanding issue of Mr. Deters and Mr. Wichmann. No date could
be set at the meeting, but the Mayor said he would contact council members and
others himself to see how many could attend a meeting held on February 17th.
POLICE DEPT. REPORT
20- Chief Porter said there would be a Block Watch Meeting on Saturday,
February 28th at 1:30 p.m. at the Kenton County Library for Lakefield
subdivision residents. On Friday, February 20th, 2 officers, Gill and Paul,
will graduate. Past services were normally at 10:00 a.m., but the Chief will
provide information on the time to council.
BUILDING INSPECTOR REPORT
21- Mr. Bowling said he had several concerns to bring to council. He began with
a request for a refund of sewer tap fee for a resident at Richardson/Turkeyfoot
Roads. The refund was requested because the owner opted to tie into the
Sanitation District line over the City line since it was less expensive to
complete and easier to tie into. Mr. Bowling provided a sketch to council to
review.
22- The Mayor said he had a problem with setting a precedent in allowing people
to tie into the Sanitation District when City lines are available. Discussion
ensued as to the “flow” of this line, with Mr. Briggs being asked to do a grade
shoot to help determine if there was a hardship to the resident/developer. Mr.
Briggs agreed with the Mayor and Mr. Scott regarding setting an unfortunate
precedent, and that verification would be needed that there was a problem in
tapping in to the City line.
23- Mr. Bowling was concerned about the Independence Town Center area. There
are 3 zones in that area, some requiring underground utilities and some not.
There was discussion concerning brick wrap of buildings in this area, and
Mr.Bowling asked for direction on how to proceed with the developers.
24- Mr. Holten and others spoke about the intent of the wording in the
ordinance in that it was to encompass the entire city. (ordinance referred to
has been copied and sent to council: 1996-0-21) Mr. Steve Feldhaus commented
that the ordinance was set for residential, not commercial property.
25- The Mayor commented about the original ordinance in 1994 under which
conditions were set for the entire zone. Later, in 1996, an underground utility
ordinance may have amended this. Mr. Bowling said he would have an engineer at
the next meeting, and that he had already faxed and called the developer to
make them aware of his concerns.
26- Mr. Bowling and Mr. Bruce Wong, of NKAP, had inspected the Cherokee Auto
Parts site, and recently revisited it. Mr. Bowling commented there had been 80%
removal of cars, and more removal will follow.
27- The Mayor asked if any progress had been made in dealing with Mr. Goodman,
of Wayman Drive. No action seems to have been taken by Mr. Goodman to comply,
and both Mr. Wong and Mr. Bowling said the matter probably needed to be taken
to court. Mr. Scott spoke about the Board for Code Enforcement he was working
on, and how this could be handled in future.
28- Mr. Holten said this Board was a do-able project and steps should be taken
to get it moving. He commented it could be one of the first works of Lawson
Walker to look into this project. Mrs. Henson concurred the Board is a good
idea, and she had brought back information from a KLC convention regarding it.
Mr. Scott explained that Ethics Board members could be used for this, by
expanding their scope, so new personnel would not have to be looked for.
29- Mrs. Henson asked if non-residents could be citation officers, and Mr.
Scott says he believes so, but will check, but it would seem sensible they be
outside the city.
30- Mr. Bowling returned to the topic of the Independence Town Center and said
he would notify the engineer that underground utilities applied to all the
zones, and told council to be prepared for developers to attend the next
meeting with questions and comments. Mr. Holten asked if a stop-order had been
issued, but Mr. Bowling said he would wish to speak with Lawson Walker before
doing something of that nature. Discussion ended with notification to
developers being a better option as a first step than a stop-order.
31. Mr. Wong provided a written and oral update on zoning services, with
information on how busy the city had been in this regard. He talked about
building permits issued, Board of Adjustment actions, complaints and their
status, and 73 zoning inquiries in the one month period.
ENGINEER’S REPORT
31- Mr. Briggs had general items he wished to update council on, including the
proposed street budget/wish list he had provided earlier to the Mayor.
Regarding Holten Drive, total replacement seems to be required, with decisions
being made about how to fund this.
32. Mr. Briggs has been updating Mr. Scott weekly at staff meetings. He brought
up concerns about the A O Smith company, which will be contacted with an
official order to act in regard to clogged lines. The Sanitation District has
expressed to A O Smith they are tired of clearing out these lines. Mr. Briggs
asked to be advised about the upcoming Planning Session so he can advise
council and be a part of those proceedings.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
33- Mr. Scott said the Personnel Committee issue had already been addressed, so
he would comment on the need for a committee regarding a new building for the
Police Department. No committee had yet been formed, but Mrs. Henson expressed
interest in being on such a committee. The Mayor said he would respond on this
within a week.
MAYOR’S REPORT
34- The Mayor said he has not had much to report on lately. However, there is
an upcoming Mayor’s Meeting set for Saturday, February 14th at the City
Building. Also, the Northern Kentucky Municipal Government League is going to
meet Thursday, February 19th at the Courthouse here in the city.
ADJOURNMENT
35- With no further business or comments, motion was made to adjourn (Henson/
K Weber), with all ayes. The meeting was officially adjourned.
               _________________________
               Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
____________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
February 17, 1998
City of Independence
Special Council Meeting
Minutes
Mayor Gabbard called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. at the Courthouse. He
explained the purpose of the meeting was to discuss and take possible action on
Legal Services Contracts, and the Kenton Circuit Court Action # 97-CI-00594.
No other topics would be up for discussion.
Roll call was answered by all 6 council members.
The Mayor began by saying he had a proposal to place before council. No one was
present representing the Deters firm, nor was Mr. Wichmann present. The Mayor
explained his position as follows:
   - hire Mr. Frank Wichmann through December 31, 1998, and set a reasonable
fee for this service
   - any conflict of interest seen by council in Mr. Wichmann’s representation
of the Mayor in the ouster suit would be nullified by Mr. Wichmann being
released from that role and the Mayor hiring another attorney.
   - Council had appeared unwilling to pay Mr. Wichmann for his past services,
and the Mayor agreed to pay him $ 0.00 for the past 10 months.
   - the Mayor expressed a willingness to pay Mr. Charles Deters for past
services, but only to a point of $ 28,800, which was a compromise from the $
38,000 figure proposed originally by Mr. Deters.
The Mayor asked for comment on his proposal. Comment included concerns over
hiring Mr. Wichmann beyond the end of this fiscal year; concerns over the Mayor
being so adamant about hiring Mr. Wichmann, and Mr. Wichmann being busy working
for other cities.
After some discussion, it was decided that the Mayor should put his proposal in
writing, present it to both attorneys in question, and give them a “reasonable
time frame” in which to respond. The Mayor agreed to provide this information
by fax on Wednesday, February 18.
Question arose as to the other issue of concern, what would be done in the
interim while this is being negotiated? Council referred to the emergency
ordinance of February 10, hiring Lawson Walker on a month-to-month basis, and
asked the Mayor about his plans regarding this. The Mayor said he had not
decided yet how to proceed with the ordinance, since he had been working on a
compromise on the other issue. He said he would review the ordinance, but if he
could not sign it he would like to propose a week- to-week arrangement,
possibly hiring Mr. Wichmann.
Discussion continued about the two separate issues regarding legal counsel: the
need for an interim attorney to handle daily city needs, and the long-term
question of settling the Deters/Wichmann issue.
Motion was made to adjourn the meeting (K Weber/S Holten), with all ayes. The
meeting was officially adjourned at about 7:40 p.m.
                  _________________________
                  Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
_____________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
February 24, 1998
City of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard at approximately 7:05 p.m., at
the courthouse, with Pledge of Allegiance and an invocation by Reverend Greg
Fightmaster of the Beechgrove Baptist Church.
ROLL CALL OF MEMBERS
All 6 council members were present and answered at roll call.
WELCOME
The Mayor welcomed those in attendance, and introduced Officers Gill and Paul
who are recent graduates from police training at Eastern Kentucky University.
The Mayor also asked that anyone planning to speak should sign in on the sheet
provided, and no other person would be allowed to speak if not signed up. Mr.
Charles Deters was the only person requesting to speak.
CITY ATTORNEY
1- Approval of the Minutes was delayed due to a motion (Holten/Henson) to
discuss the Mayor’s veto of the Ordinance 1998-0-01 hiring Lawson Walker as
interim attorney for the city. Motion passed with all ayes.
2- The Mayor opened the floor to Mr. Holten who asked where the City went from
here, due to the veto. The Mayor responded he had made proposals that had gone
unanswered, and that while he had spoken to Mr. Deters re his proposal, Mr.
Deters had not responded in writing with his counterproposal.
3- Discussion ensued as to why the Mayor refused to hire Mr. Walker as interim
attorney, with Mrs. Henson reading aloud the Mayor’s letter regarding why he
vetoed Ordinance 1998-0-01. Comments were made about over-riding the veto, but
the Mayor cautioned that both sides needed to agree for the ordinance to be
valid.
4- Mr. Holten commented he felt the city would be in jeopardy if it remains
unrepresented by legal counsel, and that business could not be conducted.
5- Comment moved to there being two issues to be settled: one being the interim
counsel and the other being the settling of the pending suit involving Judge
Summe’s ruling. The Mayor asked for council to provide something in the way of
innovative counter-proposals. Meanwhile, Mr. Deters had written up his counter-
proposal and handed it to the Mayor.
6- Mrs. Henson commented we were very close to settling and asked the Mayor to
reconsider his veto. Mrs. Weber asked the attorneys in question for their
input. The Mayor read aloud the proposal written by Mr. Deters and explained
Mr. Wichmann’s proposal. Mr. Wichmann stated that council needed to know he had
conceded on most issues, and had nothing left to concede. When asked if he had
yet removed himself from the ouster suit, Mr. Wichmann replied he had not, but
has been searching for someone to take this over. He assured Mrs. Henson and
all of council that the time frame for this transition would be minimal.
7- Vote was called to over-ride the Mayor’s veto of Ordinance 1998-0-01 (R
Weber/Henson) with 4 aye votes, and 2 no votes (Gabbard/Steffen). Motion needed
a 5 vote majority to pass, so it failed with only 4 aye votes. Veto was not
over-ridden.
8- Mr. Weber asked Mrs. Steffen to explain why her vote was so cast, and the
Mayor intervened saying no explanation was required.
9- Discussion ensued about Judge Summe’s decision and the Mayor’s
interpretation of it, with Mrs. Weber commenting that the Mayor is holding this
office illegally.
10- Mr. Deters spoke about his proposal to the Mayor, and requested payment of
$ 35000 (down from the original figure) since he had performed all the duties
asked of him by the city. The Mayor responded that Judge Summe’s ruling stated
the city owed no money to Mr. Deters from March 10, 1997, and that he could
wait to see what the court decided if Mr. Deters would not accept a compromise.
He commented that this could be resolved in one evening, hopefully this
evening.
11- The Mayor talked about council possibly appropriating money to pay Mr.
Wichmann but that he would not agree to hiring a new attorney until this was
settled. Discussion ensued as to paying Mr. Deters $ 35,000 as requested if he
would withdraw from the law suit, and a motion was made to this effect (Henson/
R Weber). Motion was later withdrawn.
12- The Mayor stated he would be unwilling to agree to this since it includes
no provision for Mr. Wichmann. Discussion ensued as to hiring Mr. Wichmann
through the remainder of the fiscal year, with Mr. Wichmann saying he wanted a
contract that went through December 31, 1998. The Mayor commented that city
staff had worked well with Mr. Wichmann and council could question department
heads about their work relationship with Mr. Wichmann and/or what he had
handled for them. No one on council had any questions for department heads who
were present.
13- Comments were made about lowering the attorney fees in the 1998-99 fiscal
year to bring them more in line with other cities, and since the work involved
has changed. Mrs. Henson said the Mayor had shot down 4 proposals, but he
responded that it was a large compromise to consider paying Mr. Deters $
35,000.
14- Mr. Holten commented he was disgusted with the Mayor’s pettiness and
bickering. Mrs. Gabbard commented that Mr. Holten had been an embarrassment to
the council for a long time. Motion was made to recess (R Weber/K Weber). Roll
call vote had 4 no’s and 2 ayes, so the motion failed. No recess was taken.
15- Mrs. Henson questioned the City Clerk about pending legal concerns or
litigation that required legal counsel. Mrs. Henson wanted to show that the
lack of legal counsel had put the city in a position of jeopardy. The clerk
responded that there were some law suits pending, and some other legal issues
needing attention at this time. The Mayor commented that some of these legal
concerns could be handled by the insurance company involved.
16- Mrs. Steffen asked if the city could pay Mr. Deters $33,000 and hire Mr.
Wichmann through the end of July or August. Mr. Deters said this would be okay,
while Mr. Wichmann said he had given up money for previous services and felt he
should get $ 4000 per month compensation. Mrs. Weber suggested an offer of
$5000 for Mr. Wichmann to walk away now. Mr. Wichmann, in response to a
question from Mrs. Henson, stated he was here to make money. This was clarified
as certainly being a provider of a service for a fee, and there being nothing
wrong in that. Mr. Wichmann maintained he, too, thought he had a valid contract
with the city, and that he had provided services to city staff and at least 2
council members. He claimed his position was identical to that of Mr. Deters.
17- Comments were made by several council members about not being able to trust
Mr. Wichmann’s due to his relationship with the Mayor. Motion was made to pay
Mr. Deters $ 35,000 to withdraw from the law suit and to hire Mr. Wichmann
through December 31 at $ 2000 per month, with no hourly fees (Henson/Steffen).
18- Discussion followed regarding retainer fees and litigation compensation as
an additional cost. Mr. Wichmann was questioned as to retainer fees paid to him
by Taylor Mill. Vote was called with 4 members voting yes to the contract (Mrs.
Gabbard’s “yes” being contingent upon Mr. Wichmann being agreeable to the
contract), and 2 no votes (K Weber/Holten). Motion passed.
19- The Mayor asked for a recess of 10 minutes. Motion was made (Henson/
Gabbard) and was tied at 3 yes/3 no votes.(Weber/Weber/Holten) The Mayor broke
the tie, and recess was taken.
20- Motion was made (Henson/Holten) to return to session, with all ayes.
21- The Mayor commented on his talk with Mr. Wichmann during the recess. He
needed information on where the city stood on litigation, since this
information had not been provided to him by Mr. Deters upon request. Mr. Deters
responded that when he has been paid, the information will be provided or
returned to the city. The Mayor asked that information regarding pending
litigation be provided in writing before Mr. Wichmann has to decide to accept.
Mr. Wichmann and Mr. Deters conferred briefly.
22- Mr. Deters said there was really no pending litigation beyond foreclosures.
The Mayor argued that there is a suit pending (Baker) and then Mr. Deters
commented on one filed previously (Hoppenjans/Maines). Mr. Deters clarified
that everything else was basically cleared up: consolidation of County,
easements, etc. He said he knew of no other current suits.
23- The Mayor commented on bond work, if needed, being done by someone other
than Mr. Wichmann, and that money would need to be set aside for this
specialist. Mrs. Weber commented this would be acceptable, if Mr. Gary Scott is
a part of this.
24- Discussion ensued when the Mayor asked council to say on the record that
they were not opposed to getting another attorney for bond work, and several
council members refused to do this. Motion was made to adjourn (Holten/Henson).
Vote to adjourn was 2 ayes, 4 no votes, (Gabbard/Steffen/Weber/Weber) and
therefore failed. Mrs. Weber asked to hear from Mr. Whitacre since he was here
to provide a report.
25- Mrs. Henson asked Mr. Wichmann if he was satisfied with the information
provided by Mr. Deters on current litigation. Mr. Wichmann said he was, and
would seriously consider accepting if the monthly fee could be increased to $
2200 through December 31. The Mayor commented on being close to a decision.
26- Discussion took a turn into budgetary needs when Mr. Scott commented that
due to inability to pass an amended budget, Mr. Bowling, Building Inspector,
had been temporarily laid off.. He explained about the line item for Mr.
Bowling’s salary being overspent even though a corresponding line for income
generated by Mr. Bowling was there to offset expenses. Mr. Scott commented on
the nature of the line item budget requiring this sort of amendment as opposed
to a more flexible, departmental budget.
27- Comments were made about lack of trust being a reason for the line item
budget. Council had concerns about allowing this freedom to the current Mayor.
Discussion moved back to the issue of the vote on hiring Mr. Wichmann at $ 2200
per month. Motion was made (Henson/Gabbard) to hire Mr. Wichmann through
December 31, 1998 at a monthly fee of $ 2200, with no additional fees to be
paid.
28- Discussion followed about this being put in written form, and vote was
called. Roll call vote was a 3-3 tie, with the Mayor voting yes to break the
tie. Motion passed. Mrs. Henson asked Mr. Wichmann to draw up a contract by
Monday, March 2, and that it would be understood he was not working for the
city until he had a signed contract.
29- Mrs. Henson motioned to adjourn at this point, but the motion died for lack
of a second.
30- Mr. Dave Whitacre, Cardinal Engineering, reported to council on sewer
issues, storm water regulations which will ultimately effect the city, and
other cities’ plans to deal with this. He spoke about flow monitoring going on,
and now occurring in the Beechgrove area. Monitoring showed 4 in-flow problems
at previous sites.
31- Mr. Whitacre commented on concerns regarding new subdivisions abuse of flag
lots, and that in some cases these hinder emergency vehicles. He informed
council they may need to create an ordinance to deal with this concern, and
outlined some options for how to minimize problems.
32- A question/answer period followed regarding sewer work remaining, and
payments for sewer work. Talk continued about the possible need in future to
bond for sewer funding. The Mayor suggested any bonding might be for a new City
Building, The Mayor commented that the city only owes on Fowler Creek, and that
there would probably be a need to bond on this in the coming years.
33- Questions followed about people not being hooked up to the sewer system,
and the City process for following through with these residents. Mr. Holten
commented that the City has an ordinance regarding fines for not hooking up to
the sewer system. He warned that residents needed to comply or face penalties
for not doing so, Also, questions were raised as to street repairs and the
bidding process for street repair work. Comment was made by Mr. Whitacre about
upcoming major repair of Holton Drive., and concerns regarding a traffic light
there.
34- Motion was made to adjourn the meeting (Holten/K Weber), and passed with
all ayes. Meeting was officially adjourned.
               ____________________________________
               Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
______________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
March 9, 1998
City of Independence
Special Council Meeting
The meeting was called to order by the Mayor at approximately 7:10 p.m. He
explained the purpose of the meeting was to discuss settlement of the legal
counsel issue, and that no other business would be discussed.
Roll Call was answered by all council members except Mrs. Weber, who arrived at
about 7:35 p.m.
1- The Mayor opened the floor for discussion or to hear a motion to approve
Municipal Order 1998-MO-01 hiring Mr. Wichmann as City Attorney. Mrs. Henson
had some questions which she addressed to Mr. Wichmann, including why the dates
and other particulars of an employee contract were not included in the
documents presented tonight. Mr. Wichmann explained he was contracting with the
city vs. being hired as an employee, and that much of what Mrs. Henson
requested was included in the documents.
2- Mr. Weber said there was no allowance for a dismissal or clause to remove
Mr. Wichmann. After some discussion on these issues, the Mayor asked if a
separate contract could be provided to council later in the week. Mr. Wichmann
told Mrs. Henson he could have it by the March 10th regular council meeting.
Regarding the “clause for dismissal” issue, Mr. Wichmann assured council that
if he failed to do his job properly, he could be discharged for breach of
contract at any time if the Mayor and council agreed to this.
3- Mrs. Henson commented on specific phrasing of the document, in particular
the page regarding Mr. Deters’ release of claims, wherein it was stated
“doubtful, disputed and denied by the persons hereby released”.
4- Discussion began about the payment term for Mr. Wichmann and concerns that
Mr. Bridges, who would take over for Mr. Wichmann in the lawsuit involving
Mayor Gabbard., might make a motion which would delay the suit coming to an
end. Mr. Wichmann stated that a continuance would probably not be granted to
Mr. Bridges, assuming he did ask for one. Mrs. Henson was reluctant to approve
the Municipal Order until she had a guarantee.
5- The Mayor suggested a 5 minute recess might be helpful, and motion was made
to do so (Gabbard/Holten). Vote was a 3-3 tie, with the Mayor breaking the tie
by voting for the recess.
6- Motion was made to return to session (Holten/Henson) with all ayes.
7- The Mayor said that after some discussion during the recess, it seemed
possible to agree that any action of Mr. Bridges should be limited to a
voluntary action as opposed to a possible health issue which could cause a
delay in changeover. This was agreed to after minimal discussion.
8- Mrs. Henson returned to the phrasing issue. It was decided to add wording
saying that Mrs. Henson, Mr. and Mrs. Weber and Mr. Holten take exception to
this because they agree Mr. Deters has/had a valid claim. Mr. Deters provided
changed wording to the Clerk for inclusion in the document.
9- Motion was made to approve Municipal Order 1998-MO-01 (Holten/Henson), with
4 ayes and 2 no votes (B. Weber/K. Weber), and comments by Mrs. Henson and Mr.
Holten that their aye votes were for the document with the appropriate changes
made to it.
10- It was agreed that corrected copies of the documents would go to all
council members as soon as possible. After a brief discussion, it was decided
that signing the documents could follow after adjournment of the meeting and
did not have to take place during the meeting. Due to this, a motion was made
to adjourn (Holten/Henson) with all ayes.
The meeting was officially adjourned.
Notation: Documents were duly signed as required, and Mr. Deters was paid via
check the amount stated in the settlement agreement. This took place
immediately after the meeting was adjourned.
                  __________________________________
                  Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
___________________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
March 24, 1998
City of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard, followed by the Pledge of
Allegiance. Roll call was answered by all council members.
1- The Mayor welcomed everyone present to the meeting and asked if anyone who
planned to speak would please sign in. Only representatives from Bristow
Meadows Stage II development (Kiser/Leesman) signed.
2- Modifications were made to the existing agenda: addition of Project Prom and
Behringer Crawford Museum requests for funds were added to New Business. The
Resolution for TKR/Intermedia, Sewering of 4-5 Homes on Madison, and Planning
Session were added to Old Business, with Bristow Meadows being moved to the end
of the agenda. The Mayor also advised council he would ask for an Executive
Session.
3-Motion was made to approve the minutes of the March 9th meeting (KWeber/
Henson). This was approved with all ayes. Motion was made to approve the
minutes of the March 10th meeting, as amended (RWeber/Holten). Mr. Weber had
asked for a comment to be added to item # 12.
4- Bids for Park Maintenance Work - Gary Scott said he had spoken with Donna
Yeager regarding deferring this item until the April 14th meeting, since there
was no critical need for immediate action. Council agreed, and this was
postponed.
5- Behringer Crawford Museum - Mrs. Henson commented on information in the
council packet regarding a request for a donation. Discussion followed as to
spending the money outside the city and on a service funded by county tax
dollars. Motion was made (Henson/Steffen) to approve $ 500 be donated to
Behringer Crawford Museum. Roll call vote was 3-3, with the Mayor choosing to
“pass” and not break the tie. (“No” votes: B Weber, K Weber, S Holten). Motion
was made to contribute $ 100 to this purpose ( R Weber/Steffen) with 5-1 vote
to pass (no vote: Holten). Motion passed.
6- Project Prom/Simon Kenton -Mrs. Weber spoke to council about the “lock-in”
activity at Simon Kenton on prom night, open to students and their guests. This
event helps to provide students with a safe, drug/alcohol free environment to
party after prom.
Mrs. Henson said she could not participate in discussion on this issue as she
felt it was a conflict of interest. Mrs. Weber asked Mr. Wichmann if he felt
her own discussion of this was a conflict since she works at Simon Kenton, but
Mr. Wichmann said it would not be. Mrs. Weber offered to remove herself from
this issue if council saw it as a conflict.
Chief Porter commented on the safety aspect of this event, with the Mayor
agreeing. Motion was made to allocate $ 600 to Project Prom (RWeber/Gabbard).
Vote was 5 yes votes, with Mrs. Henson abstaining. Motion passed.
7- Privileges of the Floor - Since no one had signed in to speak during this
session, council moved on to Old Business items.
8- Personnel Committee - Gary Scott sent a letter out last week looking for
dates for the committee to meet. It seemed impossible to get all members
together, so a meeting might be set which could include the largest number of
members.
9- Parking Ordinance Committee - Mrs. Henson said this group met March 23rd and
have a proposal (given to council at this meeting) which she asked council
members and other parties review. She asked for feedback by April 1.
10- House Bill 509- A copy of the bill had been provided to council via
packets. Council members Steffen and Henson commented on concerns they had
about this bill (which makes fleeing an officer a felony instead of a
misdemeanor). Chief Porter said the language in HB 509 did make the current law
more “defensible”, but he commented that council should “vote their conscience”
on this. Motion was made to accept a resolution supporting House Bill 509
(Henson/R Weber). Vote was 1 yes - 5 no votes (no votes: Weber/Weber/Holten/
Gabbard/Steffen). Motion failed.
11- Sewers for 4-5 Homes on Madison - The Mayor commented that he had several
calls from residents concerning this issue. Cardinal Engineering had provided
information at previous meetings which determined costs to be $ 30,000-$38,000
for this work. It was determined that property owners in question were aware
there would be an assessment for the sewer service, and that easements were not
a problem except for the property of Mrs. Williams, whose family would need to
be contacted since she is in a nursing home. Discussion ensued about how to pay
for this project, and other “pockets” of un-sewered homes within the city. It
was decided that there were too many difficulties involved to combine projects.
Comments followed about the need for easements “up front” before projects begin
and Mrs. Weber asked if the homeowners in question on Madison could tell what
they would be willing to pay to get this service. Motion was made (Holten/
RWeber) to authorize the Mayor to investigate costs for sewering the 5
properties on Madison in question. Vote was unanimous ayes: motion passed.
12- Planning Session - The Mayor asked which of the two dates given to council
would be best for holding the planning session. After some discussion, it was
settled that the planning session would be held May 29 (6-10 p.m.)and 30 (9-
5 p.m.). Mr. Scott and Mrs. Baker will work on location, food, etc. and report
back to council.
13- TKR/Intermedia Resolution - Motion was made to approve the initial
resolution regarding TKR/Intermedia (Henson/Holten). This will be Resolution
1998-R-03. Vote passed with all ayes. Motion was made to rescind the 1998-0-02
Resolution regarding TKR/Intermedia (Henson/R Weber). This passed with all
ayes.
14- Police Department Report - Chief Porter told council that Lt. Shawn Butler
had recently applied for and been accepted by the Criminal Justice Executive
Development Force for 8 weeks of training over a 2 year period. Only 20
officers in the state will attend, so this is an honor for the City and for Lt.
Butler to be accepted. This training is held in Richmond, Kentucky.
15- Engineer’s Report - Dave Whitacre of Cardinal Engineering reported to
council on:
   - flow monitors in Hunter’s Green area
   - Holten Drive estimates which will be coming to council soon
   - potholes on Carrie Way being addressed
   - a walk-through set for Plantation Heights, with comment that the Michels
contract needs follow-up in regard to paying retainange money
   - air tests and subdivision inspections are on-going
16- Questions followed about bids for street repair, with Mr. Whitacre saying
these would be needed by April 10th, 1998.
17- City Administrator’s Report - Mr. Scott said he and Chief Porter had
recently attended a meeting regarding Code Enforcement Boards. This concept is
in use in other cities, and is supported by our Building Inspector, Mr.
Bowling. Mr. Scott provided information to council and asked them to review it.
Mr. Holten asked about the Budget Training session Mr. Scott attended, and was
told that 4 people from the city had gone to this, and we had some ideas about
revenue sources and other ideas which we would share with council.
18- Mayor’s Report - The Mayor commented his report was handed out this
evening, and he suggested that a motion be made to go into Executive Session to
discuss possible litigation against the City. Motion was made to go into
Executive Session (KWeber/RWeber), and passed with all ayes.
19- Motion was made to return to regular session (Holten/Henson) with all ayes.
Mr. Leesman and Mr. Kiser addressed council regarding Bristow Meadows/Stage II.
After some discussion and amendments to the proposed ordinance regarding this
project, motion was made (Henson/KWeber) to do the 1st reading of the
ordinance, with all ayes.
Mr. Wichmann read the ordinance, as amended this evening by council, and a
motion followed to accept the 1st reading (Holten/KWeber) with all ayes.
20- Motion was made to adjourn the meeting (Holten/Henson) with all ayes.
                     _____________________________
                     Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
_______________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
April 14, 1998
City of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
1- The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard at 6:05 p.m., followed by
the Pledge of Allegiance and an invocation by Fr. Berscheide, St. Cecilia
Church.  Roll Call was taken, with four council members in attendance and 2
absent (Mrs. Henson, Mrs. Steffen). The Mayor commented on it having been 3
weeks since the last council meeting, and that Mr. Leesman and Mr. Kaiser be
moved up on the agenda to speak to council.
2- Prior to hearing about Bristow Meadows, a motion was made and seconded to
accept the minutes from the March 24th meeting (Holten/Gabbard). This passed
with all ayes.
3- Bristow Meadows - An update was provided to council on work done at this
site. A motion was made to go ahead with the 2nd reading of the ordinance
regarding Bristow Meadows (1998-0-03) (K Weber/Holten). This motion was
followed by all aye votes. However, prior to reading the ordinance for the 2nd
time, Mr. Bowling stated the builders needed a letter from the city for the
Planning Commission stating the city would allow building at less than the 150’
distance from the road. Discussion followed, with Mr. Wichmann, City Attorney,
asking that he be allowed to meet with Mr. Leesman to discuss this, as he was
confused on this issue. It was agreed this item would be returned to once the
discussion was completed satisfactorily.
4- Park Maintenance Bids - Mr. Gary Scott spoke to council regarding bids
received for work on park and city property mowing, etc. Rowe Group had the
lowest bid, and Mr. Scott had checked out their references. He suggested
council go with the Rowe Group for the work, commenting though on past, quality
work done by Malco. The Mayor also commented on Malco’s past work, its good
quality and Barry Mallott’s willingness to help out. He suggested the city
continue to use Malco, even if the bid were higher. Mrs. Donna Yeager of the
Independence Park Committee commented she liked Malco and appreciated how work
was sometimes “volunteer” rather than charged for. After some discussion,
motion was made (Holten/RWeber) to accept Rowe Group’s bid for the park work.
Roll call vote had 3 ayes and1 no vote (Gabbard). Mrs. Gabbard commented on the
dependability of Malco in the past and that she was pleased with their work.
Motion passed.
5- Mr. Scott brought up a second set of bids, these received on April 6th,
regarding paving and other work at Shaw Park. The lowest bidder was Michels &
Son, with next lowest being from Westside. Mr. Scott asked if council felt they
could vote to award this contract now. Motion was made (Holten/RWeber) to award
this work to Michels and Son. Roll call vote was all ayes, motion passed.
6- Bristow Meadows - Mr. Wichmann returned to this issue after discussion with
Mr. Leesman. He stated that the decision at this point lies with Mr. Bowling,
Zoning Administrator, and not council. The original plan presented for review
was revised to move the intersection farther from Bristow Road, and the builder
made this change, with Planning approving it. For Planning to have concerns
about language regarding the intersection at this date was a moot point, since
Mr. Bowling could approve or disapprove. Mr. Wichmann said he felt council
could proceed with a 2nd reading on the ordinance regarding Bristow Meadows.
7- Questions were raised about whether the current language of the ordinance
addressed prior concerns regarding street lights and signs (fire lane/no
parking). Mr. Wichmann said the fire lane/parking issue was not currently in
the language, but could be added. However, parking is dealt with in the
ordinance (Section B-Page 2), and he spoke about the Fire Department’s ability
to require signs for fire lanes. Mr. Wichmann added language to the ordinance
document to address concerns of Mr. Weber and Mr. Leesman. Motion was made
(Holten/KWeber) to do the 2nd reading of this ordinance. Roll call vote was
answered with 3 ayes and 1 no (R Weber), with Mr. Weber stating she had had
concerns about this development being too close to Bristow Road from the
beginning.
Motion passed,
8- Mr. Wichmann read Ordinance 1998-0-03 regarding Bristow Meadows for its 2nd
reading. Motion was made (Holten/K Weber) to accept the 2nd reading. Motion
passed with 3 ayes, 1 no (R Weber).
9- Health Insurance - Mr. Scott explained that the City had been faced with a
possible 45% increase in costs for health insurance if we kept with the current
plan. After some shopping around, the city has chosen a new plan which is
basically identical to the existing plan but requires each member to determine
a “primary care provider”. Mr. Scott said the new coverage would begin May
15th, 1998, with only an 11% increase in cost. Health care costs had no
increases for the past two years.
10- Sewers for Homes on Madison - Mayor Gabbard commented that he and Gary
Scott had met with residents in the area between Carrie Way and the Christian
Church. There is currently one “bootleg” hookup with the resident paying a
sewer bill plus cost of tapping in. Mr. Holten asked the Mayor to check if the
resident was paying toward a sewer assessment (CBD - Central Business
District). The Mayor continued that only 2 homes no required sewers, and talk
ensued about prohibitive expenses. Mr. Dan Briggs, Cardinal Engineering, said
residents could purchase grinder pumps and run lines to the nearest manhole
with an expense (by plumber) of approximately $6500, with the resident paying
for any maintenance. The Mayor said the Christian Church had given these
residents permission to tap in to their manhole.
11- Concerns were raised about the grinders vs. tying in to the sewer line, as
well as procuring easements from residents (Miss Williams in particular). Mr.
Holten suggested the city put 2 options before the residents in question and
let them decide which option to take. The Mayor questioned why a plumber’s cost
could be $6500 when Cardinal’s estimates for work were double this amount. Mr.
Briggs commented on engineer fees, controlled fill costs and providing an 8”
line vs. a 4” line. It was decided that Mr.Briggs, Mr. Scott and others meet
regarding securing easements and getting work done. Mr. Holten asked it work
could be completed by summers’ end, but Mr. Briggs said this would depend on
the residents.
12- Mayor Gabbard asked about the 12 unit apartment building at Richardson. As
this is part of Mr. Bowling’s report, it will be addressed later in the
meeting.
13- Planning Session - Mr. Scott said he is working on this agenda. The Mayor
asked for input from council by next week. Dates are set for May 29th and 20th,
at Beechgrove Clubhouse. Times are 6-10 p.m. Friday, 9-5 p.m. Saturday. Agendas
will be forthcoming.
14- Personnel Committee Update - Mr. Scott said the committee met a few weeks
ago and made some headway. Four members were present for the meeting. Next
meeting date is set for April 20th with a June date for the “finished product”.
15- Mr. Holten asked about the Parking Ordinance. Mr. Wichmann said it was not
on this agenda since changes had been made to the ordinance language and he had
not had an opportunity to meet with Mrs. Henson to review them. This could be
an agenda item for the April 28th meeting.
16- Police Department - Chief Porter commented that Lt. Butler is currently in
Richmond for the first of his training events. Questions were addressed to
Chief Porter about recent vandalism (re a letter from a resident on Flintlock).
Chief Porter responded s to how the department had already responded and on
plans to deal with this in future. He said these were isolated events involving
the same people. The Mayor said he will be meeting or talking with residents on
Flintlock to address this issue.
17- Cardinal Engineering - Dan Briggs spoke about the Northern Kentucky
Land Development Commission hearing, and asked if Mr. Scott wanted him to
attend this. Mr. Scott said yes. Also, Mr. Briggs spoke about storm water
concerns at Production  Drive,  showing a map of 4 plats with no easements for
pipes. Work on storm sewers there would require easements or cost-sharing.
18- Mr. Weber asked about restoration of Plantation Heights, and voiced
concerns about the grass re-seeding. Mrs. Weber asked about a culvert placement
and ruts that are keeping one resident from mowing. Mr. Briggs said he would
look into these concerns.
19- Apartments Fronting on Richardson - This issue had been brought up earlier
and was now re-addressed. The concern is an on-going problem with a property
owner who wishes to hook into Sanitation Department lines vs. City lines to
save the cost of piping over 300’. Mr. Bowling provided a map of this area,
showing the possible routes of pipes. Concerns arose over allowing residents to
tie into Sanitation lines vs. City lines, and whether the resident could pay
Debt Reduction fees if tapped in to Sanitation’s lines. The Mayor stated that
if it is feasible to tie into a city line, residents should do so.
20- Mr. Holten said the question was whether the owner would be willing to
compensate the city if allowed to tie into Sanitation lines. Mr. Wichmann said
that to tap in to city lines required a building permit. After some discussion,
it was decided that Mr. Wichmann would look into city ordinances regarding
sewer lines and discuss his findings with the Mayor. Mr. Bowling stated this
was his only issue for his report.
21- Mr. Holten asked whether the city is waiting on mandates regarding Storm
Water Systems or proceeding on it. Mr. Wichmann spoke about changes in recent
legislation on Storm Water issues and that he has not received most recent
language changes. Discussion followed regarding obtaining this legislation
information. Also, there were concerns about whether the city will be mandated
on how to act. The Mayor spoke about information he and Mr. Scott gathered
down-state: that cities in the Sanitation District has no choice, but
Independence and Alexandria would have to “contract” with Sanitation for sewage
in order to get their assistance with storm drains. It was decided that this
issue needed to be on the agenda for the Planning Session, and that no
committee meeting should be held prior to obtaining legislative updates on this
issue.
22- Dan Briggs spoke about an effective date of March 1, 1999 with an 8 yr-
9 month period for compliance. Discussion followed about effective dates, EPA
rules and other concerns. It was decided that Mr. Wichmann research this issue
and get back to council as soon as possible (certainly prior to the Planning
Session dates of May 29-30).
23- City Administrator - Gary Scott said he had asked Mr. Wichmann to prepare
an ordinance document relating to the Code Enforcement Board. This was provided
to council this p.m. The Mayor asked if council wanted to review it now and do
a first reading. It was decided this was also a good item for the Planning
Session and that there were too many questions for a reading to take place at
this time. Mr. Scott asked that council contact him regarding questions or
concerns so these could be addressed prior to the Planning Session, or at least
known so they could be addressed at that time.
24- Mr. Wichmann commented that the model for this ordinance (from Bellevue and
Dayton) was considerably longer than his version since he did not wish to
repeat statutory language. He explained that if statutes were revised, such
language in ordinances could be a problem. Mr. Scott said original statutes
required 5 people on this panel, but now only 3 were required. Mr. Wichmann
said he preferred to have 5-7 people on this panel to provide for more
flexibility, but he did allow it would make the task more difficult to get that
many people to serve.
25- With business completed, motion was made to adjourn (K Weber/Holten),
followed by all ayes. Meeting was officially adjourned.
                  ___________________________________
                  Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
__________________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
April 28, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
1.   Mayor Gabbard called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Roll call was answered by Council Members Rebecca Weber, Jaimie
Henson, Ken Weber, Anita Steffen and Barbara Gabbard. Council Member, Scott
Holten arrived at 7:09 p.m., after roll call was taken. Also in attendance was
the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Frank Wichmann.
2.   Ken Weber made a motion to approve the minutes of the April 14, 1998
Council Meeting as amended. Barbara Gabbard seconded the motion. Motion carried
with five ayes and one abstain vote cast by Mrs. Henson.
3.   Mayor Gabbard introduced Ms. C.G.Eubel as the new city employee hired as
the Finance Director. Council welcomed her; Mr. Holten stated that he was
looking forward to her advise.
4.   Jeff Klump, a representative of National Contructors appeared before
council to discuss the first floor brick wrap requirement for the apartments
(Brentwood of Independence & Townhomes at Lake Independence) being constructed
behind the Independence Towne Center. Mr. Klump stated that the first building
in the Brentwood development is nearly completed and hopes to have tenants
occupy the building by June 1, 1998. The first building has been vinyl sided on
the first floor. He stated that the drawing was approved by NKAPC and city
council. The contractors were not aware of the brick wrap requirement until a
couple of weeks ago when the city building inspector stopped by the development
and informed the superintendent of this building stipulation. In order to
comply with the brick wrap, the foundations would need to be re-designed at a
substantial cost to the developer. Mayor Gabbard informed Mr. Klump that the
property owner agreed to this requirement in 1994 when granted the zone change
to develop this land. Mrs. Gabbard stated that while she did not want to add to
their costs she feels that they should comply with the 1994 ordinance. Mrs.
Henson stated that while she does not agree with the brick wrap requirement the
ordinance is very clear, and that it is not the city’s fault that the
qualifying factors put on the zone change was overlooked by the developers. Mr.
Holten commented that the 1994 ordinance supercedes the building plans. Mr.
Weber asked Mr. Klump if a ledger attached to the foundation will have a
negative effect on the construction as opposed to a concrete footer. Mr. Klump
stated that it shouldn’t, but that he would have to consult with a structural
engineer. Mr. Klump commented that attaching a ledger would be the least
expensive route to take in order to comply with the brick wrap requirement.
Mrs. Weber told Mr. Klump that she felt the city could not make exceptions for
some builders/developers and not others.
5.   Mayor Gabbard asked Mr. Klump who was going to take the responsibility for
the 5-acre retention pond being built. Mr. Klump said he would need to ask the
developer.
6.   Scott Holten made a motion to recess into executive session for the
purpose of discussing possible litigation. The motion was seconded by Jaimie
Henson. The city attorney, Frank Wichmann, commented that he didn’t know if
this subject warranted an executive session. Mr. Holten strongly felt this
could be a possible lawsuit in the future. Motion carried with all ayes.
Executive session commenced at 7:30 p.m.
7.   At 7:44 p.m. Barbara Gabbard made a motion to return to regular session,
seconded by Rebecca Weber. Motion carried with all ayes.
8.   Mayor Gabbard stated that no action was taken in executive session. He
stated the consensus of council was that the brick wrap had to be added as
required by the zoning change ordinance for this property as was agreed to by
the owners. Mr. Klump stated that he would relay that information to the
parties involved and was unsure if the owner would consider this a dead issue
and comply or consult his attorney about further action. Mr. Klump asked for a
copy of the zoning ordinance which council talked about that was passed on that
development. Mr. Wichmann stated that the stipulations on that development were
not part of the regular zoning ordinance. He explained that when an application
is made for a zoning map amendment, it is required that a development plan be
submitted. At the time when the zone and/or annexation change is granted,
restrictions can be attached.
9.   Donna Yeager, Chairman of the Independence Recreation Committee, reported
that the city had received a $25,000 donation toward the construction of the
amphitheater in the Shaw Road Park. Ms. Yeager informed council that parking
lot construction bids had been received for both the Hartland Park and the Shaw
Road Park. The low bid for the Hartland parking lot exceeded the amount
budgeted for this project, so she requested council transfer approximately
$12,000 from the Shaw Park construction line item in the budget to the Hartland
Park construction line item. That would leave enough in the Shaw Park
construction line item to cover the low bid for the Shaw Park parking lot. Gary
Scott, City Administrator, explained that the construction cost for the
Hartland parking lot was underestimated.
10.   Mr. Weber made a motion to transfer money from Shaw Park construction to
Hartland Park construction as needed to accept the low bids. The motion was
seconded by Jaimie Henson. Mayor Gabbard stated that had to be done as part of
the amended budget. Ms. Yeager asked if council would vote on awarding the bid.
The Mayor stated that a second reading of the amended budget ordinance would
need to take place before awarding the bid. There was a brief discussion on
splitting the contract so the bid could be awarded and the contractor could
begin work. Mr. Wichmann stated that the contract could be awarded but that a
contract could not be signed until the funds were appropriated in the budget.
Mr. Weber withdrew his motion and Mrs. Henson withdrew her second.
11.   Jaimie Henson made a motion to accept the low bid ($48,748.00) by
Schumacher Dugan for construction of the Hartland Park parking lot and grading
for the play ground, contingent upon reference checks by the City
Administrator. Scott Holten seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with
all ayes. Motion carried.
12.   Under new business, Gary Scott informed council of the need to set new
sewer rates and maintenance charges for the General and Fowler Creek Sewer in-
house billing. Currently the Sanitation District is collecting these fees for
the city. The plan is to begin the billing in July. Ordinance No. 5-2-80 will
need to be amended before starting the new billing system as the ordinance now
states that the Sanitation District is to do the billing for the city.. One of
the penalties discussed for non-payment of sewer fees would be to have water
service turned off. Mrs. Wichmann advised that, by statute, the city has the
authority to do this but written notice would have to be sent to the Northern
Kentucky Water Service District. Currently penalty and interest is based on
water usage. Mr. Wichmann stated that the ordinance in effect now provides for
a 10% penalty of the amount due. Mr. Wichmann advised that the rate and fees
charged should be a sufficient amount to pay off the Fowler Creek Sewer bond
when it comes due. Mrs. Henson asked the city engineer to come up with some
city wide numbers to aide council in setting a rate. Scott Holten suggested
moving along with the agenda as the rate would not be set until more
information is obtained.
13.   Mayor Gabbard informed council that Craig Kolb’s second development plan
for the corner of Taylor Mill Rd. and Cox Rd. has been rejected by NKAP&Z. The
city has ninety days from April 2, 1998 to make a decision regarding this
matter; the deadline being July 2, 1998. The Mayor stated that council could
reject the plan, override it or hold a public hearing. He stated that he feels
there are issues that would need to be resolved before overriding the
recommendation by NKAP. Mr. Wichmann advised council that they would have to
come up with their own factual decision based on the same evidence that was
used by the NKAP staff. Mr. Holten stated that he knows of no change since last
submitted by Mr. Kolb and the city has received two recommendations from the
planning commission. Mr. Wichmann suggested obtaining a transcript of the
public hearing held by the planning commission on this zone change and to
contact Mr. Kolb requesting he put into writing the stipulations he will adhere
to if granted the zone change by council.
14.   Jaimie Henson made a motion to accept the NKAPC staff recommendation for
disapproval of the Kolb zone change. Anita Steffen seconded the motion. Roll
call vote was answered with two yes votes and four no votes cast by Mr. Holten,
Mr. Weber, Mrs. Weber and Mrs. Gabbard. Mrs. Gabbard clarified her vote by
stating that while she does not like to see more development in the city, she
felt the surrounding residents were more responsive to Mr. Kolb’s latest
development plan.
15.   Scott Holten made a motion to direct the city administrator to contact
Mr. Kolb and request he put in writing the development stipulations he will
adhere to; and, purchase a copy of the transcript of the April 2, 1998 NKAP
meeting. Ken Weber seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried with all
ayes.
16.   Mrs. Henson announced that May 11th Police Memorial Week will be observed
with May 15th being Police Memorial Day. She suggested everyone fly their flags
at half mast in memory of all the dedicated officers who have fallen in the
line of duty.
17.   Under old business, Mrs. Henson reported that she had not received any
feedback before tonight on the latest changes proposed for Section 9.23 of the
zoning ordinance. Mrs. Weber stated that she felt the issue of going before the
Board of Adjustments to appeal the size of a vehicle would need to be looked
into by the city attorney. Mr. Wichmann stated that the Board of Adjustments
has specific functions which include granting variances, approving conditional
uses and acting as appeals for the zoning administrator. The Board cannot
change a zoning ordinance or a decision of the Zoning Administrator. The city
attorney advised that a new zoning ordinance will not allow for a Board of
Adjustment hearing. Mr. Holten commented that this proposed text amendment has
been “kicked around” for months and he does not see a lot of support from
council to make any significant change.
18.   Mr. Holten made a motion to leave Section 9.23 of the zoning ordinance as
is. Ken Weber seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with two yes
votes by Mr. Holten and Mr. Weber and four no votes by the remaining council
members. Motion defeated.
19.   Council scheduled a Parking Ordinance Committee meeting for May 7th at 2:
00 p.m. at the City Administration Building to continue reviewing Section 9.23
of the zoning ordinance.
20.   Police Officer, Brian Butler reported that the department has received a
federal grant that would provide for the hiring of four additional police
officers. Three have already been hired and they are in the process of hiring a
fourth. Ken Weber asked if the federal funds provided for the cost of cruiser
and uniforms. Officer Butler advised that the grant was only for salaries and
benefits.
21.   Dave Whitacre, City Engineer, reported up-dates on several projects that
his firm is supervising. He stated the restoration work of Phase II (Plantation
Heights) of the Fowler Creek sewer project has not been completed mainly due to
the wet condition of the ground with eight inches of rain that has fallen this
month. He assured council that he is keeping track of the complaints. Also the
contractor (Edgewood Excavating) for Phase IV had asked the city for an
extension of time for restoration work and is now submitting his additional
costs to the city. Mr. Whitacre stated that he does not feel these costs are
justified. He also reported that one of the flow monitors is being repaired.
The Beechgrove area is having a tree root problem along with a significant
amount of storm water influx. When weather permits they will conduct smoke
testing in these lines to pinpoint the problem areas. He informed council that
the mapping is incorrect; manholes did not show up and some are covered over.
22.   Mrs. Weber asked Mr. Whitacre about the sidewalks in the Battleridge
subdivision and he said they meet standards but would have another look. She
also reported that surveyor stakes were placed on Don Williams’s property at
the corner of Skyway Drive and PawPaw. Mr. Whitacre will check on this matter
and get back to council.
23.   Mr. Whitacre reported that the “wish list” for street repairs amounts to
approximately $528,000. There are several areas deteriorating and a lot of
crack sealing needed. Mayor Gabbard commented the budget would have to be cut
considerably to spend that kind of money. Mr. Whitacre asked council to give
him a set amount for road repairs and he would work from that. They are in the
process of up-dating the street repair listing that was done a few years ago
wherein the streets were rated on a scale of 1-5 based on the condition of the
road. Mr. Scott and Mrs. Weber asked to have this list when completed.
24.   Mr. Whitacre stated that a radius repair was done at the corner of Pearl
and Independence Station Road. This corner houses a gas valve which a school
bus was running over every time it turned the corner.
25.   Mrs. Weber asked about the sewer backup in a house in the Beechgrove area
last week. Mr. Scott said they are aware of it and are working with the
resident to resolve the matter. Mrs. Weber introduced Mr. McHargue who lives on
Sassafras Drive. He has not had his property restored to its original condition
yet and now has an overgrowth of weeds along with debris that he is unable to
maintain. She stated that he is willing to wait to get this area restored but
does not want to be forgotten and asked if a weed whacker could be brought in
to cut down some of this overgrowth. Mayor Gabbard said that he would send
someone over to Mr. McHargue’s property this week to clean up the area.
26.   Mayor Gabbard read the letter he wrote to the state in October 1997
regarding the state installing a traffic light and turn lane at Industrial Road
and Holten Drive. He also read the state’s April 1998 response which addressed
only the traffic light. The state said a turn lane was needed or a traffic
light would be of no value. Mr. Weber commented that perhaps the state did not
have money in their budget for this project and the city should request they
budget funds for this. The Mayor said he will pursue the issue and follow up
with another letter
27.   Gary Scott reported the Personnel Committee is still up-dating the policy
manual. Mrs. Weber asked to be removed from the committee as they continue to
meet mid-day when she is at work. Mr. Scott said her input was valuable and
asked if she could she meet at 4:00 p.m. So a Personnel Committee meeting was
scheduled for May 7th at 4:00 p.m. at the City Administration Building. Mr.
Scott reported that he is working on an agenda for the Planning Session to be
held the end of May and welcomed topics for the agenda from council members no
later than Friday, May 1st. Mrs. Steffen stated she had submitted a list and
asked if she needed to re-submit it. He reminded council of the Budget meeting
set for May 19th at the Kenton County Extension Center.
28.   Mr. Scott stated the need to amend the current budget to provide the
transfer of funds for the recreation department as previously discussed at this
meeting and to include a few minor changes. The amendments are:
∙   Auditor Contract - increase from      $6,600 to $10,600
∙   Add new line item - Zoning Administrator Contract   $2,600
∙   Street Signs & Erection - increase from       $8,000 to $20,000
∙   Sewer Fund - Billing Service - increase from    $3,000 to $5,000
∙   Police - Cleaning/Restroom Supplies - increase from    $500 to $700
∙   Recreation - Transfer of $12,000 from Shaw Park Construction to Hartland
Park Construction
1.   Also, Mr. Scott advised council that he has sent written notification to
NKAPZ advising that the city will no longer be utilizing their services for
zoning administration. He stated that the Building Inspector, Al Bowling, would
temporarily take over enforcement of the zoning. Mr. Holten asked the city
attorney how he felt about the city doing the zoning administration in-house.
Mr. Wichmann commented that he preferred in-house zoning mainly because NKAPZ
does not make any decisions and that it would help to prevent prosecution of
zoning violators as it would be monitored more closely. Mr. Scott offered to
schedule a meeting of council members and some representatives of local cities
who have in-house zoning administrators. Mr. Holten replied that he would like
that. Mayor Gabbard said he arrived at the $2,600 amount by calculating $200/
week for 13 weeks (the end of the current fiscal year) of zoning administration
for Mr. Bowling.
2.   Mr. Scott also reported that he plans to back-bill the developers for all
the street signs the city has installed in the new subdivisions. He is hoping
to recover 95% of that expense.
3.   Jaimie Henson made a motion to have a first reading to amend the budget
ordinance. The motion was seconded by Barbara Gabbard. Motion carried with all
ayes. Mr. Wichmann read the amended budget ordinance.
4.   Scott Holten made a motion to accept the first reading; seconded by
Barbara Gabbard. No roll call, motion carried with all ayes.
5.   Mr. Holten commented that he feels the city needs to keep better track of
the Fowler Creek expenses; perhaps the line items need to be more specific. A
discussion ensued regarding the legality of moving monies from the Fowler Creek
fund into the General fund. The city attorney advised that the financing
documents may not allow this and he needed to look at the documents in order to
proceed as there may be provisions restricting the manner in which this is
done. He will check the documents before the second reading of the amended
budget.
6.   Frank Wichmann, City Attorney, did not have a formal report for council.
He commented that is busy familiarizing himself with the city’s sewer and other
important documents. He will be ready by the Planning Session at the end of
May.
7.   Ken Weber made a motion to adjourn. Motion seconded by Anita Steffen.
Motion carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 10:14.p.m.
   ______________________________________
                     Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
____________________________________
Linda Baker, City Clerk
____________________________________
Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk
May 12, 1998
City of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
1. The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard at 7:08 p.m., followed by
the Pledge of Allegiance and an invocation by Reverend Shelton of Grace Baptist
Church.
2. ROLL CALL was answered by four council members; Mrs. Gabbard, Mrs. Henson,
Mr. Holten, and Mrs. Steffen. Absent were Mr. and Mrs. Weber. Mrs. Henson
commented that the Webers were attending a school function and would arrive
late. They did arrive, at approximately 7:40 p.m.
3. The Mayor welcomed everyone to the meeting and explained that the sound
system was not operating for the meeting since we could not get in to turn it
on. He hoped we could all be heard, and encouraged people to speak up for the
audience and the videotaping.
4. Motion was made to Approve the Minutes from the April 28th meeting after
some amendments to them (Holten/Gabbard). Votes were all ayes, and motion
passed.
5. The Mayor reminded the audience members that anyone wishing to address
council should sign in. As no one had done so, and no one requested to speak,
the Privileges of the Floor section of the agenda was passed over.
6. Mrs. Steffen commented she would like to add to the agenda and discuss a
problem of a homeowner in the area of Wedgewood and Clubhouse Drives. The
problem is one of water overflow, especially in times of storms. Mrs. Steffen
provided information to council and others regarding the nature and location of
the problem. Mr. Scott had been made aware of this concern, as well as Mr.
Briggs of Cardinal Engineering. Mr. Briggs stated that he will re-visit the
area and check out the problem, reporting back to council at the May 26th
meeting.
7. Mr. Holten asked if there could be discussion under Old Business around the
issue of the park funding under the budget ordinance. Mayor Gabbard explained
that once the Ordinance was approved by the second reading, the contractors
could begin the work Mrs. Yeager had told them about. As the 2nd reading of
this ordinance is on the agenda for this meeting, business moved on to the next
item.
8. A request had been made by Mrs. Yeager and city staff that an ordinance be
created to address park rental fees and setting a fee for shelter users to
offset expenses for restroom cleaning. Mr. Wichmann said he had not brought
this paperwork with him to do this reading. After some discussion about the
urgency of getting this reading done, it was decided that Mr. Wichmann try to
draft an ordinance for reading later in the meeting.
9. The purpose of the ordinance would be to set out that a $ 40 fee would be
charged at the time of rental application, with $ 25 being returned to the
renter if the site is left in satisfactory condition. The remaining $ 15 would
be kept by the City to offset the cost of extra restroom cleaning.
10. The Mayor asked if there were any other changes to the agenda, and there
were none. He reminded council of the Special Meeting upcoming on May 19th at
7:00 p.m. at the Kenton County Extension Center.
11. The next item discussed was Sewering of Homes on Madison Pike. Mr. Scott
commented that he and Mr. Briggs had met with Mrs. Stephens regarding her
options, and Mr. Scott had later met with Mrs. Stephens brother-in-law, a
builder, to clarify this. The other family, the Williams’ home, will go through
the church property, and Mr. Scott said he is trying to set up a meeting or
have a conversation with this resident, but they keep missing each other. Mr.
Holten questioned what financial assistance would be offered. Mr. Scott said he
is working on getting the easements.
12. To allow Mr. Wichmann time to draft the Park Rental Fee ordinance, council
moved on to department reports. Chief Porter reported that the Police
Department building was recently visited by OSHA inspectors with some serious
and some not so serious concerns stemming from this inspection. A report will
follow, after which the department has 30 days to correct violations. Chief
Porter spoke about searching for temporary housing for the police department
and that there were several options at this time. Mrs. Steffen asked if there
were fines for the deficiencies, and it was reported there were none since this
is a voluntary compliance, otherwise there could be large fines.
13. Also reported was that Cops MORE received approval and 2 new officers had
been hired; Greg Hallau of Cincinnati, and Mike Thatcher of Bowling Green.
14. Engineer’s report was provided in written form by Dan Briggs of Cardinal
Engineering. He explained he wished to provide an up-to-date written report to
council that they can get hopefully right before council meetings. He commented
on work stopped at Plantation Heights due to wet ground, NCC4 being completed
with inspection and release upcoming. He said Quast Paving contracts were
mostly completed and that sewer monitoring was on-going. He had provided an
updated street evaluation list and a memo to the Mayor and Mr. Scott regarding
street lighting.
15. Mr. Briggs asked Mr. Wichmann if Battleridge Phase 4 would be under the
ordinance requiring street lighting. Mr. Wichmann said that the existing
ordinance covered this. Discussion moved to sidewalks with Mr. Wichmann
commenting that older homes were not under the requirement to put in sidewalks,
but the City could choose to put them in and pay for them or assess the
property owner.
16. Mrs. Henson asked for clarification on the street evaluation list and why
some ratings had not changed. Mr. Briggs commented the number remained the same
if only part of the work on the street was completed. Questions then followed
as to the sense of doing partial work. Mr. Briggs explained the idea was to use
budgeted money to keep roads from deteriorating and that some work was simply
preventive maintenance vs. total road replacement.
17. Mr. Bowling, Building Inspector, reported to council on sidewalk concerns
in the city, in particular in Courthouse Estates. He noted that there were
places where the owner refused to install sidewalks and that one area was
asphalted instead of concrete. Discussion followed as to how to get the
developers and builders to be responsible for sidewalk installation in future,
and whether some of these exceptions were prior to the sidewalk ordinance going
into effect.
18. Mrs. Henson asked if there was an ordinance regarding sidewalk cleaning
since it appeared a resident had been told there was one. She commented that
city staff should check their facts before giving information to residents.
19. Discussion returned to sidewalk installation, with the Mayor asking Mr.
Wichmann if our zoning ordinances could address this. Mr. Wichmann said there
is no reason why they could not be addressed via zoning ordinances.
20. Mr. Bowling commented on an ordinance from 1982 that allowed the city to
cut grass at unkempt properties that were declared a nuisance. This ordinance
had been lost from the city files, and recovered by Mr. Bowling through
research. He had given it to Mr. Wichmann to review before applying it to
existing situations. Mrs. Henson commented on a large tree limb down on the
property adjacent to the Police Department, with Mr. Bowling saying he would
contact the owners of the property and ask them to dispose of the tree limb.
21. Gary Scott, City Administrator, reported to council on recent meetings of
the Personnel Committee and Building Committee. No upcoming meetings are
planned for the Personnel Committee, but Mr. Scott will try to set a date with
Building Committee members to meet soon. He said an architect had been brought
in, at no expense, to view several proposed sites and comment. Mr. Holten
volunteered to provide information to the Building Committee on work done in
the past.
22. Regarding the May 29-30 Planning Session, Mr. Scott was concerned that
quite a few council members had expressed concerns they might not be able to
attend. After some discussion, a new tentative meeting date was set for June
19-20th. Mr. Scott had an agenda prepared at this time, and will wait to hear
from council members to see if the June dates will work.
23. Returning to the Park Fee ordinance, a motion was made to do a 1st reading
(Henson/Holten), with all ayes. Mr. Wichmann read this as an Emergency
Ordinance, becoming effective after the 1st reading and publication. After the
reading, he explained a 2nd reading would still be done on May 26th, as this is
his personal preference. Discussion followed as to charging fees to use the
park, and clarifying the purpose of the $ 15 fee that would not be refunded.
Motion was made to accept the 1st reading (Holten/Henson), later restated and
re-seconded to “enact the 1st emergency reading”. Roll call vote was all ayes,
and the motion passed.
24. Motion was made to do a 2nd reading of Ordinance 1998-0-04 regarding the
Amended Budget for 1997-98 (K Weber/Henson) with all ayes. Mr. Wichmann read
the ordinance for the 2nd time. Mr. Holten asked about the transfer money from
the Fowler Creek Sewer Fund and asked Mr. Wichmann about his recommendations
for transfer of such funds. Mr. Wichmann clarified that no funds should move
from a Special Fund to the General Fund unless all bond conditions had been
satisfied. Based on his recommendation, the transfer of funds originally on the
budget document were negated.
25. Motion was made to accept the 2nd reading of Ordinance 1998-0-04 (Holten/
K Weber) with roll call response of all ayes. Motion passed.
26. With all business being completed, motion was made (Henson/K Weber) to
adjourn, followed by all aye votes. The meeting was officially adjourned.
                     __________________________
                     Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
_____________________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
May 26, 1998
City of Independence, Ky.
Council Meeting
Minutes
1- The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard, followed by the Pledge of
Allegiance and an invocation by Reverend Shelton of Grace Baptist Church. Roll
call was answered by 5 council members, with Mrs. Steffen being the only absent
member. She had explained earlier she would be late since she had a school
function to attend. Mrs. Steffen arrived at approximately 8:00 p.m.
2- The Mayor welcomed those present to the meeting and explained the agenda
focused primarily on the proposed budget for 1998-99.
3- Motion was made to accept the minutes of the May 12th meeting, as amended
(Holten/Henson), with all ayes. Motion was made to accept the minutes of the
May 19th Special budget meeting without amendment (Holten/Henson), followed by
all ayes.
4- The Mayor recognized Mrs. Nancy Ballinger, who asked to speak as a resident
of the city regarding the proposed civic/senior center item which had been
removed from the budget at the May 19th meeting. She strongly supports this
concept, and answered council’s questions about what the Senior Services would
assist with in regard to the center and about center activities. She asked
council to form a committee to study the questions of liability and such
relating to a center.
5- The Mayor recognized Mrs. Donna Yeager of the Independence Park Committee
who spoke, as she did at the May 19th meeting, regarding floating a bond for a
community center. She explained that she and city staff were working on a
Federal grant which would require matching funds to build a community building.
Discussion then ensued regarding the possibilities of fund-raising via
residents and corporations, and Mr. Weber’s concern that council make a
commitment to match the grant funds now. Mr. Weber referred to the April 30th
statement showing money available in General Fund C.D.’s that could be
appropriated later, if necessary , to match Federal funds. He commented on the
$ 777,000+ balance on CD’s in the General Fund and how this money had been
sitting there doing nothing since he had been on council previously.
6- Discussion moved to what the city might have in the way of surplus funds
after this fiscal year, and how that information would be helpful in
determining if matching funds could be found from this. The Mayor stated he
would not know surplus figures until after June 30th.
7- Mrs. Henson asked about the recent resignation of Ms. Uebel, who was leaving
her post as city finance/bookkeeper. Mr. Scott explained the opportunity which
had opened up for Ms. Uebel, which she felt she needed to pursue. Comment was
also added that interviewing had taken place with one candidate to fill this
position, who was qualified and also knowledgeable of the Frey computer system.
8- Motion was made to do the second reading of the Park Fee Ordinance 1998-0-05
(Holten/Henson), with all ayes. Mr. Wichmann read the document. Motion was made
to accept the reading (K Weber/Henson), passing with a roll call vote of 5
ayes, 0 nays.
9- The Mayor read aloud his budget message, which had been provided to council
and which is maintained in city permanent files. Mrs. Henson commented there
did not seem to be the $ 453,000 additional revenue compared to the 1997-98
budget, as noted in the Mayor’s budget address. Questions were raised about the
balanced budget not addressing 4-5 concerns mentioned in the budget message.
The Mayor explained his part was to provide the budget to council, and it was
for them to revise it as they wished. The Mayor stated Mr. Scott had asked
council on May 19th to provide him with questions about the budget so he could
be prepared to answer them, and that no council members had provided questions.
Mrs. Henson commented she had held her questions until such time as citizens
could hear and see what was being done.
10- The Mayor asked if council wished to recess so that budget presentation
materials could be set up. Motion was made to recess for 5 minutes (Holten/
R Weber) with all ayes. Motion was made to return to session (Holten/R Weber)
with all ayes. Mr. Scott fielded questions regarding revenue and transfers of
funds. Questions then were directed to Chief Ed Porter of the Police Department
about Universal Hiring, Cops More and Cops Fast. Questions were raised as to
where the idea of the 5% salary increase had come from and why not 3.5% or 2.5%
compared to other cities. Comments followed from council about benefits to city
employees and changes in personnel policy which will increase benefits and/or
pay.
11- Questions and comments followed about leasing vs. purchase of police
vehicles, average mileage, and Explorer’s being cheaper to purchase than Crown
Vic’s. Other questions arose about capital outlay for the police department and
growth vs. spending. Chief Porter commented on keeping training costs down and
pursuing grants as ways of searching for additional revenue to offset costs.
Discussion moved to the Seizure/Forfeiture line (130) and concerns about seized
money or weapons. Both Chief Porter and attorney Frank Wichmann responded to
councils’ concerns, and Mrs. Henson commented she is still working on getting
information to council regarding Seizure laws.
12- Mrs. Henson asked how revenue could increase, departments be cut and the
information on the budget not seem to fit. Mr. Wichmann suggested that council
get information regarding expected surpluses, since this would help them in
making their decisions about the proposed budget. The Mayor and Mr. Scott
agreed to provide a more workable budget at the next council meeting. After
some discussion, Mrs. Henson commented that without the surplus figures and
asset information she felt she could not continue to discuss the budget and
motioned to adjourn. Mr. Scott said he would have information for council by
the next regular meeting regarding expected surpluses. Mrs. Henson’s motion to
adjourn was seconded (R Weber) and followed with all ayes. The meeting was
officially adjourned.
                     ___________________________
                     Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
___________________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
June 9, 1998
City of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
1- The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard at approximately 7:10 p.m.,
followed by the Pledge of Allegiance. There was no invocation given since
Reverend Toole was absent.
2- Roll call of council members was taken, with 4 being present and 2 being
absent (R Weber, K Weber). The Mayor welcomed everyone to the meeting,
apologizing for the delay in starting and for the lack of videotaping (cable’s
equipment was not working).
3- Business moved to the approval of the minutes from the May 26th meeting,
with a motion being made (Holten/Henson) to accept the minutes as amended. This
passed with all ayes.
4- Mr. Holten asked if Mr. Wichmann would be attending the meeting, as he was
not present at this time. Mr. Scott explained Mr. Wichmann was on his way and
would be arriving shortly.
5- The Mayor reviewed the sign-in sheet for people who wished to speak to
council. He recognized Mr. Butler, who was attending to speak on the Daniels
Map Amendment, along with Mr. Clayton. Mr. Butler showed to council a property
map and explained the current borders of the property at Harris Pike and Route
17/Madison Pike. He is asking for a zone change from Residential to
Neighborhood/Commercial. The Planning Commission had approved the zone change
at a prior meeting. Mrs. Henson commented she had received a copy of this
letter regarding the approval, while the Mayor commented he had not received
it.
6- Discussion centered around the unreliability of information on the route and
final plan for the “new” Madison Pike. Council and the Mayor had concerns that
they could not rely on existing information about where the proposed road would
go, and therefore were unwilling to commit to plans for any development at that
crucial intersection. Mr. Butler stated he would be willing to provide
documentation on the road plan from KDOT, and bring this to council. The Mayor
said this information should be provided to the city on or before the Thursday/
Friday that council packets go out, so this information could be included for
council to review prior to the meeting. The Mayor commented that one of the
conditions for this project’s acceptance by the city would be that sewer tie-in
is to the east side, meaning the Fowler Creek sewer project.
7- Discussion then concerned the number and nature of the structures to be
developed. The original plan had called for 2 structures (a convenience-type
store with gasoline service), and a “later development plan” called for a
possibility of a bank, dentist/doctor offices, etc in two other structures.
There were concerns about the outer appearance of these structures (the Dairy
Mart) and Mr. Butler maintained they would conform to whatever is needed. He
commented there would be no “fast food” buildings.
8- Mr. Dan Briggs, Cardinal Engineering, commented about sewer system concerns
and asked for some assurance about the capacity of this development. There were
concerns about traffic problems, but Mr. Butler said this intersection would be
fully signalized and there would be speed reductions for that area.
9-Concerns moved to curb cuts, especially a cut onto Harris Pike. Mr. Butler
asked council to reserve their opinions on this until more information was
available on Harris Pike plans. The Mayor commented on city regulations
requiring curb cuts no closer than 600 ft. Both curb cuts, at Harris and at
Madison, would be in violation of existing city zoning regulations.
10- The Mayor suggested that Mr. Butler and Mr. Clayton reschedule to meet with
council again, and bring documentation regarding proposed layout for “new”
Madison Pike and Harris Pike. Regarding the question of timing, it was
determined that there were 90 days to respond to this issue from the May 7th
date. Mr. Butler was asked by Mr.Holten if he would be willing to abide by the
developmental controls the city might wish to impose, and he said he would be
willing to work on this. He commented the plan had already taken into account
de-acceleration lanes, screening, landscaping, etc. Mr. Butler said he would be
able to work with Mr. Gary Scott, City Administrator, on any developmental
controls.
11- Ms. Donna Yeager, of the Independence Recreation Committee, addressed
council regarding rain delays on summer work at parks. Her concern was that
work might not be completed under the current fiscal year budget, and would
money be carried over to the next budget if contracts could not be fulfilled by
June 30, 1998. The Mayor said that any existing contracts would be paid, once
completed, from the current budget, or council could make provision for amount
of monies owed for these projects in the next budget for 1998-99.
12- The Mayor added an item to the agenda by calling council’s attention to a
request from Ms. Zona King of the Independence Historical Group. This group
will be holding a special meeting on Saturday, June 13th at 10:00 a.m. at the
Independence/KC Library, at which speakers will be recalling memories of the
city. The Mayor encouraged all council members to attend, if possible.
13- Mr. Klump, of Brentwood Construction, had contacted the city office and
asked to be moved to the June 23rd agenda, so his business was deleted from
this evening’s agenda.
14- Regarding the Resolution for the Park Trail System at Shaw Park, Mr.
Wichmann stated he did not have the resolution document ready at this time for
a reading. It was clarified to council that this resolution is not regarding
money or matching funds; it is simply a requirement of the grant application
made months ago that the city state its support of this project by resolution
format. This will be carried over to the next meeting.
15- Regarding the Kolb development of property at Taylor Mill and Cherokee, the
Mayor commented at this time about a letter to council from Mr. Wichmann, and
then read to council and the audience from an agreement coming from a meeting
earlier in the day, June 9th, attended by the Mayor, City Administrator, Mr.
Wichmann and Mr. Kolb.
The Mayor referred to page 3 regarding restrictions agreed to on the
development plan. He commented on a 200’ buffer zone/green space being agreed
to, but that a forced main was not in the agreement. The forced main should be
a gravity feed instead. The Mayor noted that entrances from Cox and Taylor Mill
violated the 600 ft. curb cut regulations of the city and had concerns that no
easement was held on property across the street on Mills Road. The Mayor said
his major concern was the 1st curb cut off Taylor Mill, since he sees this as a
safety concern. He also referred to minutes from a December 1997 meeting and
questioned the “underground storm water system”. Mr. Kolb said he could clarify
that later.
16- The Mayor also referred to the traffic engineer’s report (page 5) and had
concerns that the state would not agree to “signalize” this entrance at Cox and
Taylor Mill. If not, that would be a major problem. The Mayor opened the floor
to discussion among council members. Mr. Holten said he felt the city owed it
to Mr. Kolb to make a decision tonight. Mrs. Gabbard commented she had concerns
also about the entrances off Taylor Mill. Mr. Wichmann responded to a concern
of Mrs. Henson’s about the obtaining of the easement on the property at Mills
Road and said that Mr. Kolb was committed at the earlier meeting on June 9 to
obtaining that easement since without it, the development could not proceed.
Mr. Kolb agreed to developmental controls the city requested but held firm that
the entrances were critical to the success of the development since many of the
businesses required “quick in/ quick out” access.
17- After some clarification from Mr. Wichmann as to council’s duty in this
process, the topic moved to providing sewer access to residents on Jimae, which
Mr. Kolb agreed would occur whether via a pump station operation or gravity
feed. He did comment he needed easements from 2 property owners (Ogden and
Clayton) for the gravity feed, or he had the option of crossing the street to
tie in. Either way this would serve Jimae residents and Mr. Holten clarified
this meant those residents would be paying into the Fowler Creek debt
reduction.
18- Mr. Holten made a motion to override Planning and Zoning’s decision
regarding the zone change. The Mayor explained the motion would need to be
modified. After another attempt to make a motion, the Mayor asked if council
would consider a 5 minute recess to discuss the motion language. Motion was
made to recess for 5 minutes (Henson/Gabbard), with all ayes.
19- Motion was made to return to session (Holten/Steffen) with all ayes. Mr.
Holten said he would make a motion (to override the Planning and Zoning
decision) using the language prepared by Mr. Wichmann and he read it verbatim
from the offered statement.
Motion was seconded by Mrs. Henson, followed by a 2-2 vote (yes=Henson, Holten;
no=Steffen, Gabbard). The Mayor explained that a vote to override Planning and
Zoning required 4 “yes” votes, and this was not a situation where he could
break the tie vote. The motion failed.
20- The Mayor asked for departmental reports, beginning with Chief Porter of
the Police Department. Chief Porter said the 4th and final officer hired under
grant this year will start on June 25th. The officer is Ms. Tanya Paul. He
commented on the annual reports given out to council at the last meeting,
saying more were available if needed. Feedback was given as to this annual
report.
21- The Mayor commented that the Police Department will be moving to temporary
headquarters on the second floor of the Independence/Kenton Co. Courthouse. He
said an arrangement had been worked out with county regarding costs. No rent
would be charged, but any extra expenses incurred by the county on gas/electric
bills, for instance, would be payable by the city. Chief Porter said the move
could be completed by July 1. Council had varying comments about moving of
equipment.
22- Mrs. Henson asked that there be consideration for an outside phone at the
new site and comments were made about signs to note the change of location.
Chief Porter said the department could remain as long as 2 years in that
location before outgrowing it.
23- Mrs. Steffen brought up the concerns about violence in the schools, and
discussion followed as to how to address these concerns, with Chief Porter
urging a program of education at school sites (as is done at St. Cecilia) along
with on-site visitation at random times to provide a presence on school
property.
24- Mr. Al Bowling, Building Inspector/Zoning Administrator, addressed council
and told them May 1998 was the busiest recorded month for building permits in
the city’s history, but he expects June 1998 may even exceed those figures. He
commented he has been issuing zoning permits since June 1, 1998. He provided an
additional handout to council on zoning violations that had not been ready for
the packet materials.
25- Mr. Dan Briggs, of Cardinal Engineering, addressed council and provided a
written report. He commented that a meeting is set for either June 11 or 12
with A. O. Smith representatives regarding discharge at that site. He was
questioned about the time frame on the sewering of the few homes on Madison
adjacent to the Christian Church. Mr. Briggs stated an easement is still needed
from Ms. Williams. Mr. Holten asked Mr. Wichmann if he would work to get this
easement granted. Mr. Briggs commented that a manhole was needed and a proposal
for this would be given to the Mayor for approval, as it could cost $ 10,000.
Mr. Briggs said actual work might take 10 days, but the time frame for
completion depended on authorization from the city for the manhole.
26- Mr. Briggs commented on monitoring of sewers and said he needed
authorization or direction from the city as to how to proceed with areas
outside of easements. Mr. Wichmann will meet with Mr. Briggs to resolve this
issue. Mrs. Steffen asked about the water problems at Wedgewood/Clubhouse
Drive, and Mr. Briggs said he had visited this site in dry weather and not seen
any obvious problems. He needs to revisit it during a time of rain to see what
problems occur. Mr. Briggs commented on information he wished to give to
council at the Planning Session regarding potholes and street repair work. He
also stated the city needs to be prepared to spend $ 150,000 on sewer repair in
the next fiscal year. Discussion followed as to sewer repair and identification
of problem areas. Mr. Briggs referred to a system adopted by Taylor Mill and
Florence involving a Sanitary Sewer Commission. The Mayor said the Storm Sewer
Committee needed to be resurrected to work on this issue.
27- Discussion moved to Schumacher-Dugan and why work was taking so long. Mr.
Briggs commented that the rainfall had made the ground too wet to support the
equipment needed to complete this work, and that they could argue the delay was
unavoidable.
28- The council moved on to discuss the 1998-99 Proposed Budget. The Mayor
commented he had Ms. Linda Chapman of Rankin and Rankin present to answer
questions if needed. Mr. Holten asked Ms. Chapman about reserves of money and
she explained the city operated on an accrual basis vs. cash. She commented the
city should, as a rule of thumb, maintain sufficient money in reserve to
operate for a 3-4 month period.
29- The Mayor asked Ms. Chapman about a comment made about a balanced budget,
and that the City had never had one. He explained he had presented a balanced
budget for the next fiscal year, and if adopted, this would be the first
balanced budget for the city. She said the 1998-99 budget, as proposed now, was
a balanced budget and clarified that she had been referring to previous year’s
budgets when saying they were not balanced.
She commented that the city budget is “balanced” when the General Fund revenues
and General Fund expenses figures match.
30- Gary Scott explained how the figures for the June 30th balances were
arrived at, and explained these balances were shown as the “carried forward”
balances estimates for the 1998-99 proposed budget Schedule A. It was clarified
that May 30th actual balances would not be available from Mr. Keller until the
June 23rd meeting. Council members Holten and Henson commented on the budget
meetings being held separate from the council meetings due to time constraints
at regular meetings. Motion was made (Holten/Henson) to schedule a special
meeting to discuss the proposed budget. A roll call vote was taken with 3 ayes
and 1 no (Gabbard). Motion carried. Meeting dates were discussed as either June
15 or 16.
31- The Mayor commented he would be unable to attend the Planning Session set
for June 19-20th. Gary Scott said he would review the budget with council from
the first line item through the last, but he preferred that council review the
budget and return with questions on specific line items with which they have a
problem. This would save time, as all line items are not in contention.
32- Discussion followed as to whether it was necessary for Ms. Chapman to
attend budget meetings and whether discussion on the budget should be continued
more tonight.
The Mayor clarified for Ms. Henson his statement in the budget address that he
was comparing proposed 1998-99 revenue figures with figures from the 1997-98
budget as initially adopted in October of 1997. In that particular instance,
the Mayor was not comparing revenue to the amended 1997-98 budget revenue.
33- Motion was made to go into executive session to discuss possible land
acquisition and a litigation concern (Gabbard/Steffen). Motion carried with 3
ayes (Mrs. Henson abstained from voting). Mrs. Henson stated it was not her
intent when saying she wished council to address budget in special meetings to
mean she did not wish to continue to work on the budget at this meeting.
34- Motion was made to return to regular session, with no action being taken
from the executive session (Henson/Gabbard), with all ayes. Motion followed to
adjourn the regular session (Henson/Holten) with all ayes.
                  ______________________________
                  Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
________________________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
June 23, 1998
City of Independence
Council Meeting
Minutes
1- The meeting was called to order by Mayor Gabbard at approximately 7:00 p.m.,
followed by the Pledge of Allegiance and an invocation by Reverend Toole of the
Hickory Grove Baptist Church.
2- Roll call was taken, with all council members present except Mrs. Henson who
had notified us she would be unable to attend due to a family emergency.
Acceptance of the minutes from the June 9 meeting were tabled after a motion
(Holten/R Weber) requesting review of the audio tape in regards to item # 29.
The tape will be reviewed to see if what is noted in the minutes reflects what
was said.
3- The Mayor recognized Mr. Rodney Cain, Judge Executive for Kenton County. He
was present at the meeting to provide information to council and residents
about a proposed jail site in the city, in the area of Webster Road. Mr. George
Neack, Deputy Judge Executive, was also in attendance to assist with providing
information and answering questions.
4- A sign-in log was kept of residents wishing to address or ask questions of
Mr. Cain and Mr. Neack (see attached). A brief synopsis of the 2 hour
discussion session includes the following information: a) the search has been
going on for over 8 years, b) there have been numerous sites considered, with
many being found unsuitable, c) there are lawsuits pending which encourage the
county to resolve the jail issue reasonably soon, d) the most residents
concerns were centered around 3 concepts: safety, property values, and concern
that the jail should be located in an industrialized area instead of a
residential area. Maps were provided to show the proposed jail site in relation
to a proposed dam and water retention area. Mr. Cain and Mr. Neack encouraged
residents to attend Kenton County Fiscal Court meetings which are held 4 times
a month, 2 in the morning and 2 in the evening. Residents will be able to speak
at these open meetings and hear what is going on. Mr. Cain also encouraged
residents to contact their state representatives and senators and tell them
they need to ensure a new state prison be built to house state prisoners.
5- A motion was made to recess after discussion of the proposed jail site was
completed (K Weber/Holten). This passed with all ayes. Motion was made to
return to session (Holten/R Weber), passing with all ayes.
6- Before discussion began on the Park Trails Resolution, Mr. Weber had
concerns that the city not overlook the need to address the Daniels Map
Amendment regarding property at Harris Pike and Madison. This had been set for
this meeting’s agenda, and moved by the developers to the July 14th meeting. It
was noted that they wished to provide the city with “expert testimony”
regarding the road plans for the new route 17. This could not be done prior to
the July 14th meeting. Mr. Weber was concerned that the 90 days to possibly
override the NKAPC decision (to approve the zoning change) began on May 7 and
that if this were not placed on an agenda soon, it might get lost and not dealt
with.
This would mean the city would not be able to override NKAPC’s decision if they
chose to. With information the these developers would return on July 14th,
council was satisfied.
7- Motion was made (Holten/K Weber) to read the Park Trails Resolution. Mr.
Wichmann read the resolution (1998-R-04) for council. This was followed by a
brief discussion with questions addressed to Donna Yeager as to the city
matching the funds for these trails, etc. Motion was made (Holten/R Weber) to
accept the resolution reading,and passed with all ayes.
8- Mr. Holten suggested that rather than discuss the proposed budget, we move
on to departmental reports. Chief Porter commented the move to the Courthouse
facility will be completed by July 6th and operational at that time. He added
that he had extras of the Police Department’s Annual Report and left a few
copies for people to take. Mr. Bowling commented that May 1998 had been our
busiest month ever in building permits, but June will surpass it. He was asked
if he is finding sufficient time to deal with zoning duties and how that was
going, and commented it was busy and he had talked to the Mayor about the need
for time. He said he was dealing more with zoning concerns called in by
residents that in actually going out and finding violations on his own. He will
provide a written report in early July.
9- Dave Whitacre of Cardinal Engineering spoke about sewer lines in the Boxwood
area of Beechgrove having roots in the laterals and that residents would be
notified of this so they could take action themselves. He reported on the
meeting recently with staff at A. O. Smith, and said the company was willing to
be pro-active in dealing with problems and monitoring of sediment. He talked
about recent “marking” of property at both Shaw and Hartland parks, but little
had been done beyond some rough grading at Shaw due to consistent rains and wet
ground. Mrs. Steffen asked for an update on the rain-related water problems at
Wedgewood, and Mr. Whitacre said no line blockages were found there. Mrs. Weber
commented on a call she had gotten regarding residents on Stephens Road who
wanted sewers and were still waiting on Cardinal for feedback regarding their
options. Dan said they would review the old estimates and get back in touch
with the residents.
10- The Mayor added to the agenda by informing council that a new sewer
ordinance needs to be written to address the city taking over billing of
maintenance fees, etc. He discussed setting a fixed rate for residential and
business sites, that the ordinance should state the city would take over the
billing from Sanitation, and that the city needs to define in this document
what areas are to tie into Fowler Creek and what areas tie into other lines. An
example of an existing concern is the proposed development at Harris and
Madison. Discussion ensued about allowing commercial development in these
areas, and whether the city could require residents/commercial users to incur
an additional expense to tie in where the city wants them to (especially if
this assists in retiring the Fowler Creek debt). Mr. Wichmann assured council
the city could require users to incur additional expense. Comments were made
about the size and scope of this venture and a need to act quickly. After some
discussion, it was decided that Cardinal, city staff and Mr. Wichmann had
different duties to carry out to get the preparation of the ordinance, and then
it could be brought before council for vote. Motion was made (Holten/R Weber)
that essentially asked the city staff, Cardinal Engineering and the city
attorney to work together to create a comprehensive sewer ordinance and that
this be ready in approximately 60 days. Motion passed with all ayes.
11- Mrs. Weber asked Mr. Scott to look into getting a read-out from the Water
District vs. using a flat fee for maintenance charges. He said he will look
into this. Mrs. Weber had concerns this might penalize some residents.
12- It was clarified, also, that the city would be taking over the maintenance
fee billing from Sanitation on all residents, not just those in the Fowler
Creek section.
13-    Mrs. Gabbard commented that she had been asked by a resident if the city
had considered buying the property the proposed jail would be on and avoiding
the jail being placed there. A resident spoke to council saying that during the
break, Mr. Cain had commented to him that the city could purchase that land,
pre-empting the jail coming in. This created anger on the part of some council
members because it implied that county executives had been less than open with
council and it confused the issue of whether the city had any say over the jail
coming in or not. After some discussion, it was decided that council members
would contact Mr. Cain on their own to voice their feelings, and also to
clarify the issue of buying the property as a park. There was comment from Mrs.
Steffen about privatization of the jail and what this might mean. After a brief
discussion on this topic, a motion was made to adjourn (Holten/R Weber), and
passed with all aye votes. The meeting was officially adjourned.
                  _______________________
                  Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
_____________________
Linda L. Baker, City Clerk
July 14, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
1.   Mayor Gabbard called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Rebecca Weber, Jaimie Henson, Ken Weber, Anita
Steffen and Barbara Gabbard answered roll call. Council Member, Scott Holten
was ill and not able to attend the meeting. Also in attendance were the City
Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Frank Wichmann.
2.   The Mayor asked the council members if they had any additions to the
agenda. Mrs. Weber wanted to discuss installing additional streetlights in the
Beechgrove area and street repairs in Beechgrove. Mrs. Henson commented that
discussion regarding Section 9.23 of the Zoning Ordinances is being postponed
until an August meeting. Mayor Gabbard stated that there would be a short
Executive Session at the end of this meeting.
PRIVILEDGES OF THE FLOOR
3.   Susie Morehead, a resident of the Harvest Hills subdivision (located
outside of the city limits) submitted a petition to council voicing opposition
to the new Kenton County jail site on Webster Road. She asked if council had
taken a vote on this matter. The Mayor advised her that a vote had not been
taken, it would do little good, as the county has the right of eminent domain.
He also stated that council has not made an official statement in regard to
their position on the proposed jail site on Webster Road.
4.   Rebecca Weber to table approval of the minutes of the June 9th and June
23rd meetings made a motion. Jaimie Henson seconded the motion. Motion carried
with all ayes.
5.   Under new business, Mrs. Weber stated that she had spoken to a
representative of the Beechgove Homeowners Association who said that they were
promised streetlights for safety reasons and want to know when they will get
the lights. Mayor Gabbard stated he did not recall speaking to anyone from the
Association regarding lights, but that the current budget that the city is
operating under does not include a line item for the installation of
streetlights. The proposed 98/99 budget does include money for streetlights.
Mrs. Weber also submitted to the Mayor an invoice for approximately $600 for
pothole and grading work that was done by the Association for which they would
like reimbursement from the city. Mrs. Weber reported that a slab of concrete
covering a storm sewer on Arbor Court is large enough for an adult to get
under. She asked Mr. Briggs of Cardinal Engineering if he was aware of this
situation. Mr. Briggs replied that he is not aware of a storm sewer matter like
the one she is describing. Mrs. Weber feels the city should look into this
problem. The City Administrator, Gary Scott, will talk to a representative from
the Homeowner’s Association about these problems so they can be resolved.
6.   Under old business was the Daniel’s map amendment for property located at
the corner of Harris Pike and Madison Pike. Mr. Gene Daniels along with his
attorney, Martin Butler, engineer for the proposed project, Dwight Clayton, and
George Hoffman from the Kentucky Highway Transportation Cabinet made a
presentation to the Mayor and council regarding their plans for development of
the site for which they would like a zone change.
7.   Mr. Butler presented some general information about the property - it is a
five-acre parcel at the corner of Harris Pike and Madison Pike currently owned
by Mr. Joseph Knapp. It is currently zoned single family (R-1C) and they are
asking for a change to neighborhood commercial (NC). The Northern Kentucky Area
Planning & Zoning staff recommendation was to disapprove the change because it
was not a part of the Comprehensive Plan. But the Kenton County & Municipal
Planning & Zoning Commission voted (12-1) to approve the zone changes to
neighborhood commercial.
8.   Mr. George Hoffman from the Transportation Cabinet updated council in
regard to the placement of the new construction of Highway Route 17. He
indicated that construction is set to begin next spring. He stated that
seventy-five percent of the property has been either purchased or the owner has
been contacted. The plans for the section from Pelly Road to Nicholson are
currently being designed with plans to turn in the acquisition plans in the
summer of 1999. He informed council that they are in the final stages of the
St. Rt.17 development and no alternative route plans are under consideration at
this time.
9.   There was a lengthy exchange of questions and answers between council and
Mr. Butler and Mr. Hoffman. Issues discussed included sidewalks for the school
children to travel, future widening of St.Rt.536, and the type of development
planned (Dairy Mart w/gas pumps, bank, and pharmacy, dry cleaners and office
space).
10.   Mrs. Steffen stated that she was cautious to vote for the map amendment
since the state cannot give an exact final plan for the placement of the new
state route. Mrs. Henson stated she did not feel the need to put another retail
development similar to the one on the adjacent corner. Mrs. Weber stated that
she had spoken with Mr. Daniels earlier regarding this project and said that
tonight’s discussion did not persuade her to vote in favor of this map
amendment. She stated that she is in favor of providing conveniences for the
residents but felt that five gas stations within a two-mile area were too much.
11.   Mr. Butler read a letter from the property owner, Mr. Knapp (who was also
present at the meeting) wherein he states that he feels his property would be
perfect for commercial development due to the current commercial growth in that
area. Mr. Butler advised council that Mr. Knapp should have the opportunity to
sell his property. He also commented that the Comprehensive Plan did not take
into consideration of St.Rt.17 rerouting plan. He asked council to focus on
K.R.S.100.213 and whether current use is appropriate and proposed use is
appropriate.
12.   Mrs. Weber asked Mr. Butler how they proposed accessing the Fowler Creek
sewer line. Mr. Butler replied that Mr. Daniels’ would be willing to work with
the city engineer for the best way to do that, which would benefit both the
city and some surrounding residents. Mr. Daniels commented that there has not
been one person to speak against this zone change. Mrs. Weber and Mrs. Henson
stated that some residents that are in opposition have approached them. Mrs.
Weber told Mr. Daniels that she is not against all commercial development and
advised him to bring his proposal back to council in a couple of years when a
more definite road plan is in place. Mrs. Henson noted that the final
Comprehensive Plan was passed in December of 1996 and she feels quite sure that
the Planning & Zoning staff was aware of the rerouting of St.Rt.17. Mr. Butler
disagreed and said the road plans were changed more recently, after 1996.
13.   After Mr. Butler completed the group’s presentation, Rebecca Weber made a
motion to override the recommendation of the Kenton County & Municipal Planning
& Zoning Commission to approve the map amendment proposed in proceedings
numbered 1349R. The basis of this motion is as follows:
1.     A factual determination from the Kenton County & Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission record of those proceedings that the facts described in the
staff report are true and correct.
2.     The following conclusions from the facts described in the staff report:
A.     The proposed map amendment is not in agreement with the adopted
comprehensive plan.
B.     The existing zoning classification of the property involved in the
proposal is appropriate; and the proposed zoning classification is
inappropriate.
C.     There have been no major changes of an economic, physical or social
nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the adopted
comprehensive plan, and which have substantially altered the basic character of
the area.
D.     There is no compelling need for the proposed zoning map amendment.
Jaimie Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with five ayes.
Motion carried with a 5-0 vote.
14.   Mr. Daniels commented that he has never seen a council prepare a motion
in advance to deny a zone change. Mrs. Weber stated that two motions had been
prepared; for and against the change.
15.   The City Administrator advised council that he would like authorization
to hold a silent auction of all fixtures and unwanted items left in the Police
Station at 5290 Madison Pike since the police department has moved to the
second floor of the Kenton County Courthouse. He also suggested having the
building razed possibly by the Independence Fire District.
16.   Mrs. Weber made a motion to dispose of all equipment and fixtures left in
the old police station and to have the building destroyed. Jaimie Henson
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 5-0.
17.   Lt.. Shawn Butler reported that the police department has made the
transition from the station at 5290 Madison Pike to the new location on the
second floor of the Kenton County Courthouse. He reported they are looking into
an intercom system and signs for their new quarters. He stated that the
D.A.R.E. grant in the amount of $27,000 had been renewed. Also a new grant has
been awarded to the police department in the amount of $22,000 to fund overtime
for Community Crime Prevention. Currently there are six active block watch
programs and this new grant will help to fund that endeavor. Sgt. Ed Bailey is
the administrator of this grant.
18.   Al Bowling reported to council that he is working with Mr. Gary Haynes
who is interested in purchasing a lot on the north side of Marshall Road &
Decoursey which presently does not meet the city’s building set-back
requirements. The current zoning (RRE) was approved in 1980 before this
property was annexed into the city. The size of the lot is a little over an
acre and Mr. Haynes would like to purchase it if the city will give him relief
on the setback requirement so that he can build a house. Mr. Bowling suggested
asking the No. Ky. Area Planning & Zoning staff to make a recommendation on
this. Mayor Gabbard suggested talking to Mr. Wichmann first to discuss the
legal research and get his recommendation. Mr. Wichmann commented that he
thinks if the same person owns two non-conforming lots then it is treated as
one lot.
19.   Mr. Bowling presented council with photos of the Brentwood of
Independence apartment buildings behind the Independence Towne Center. He
pointed out that in the photos the front of the buildings are first floor brick
wrapped, but the rear of the buildings show only the lower level is brick
wrapped. This is particularly noticeable on the side of the buildings. Mr.
Bowling has met with the developers to discuss this and he suggested council
accept the buildings as is. There was a brief discussion surrounding this type
of building condition for future development in the city. Mr. Wichmann stated
that with Brentwood the brick wrap was part of the condition of the zone
change, which the city cannot go back and change. Mr. Bowling advised that in
the future the city should stipulate a percentage figure for brick material.
20.   Rebecca Weber made a motion to take a short break, seconded by Ken Weber.
Motion carried with all ayes.
21.   At 9:25 p.m. Jaimie Henson made a motion to reconvene the regular
meeting, seconded by Rebecca Weber. Motion carried with all ayes.
22.   Dan Briggs, Cardinal Engineering, presented council with a written report
with updates on various sewer and road projects. He reported that Bob Exeler of
the Independence Christian Church has informed him that the church board is now
hesitant about granting a sewer easement to a private individual. He told Mr.
Exeler all decisions regarding sewering that area of Madison Pike was up to the
city. He reminded council that Cardinal Engineering has submitted a couple of
cost estimates for sewers along this section of Madison Pike and are waiting
for authorization to prepare plans and bid documents for the construction.
23.   Mr. Briggs advised council that initial work had begun on Hartland Park
and Shaw Park. The Hartland Park drainage is basically complete but the grading
is unfinished due to a third contractor building concrete park bench pads in
the grading area.
24.   Mr. Briggs also reported that HP Contracting is requesting retainage
money to be released as they feel the work they did on Plantation Heights Phase
II section of the Fowler Creek sewer project is complete. HP’s attorney has
written the city regarding this retainage. Mr. Briggs will give all pertinent
information to Mr. Wichmann. Mr. Wichmann advised council that he would review
this information and send a response letter to HP’s attorney.
25.   Under old business, discussion ensued on the proposed 1998/99 Budget.
Since a new budget was not passed by July 1st, Mr. Wichmann advised that the
city would operate under the previous fiscal year budget by reverting back to
the original dollar amounts. This is specifically addressed for cities, under
the K.R.S. Mrs. Weber and Mrs. Henson said that if this was the case then why
couldn’t the city install streetlights in the Beechgrove area. Mayor Gabbard
replied there was no line item designating money for street light installation.
The streetlighting line item is for the expense of electricity utilities. Mrs.
Henson asked if the current proposed budget had included the carryover amounts
from the 1997/98 fiscal year for the recreation department. Mayor Gabbard said
those figures would not be available until the Financial Report is completed
around the end of July.
26.   Mrs. Henson said a revenue line item would need to be added to the
proposed budget to include revenue received from the auction of the police
station fixtures and equipment. This should be revenue under the general
government department budget, not the police department budget.
27.   Mr. Scott suggested that council address any questions regarding the
proposed budget to him before the next council meeting so that the budget
process can move forward as quickly as possible.
28.   Mrs. Henson stated she was not ready to have a first reading of the
proposed budget, as she would like to look over the recent changes and try to
find more money for the Recreation Department. Mr. Weber commented that the
hold up for him is the road budget. He does not feel $200,000 is an adequate
amount for road repairs especially since the city established the five-year
road improvement program three years ago. Repairs to Holten Drive need to be
addressed; whether to assess the business owners or completely be funded by the
city. Mayor Gabbard commented that the city had spent 1M plus in the last
couple of years for road repairs and that in order to present a balanced budget
the street repairs line item would have to be cut. Mr. Weber commented that
while he feels the city needs to adhere to a three-month reserve, perhaps
council should consider spending down some of the reserve in order to fund
capital expenses such as Holten Drive and a Municipal Building fund. Mr. Weber
stated that he feels the projected revenue is going to increase considering
payroll tax from the two new schools and new commercial development at the
Independence Towne Center.
29.   Mr. Scott suggested that this fall and winter the city start a cycle of
putting out bid specs in February/March for capital expenses.
30.   Mrs. Henson and Mrs. Weber agreed that it is hard to be prepared to do a
first reading of the budget considering they are handed a new budget at every
meeting. Mrs. Weber noted that one of her concerns with the proposed budget is
the salary increases and the fact that some employees are receiving higher
increases than others. She would like to see a breakdown of each employee’s
salary. Mrs. Weber stated that if council is not happy with the next budget
presented to them that perhaps they might form a committee of council members
to draft a budget proposal. Mayor Gabbard stated he thought that was a good
idea. He also advised council to direct all their concerns regarding the
proposed budget to the City Administrator.
31.   At 10:05 p.m. Rebecca Weber made a motion to enter into an executive
session to discuss possible litigation. Ken Weber seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes.
32.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to go back to the regular session, seconded by
Mrs. Weber. Motion carried with all ayes.
33.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Mr. Weber. Motion
carried with all ayes.
   ______________________________________
                     Isaac Gabbard, Mayor
____________________________________
Linda Baker, City Clerk
____________________________________
Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk
August 11, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
1.   Mrs. Weber called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Rebecca Weber, Jaimie Henson, Ken Weber, Anita
Steffen, Barbara Gabbard and Scott Holten answered roll call. Also in
attendance were the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Frank
Wichmann.
2.   Mr. Scott made a motion to have the council member with the highest votes
(Rebecca Weber) to preside over tonight’s meeting, as Mayor Gabbard has
resigned. Mrs. Steffen seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
3.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the resignation of Mayor Isaac Gabbard.
Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with five yes votes
and one no vote from Mrs. Gabbard.
4.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to accept the council minutes of the June 9,
1998 meeting. Mr. Holten seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
5.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the council minutes of the June 23,
1998 meeting. Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Mrs. Henson abstained from voting
as she was absent that meeting. Motion carried with five yes votes and one
abstain.
6.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to accept the council minutes of the July 14,
1998 meeting, as amended. Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Mr. Holten abstained
from voting as he was absent that meeting. Motion carried with five yes votes
and one abstain.
7.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the council minutes of the August 3,
1998 special council meeting. Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Mrs. Henson
abstained from voting as she was absent that meeting. Motion carried with five
yes votes and one abstain.
8.   Mrs. Weber opened the floor to audience comments before proceeding with
the meeting. A resident petitioned the council members to pass the proposed
text amendments to the zoning ordinance Section 9.23 which pertains to the
parking and storage of large vehicles. He stated that he felt the law should be
more lenient to allow residents to keep their recreational vehicles, etc. on
their property. He submitted a petition to Mrs. Henson with signatures from
others who share his view.
9.   Since the resident brought this subject up, Mrs. Weber suggested moving
this topic up from Old Business to discuss it. Mrs. Henson informed those in
attendance that the purpose of the text amendment was an attempt to protect the
densely populated areas (subdivisions) of the city while allowing the larger
property owners the right to store larger vehicles. The proposed changes to
this ordinance were given to council for review and a lengthy discussion
ensued. Mrs. Weber stated that some of the council members felt the ordinance
should remain as is, but were willing to look at possible changes that would be
less restrictive on property owners of one-half acres plus. Mrs. Henson feels
Independence is unique in the fact that the city has several densely populated
areas as well as many rural sections. Mrs. Gabbard commented that she was still
uneasy about making these text changes and thinks it might complicate matters.
Some of the discussion centered on the parking of commercial tractor-trailers
and whether they were owner/operator for a home business or employee take home
vehicles. Mrs. Henson felt the proposed changes would allow school bus drivers
to take the bus home overnight. But it was pointed out that most school busses
exceed the proposed twenty-four foot restriction in the proposed amendment. Mr.
Weber stated that he feels council has tried to work on this but agrees with
Mr. Holten and does not want to make changes to Section 9.23 of the zoning
ordinance. He stated that most zoning ordinances are to protect the citizens
from unkempt property, which is a determent to the city in general. Mrs. Henson
stated that when she first took these proposed changes to the Planning and
Zoning Commission last summer, they agreed our parking ordinance was too
restrictive and would be willing to approve a more lenient ordinance. She feels
it could be enforced by the city zoning administrator.
10.   Mrs. Steffen made a motion to make application to the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning & Zoning for review and recommendation of text amendments to
Section 9.23 of the zoning ordinance as submitted. Mr. Holten seconded the
motion. Motion carried five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Holten.
11.   Under new business, council discussed filling the vacant seat of the
Mayor. Mr. Holten handed out the resume of a resident who has submitted an
application for the interim mayor. Mrs. Weber commented that applications for
interim mayor would be accepted until August 15, 1998. Mr. Holten stressed the
urgency of filling the position as soon as possible. Mrs. Weber reminded the
council members that while the city administrator can sign checks and take care
of the daily business, that only the mayor can sign certain contracts, etc.
12.   The City Attorney, Frank Wichmann, advised council that it would be
safest to fill the mayor position thirty days from Mayor Gabbard’s actual
resignation which was July 31, 1998 and not the KRS effective date which was
August 11, 1998. He stated there is a gray area between the actual resignation
date and the effective date and felt it would be the safe thing to do to name a
interim mayor by August 30, 1998. He also reminded council that in order to
call a special meeting a majority of the council members would need to sign a
request to hold the meeting. Mr. Holten drafted the document by hand and it was
signed by five council members (Mrs. Gabbard did not sign it) and given to the
City Administrator.
13.   Mr. Holten made a motion to hold a special council meeting on August 18,
1998 at 8:00 p.m. to interview candidates at fifteen-minute intervals and
possibly select the interim mayor. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll call
was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
14.   Mr. Gary Scott, City Administrator, read the proposed Resolution
authorizing the city to file for a 1998 Kentucky Community Development Block
Grant. Mr. Scott explained that while the grant is for funds up to $1,000,000,
the city is asking for approximately $200,000. Mrs. Gabbard asked Mr. Scott
what the source would be for the city share of this matching grant. Mr. Scott
was not sure of that yet, but would look into that if the application is
granted. This resolution is just making application for the grant. He explained
that this resolution is council just giving the authority to go forward in
seeking this grant.
15.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to approve Resolution 1998-R-05 authorizing the
filing of a 1998 Kentucky Community Development Block Grant Application. Mr.
Holten seconded the motion. Roll was answered with all ayes. Motion passed.
16.   Mr. Holten made a motion to adopt the proposed property tax rate of $.160
per $100.00 of assessed value for the 1998 calendar year. Mr. Weber seconded
the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
17.   Mr. Weber made a motion to read the proposed ordinance setting the
residential trash collection fee for the 1998 calendar year. Mr. Holten
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
18.   There was a brief discussion regarding the cost increase for trash pick-
up. Mr. Scott explained that due to EPA regulations and mandates the solid
waste cost continues to rise and this increase is passed on to the city. Some
council members commented they have received complaints from residents
regarding Rumpke’s service. They agreed to look more closely at Rumpke’s
contract for this service at the time of yearly renewal.
19.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the first reading of the proposed
ordinance setting the trash collection fee of $84.60 for the 1998 calendar
year. Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Motion passed with five yes votes and one
no vote from Mrs. Steffen.
20.   The next item on the agenda was the proposed 1998/99 fiscal year budget.
Discussion ensued on employee pay raises. At an informal meeting with the city
administrator on August 5, 1998, some of the council members agreed to a 4%
across the board pay increase and to go to a paid time off schedule. The
additional time off would be written into the personnel policy, which is
currently being updated. Mr. Holten felt this would be a good compromise as
money is not a sole motivator. Mr. Weber agreed, commenting that the employees
he spoke with were receptive to additional time off with pay. Mrs. Gabbard
stated that she did not feel the loss of employee moral would be worth the
small 1-% savings to the city budget. Mrs. Steffen commented she feared the
city police department would lose officers with so many other local departments
hiring. Mr. Weber stated that he believed Independence is in the top 50% of the
cities regarding salary structure. He wants to keep and attract qualified
people, but with other line items being cut in the budget this year, he does
not feel the city can afford to give a better raise this year. Chief Porter
handed-out information regarding figures from other police departments in the
greater Cincinnati area. Mr. Holten remarked that they are larger communities
with larger budgets than Independence. Mr. Holten also feels the city provides
a good employee benefit package. Mrs. Weber stated it is difficult to explain
large employee pay raises when money is badly needed for street repairs.
21.   Mrs. Henson commented that the budget was showing additional revenue but
not showing where it was being expended. She recommended the $19,000+ overage
in revenue be put into the Hartland Park to put the park in usable condition.
Mr. Holten suggested it be used for the city’s share of the $20,000 matching
grant the city recently received for park trails. Council agreed to this.
22.   Discussion resumed once again on the pay raises. Mrs. Henson stated the
difference between 4% and 5% increase was only $7,000 overall and she did not
feel this was an outrageous amount. Mrs. Weber stated that the 4% she agreed to
was up from the original 3% that she wanted to give.
23.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to reflect a 5% pay increase for all twenty-
seven city employees in the proposed 1998/99 budget only. Mrs. Gabbard seconded
the motion. Roll call vote was answered with four yes votes and two no votes
cast by Mr. Weber and Mrs. Weber. Motion carried.
24.   Mr. Scott said he would have the changes discussed at this meeting
implemented and asked council to be prepared to have a first reading of the
proposed 1998/99 budget at the special meeting on August 18, 1998.
25.   Mr. Scott reported to council that the new pay plan currently being
prepared, will include merit raises. He hopes to have the entire personnel
policy ready for council to adopt by the end of this year. He will get a copy
of the current policy to the city attorney for review. Mr. Wichmann will also
need to review the revised policy before adoption by council. After some
discussion it was decided to hold a Personnel Policy Committee meeting at 6:00
p.m. on August 18, 1998 at the city building.
26.   Chief Porter reported that the police department has been awarded a
Community Crime Prevention grant. This grant has a lot of flexibility and he
has already increased bike patrol in several areas of the city.
27.   Al Bowling, Building Inspector, reported that he has been approached
regarding a lot on Mills Road which does not meet the city’s current building
requirements but did meet the county’s at the time of annexation. City sewers
are not available for this lot (size is 1.079 acres) so discussion centered on
the use of a septic tank. Mr. Wichmann advised council that if all requirements
are met, the owner could build on this lot without meeting the city building
requirements.
28.   Mr. Bowling also reported that the Shaw Estates Subdivision is close to
recording a final plat. The zoning commission is requesting a letter of support
regarding a retention/detention pond planned on the site. This particular pond
adjoins another lot. Similar ponds have also been designed in the Liberty
Orchard and Reveres Crossing subdivisions. Council asked Dan Briggs of the
Cardinal Engineering who is required to maintain these retention ponds. Mr.
Briggs replied that he is not aware of any edict that makes the city
responsible for the ponds. Mr. Finnell, one of the developers of Shaw Estates,
stated that a homeowner’s association is being formed for this subdivision and
it will maintain the pond. Mr. Wichmann stated that Area Planning & Zoning is
requiring a letter of support for the pond because interpretation of the zoning
is up to the zoning administrator (in this case, Al Bowling) and may be
different from the interpretation of their zoning staff.
29.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to direct the city attorney to draft a letter
to the Area Planning & Zoning Commission regarding this retention pond and to
bring back to council for review. Ken Weber seconded the motion. No roll call;
motion carried with all ayes.
30.   Mr. Scott advised council that he met with a Mr. Meyer who wants to run
city sewer lines to three existing houses near Oby Drive and Madison Pike plus
he wants to build another house, so he would like to sewer a total of four
houses. Mr. Meyer is willing to pay the cost of this himself. Mr. Scott stated
that it is 340 feet from the right of way main line to the rear tap in for
these four houses. A discussion ensued between council and Dan Briggs of
Cardinal Engineering regarding the sewering of several “pocket areas” in the
city. Mr. Briggs stated that he was just waiting for direction from council to
design these sewer tie-in sections. Mrs. Weber stated that the city would need
to treat all “pocket areas” equally, as there are a lot of them. She stated
that one area that has been left dangling is the area of Madison Pike near the
Independence Christian Church. Mr. Briggs stated that he supplied the city with
a cost estimate to sewer this area but was never directed to design that
section of sewer lines. Mr. Weber feels the city should secure the easements
and tie in as many homes in the area as possible. Mr. Bob Exeler, who is a
member of the church board, commented that the church would like compensation
for any sewer easement given to the city for restoration work plus additional
recompense. Mr. Briggs stated that another access would be off Carrie Way,
which would be better served than crossing the church property. He also felt
the design should serve as many homes as possible. Council briefly discussed
making these assessment projects. Mr. Wichmann explained that if council chose
to assess the property owners for the sewer improvement project, there would be
a series of ordinances, public hearing, etc. and this could take about two-
three months to complete. He also stated that if easements are not obtained
freely it could take longer.
31.   Mr. Holten made a motion to direct the city engineer’s office to prepare
reports as required by statute for an assessment project to sewer the “pocket
area” on Madison Pike near Carrie Way. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
32.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to direct the city engineer’s office to prepare
reports as required by statue for an assessment project to sewer the “pocket
area”on Jimae Court and another “pocket area” on Madison Pike near Oby Drive.
Mr. Holten seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried.
33.   Mr. Briggs advised council that a walk through on Phase I in Plantation
Heights has passed inspection and a final release has been given. The 10%
retainage is due and payable to Michels.
34.   Discussion arose regarding the possibility of updating the McMillan Drive
and Fowler Creek sewer pump stations with new impellers in order for the
stations to work more efficiently and be more cost effective. Mr. Briggs
estimated the cost to be approximately $40,000. Mr. Weber asked the city
administrator to research the city finances to see where the money could be
found to fund this expense. He suggested the Fowler Creek maintenance fees
could be used to pay for the new impellers. The possibility of a grant may be
available to “gravity feed” the Fowler Creek pump station. The city
administrator and the city engineer will look into this.
35.   Mr. Holten made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Weber. The motion
carried with all ayes. The meeting adjourned at 10:40 p.m.
   ______________________________________
                  Rebecca Weber, Council Member (Meeting Chair)
____________________________________
Linda Baker, City Clerk
____________________________________
Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk
August 18, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
1.   Mrs. Weber called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. She explained that the
purpose of the meeting was to discuss and take possible action on electing an
interim mayor to fill the unexpired term of Isaac Gabbard who resigned on July
31, 1998. Also on the agenda was a possible second reading of the 1998 property
tax rate, possible second reading of the 1998 trash assessment rate and
discussion and possible first reading of the 1998/99 budget.
2.   Council members Rebecca Weber, Jaimie Henson, Ken Weber, Anita Steffen,
Barbara Gabbard and Scott Holten answered roll call. Also in attendance was the
City Administrator, Gary Scott.
3.   Mr. Holten stated that he wanted to go on record as objecting to legal
counsel’s absence. Mrs. Gabbard commented that she understood that Mr. Wichmann
would be here near the end of the meeting before council made any decisions.
Mrs. Henson stated that she understood Mr. Wichmann to say he would send a
representative from his office for the first part of the meeting. There was a
brief discussion regarding Mr. Wichmann’s absence, with council deciding to
proceed as Mr. Wichmann had stated that he could be here by 8:30 –9:00 p.m.
4.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to move into executive session to discuss
personnel matters. Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
5.   At 8:20 p.m., Mrs. Henson made a motion to return to the regular meeting.
Mr. Holten seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
6.   Mr. Holten thanked the candidates that applied for the interim mayor
position. Those applying were Donna Yeager, Jim Kudera, Robert Scherder and
Marion Schadler.
7.   Mr. Holten made a motion to appoint Jim Kudera as interim mayor. Mrs.
Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one
no vote by Mrs. Gabbard.
8.   Mr. Holten made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance setting the 1998 property tax rate at $1.60 per $1, 000 of assessed
value. Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Scott
read the ordinance.
9.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the second reading of Ordinance No.
1998-0-06 setting the 1998 property tax rate. Roll call was answered with all
ayes. Motion carried.
10.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to have a second reading (the summary version)
on the proposed ordinance setting the trash collection assessment for 1998. Mr.
Holten seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
11.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept Ordinance No. 1998-0-07 setting the
trash collection assessment at $84.60 for the 1998 calendar year. Mr. Weber
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
12.   Next on the agenda was discussion of the 1998/99 proposed budget.
Discussion centered on the proposed employee 5-% salary increase. Mrs. Henson
stated the revised figures in the police department salaries were higher than
agreed on at the last meeting. Chief Porter explained that some of the officers
were due for their 6-% raise they are given when they come off of probation and
some have had increases since July 1. Mrs. Henson stated she does not feel an
employee that was not employed as of July 1, 1998 is entitled to the 5-% raise
nor should they receive a 5-% raise on top of the 6-% raise. Chief Porter
stated that this was the only way to keep pace with inflation and to increase
the starting pay. Mrs. Henson and Mr. Holten disagreed and felt that the pay
plan is addressed in the personnel policy and has no effect on the budgetary
raises.
13.   Mrs. Steffen, Mrs. Weber and Mrs. Henson expressed reservations at having
a first reading of the budget until the salary adjustments are made. Mr. Holten
stated that he felt the budget is a working document and is not “written in
stone.” Mrs. Henson stated, for the record, that she would not vote for a
second reading if these salary figures were not amended by the next meeting.
She also requested a list of employee salaries as of July 1, 1998. Mrs. Weber
asked the clerk to reflect Mrs. Henson’s request for employee salary
information in the official minutes of this meeting.
14.   Mr. Holten made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed 1998/99
budget. Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
15.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the first reading of the proposed
1998/99 budget. Mr. Weber seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all
ayes. Motion carried.
16.   Mr. Weber made a motion to adjourn at 9:10 p.m., seconded by Mrs. Henson.
Motion carried with all ayes.
   ______________________________________
                  Rebecca Weber, Council Member (Meeting Chair)
____________________________________
Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk
August 25, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening Statements
1.   Mayor Kudera called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Rev. Fightmaster of Beechgrove Baptist Church gave the invocation.
Council Members Rebecca Weber, Jaimie Henson, Ken Weber, Anita Steffen, Barbara
Gabbard and Scott Holten answered roll call. Also in attendance were the City
Administrator, Gary Scott and the City attorney, Frank Wichmann.
2.   Mayor Kudera addressed council regarding his interim position as mayor by
stating that it was an honor to serve the City of Independence. He detailed
what he hopes to accomplish over the next four months and assured the members
of council that he will keep them apprised of city business.
3.   Mr. Holten welcomed Mayor Kudera and publicly thanked the other interim
mayor candidates for taking the time to apply for the position. The candidates
included Donna Yeager, Robert Scherder and Marion Schadler. Mrs. Steffen asked
that council and mayor send a letter to the candidates thanking them.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
4.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to adopt the minutes of the August 11, 1998
council meeting, as amended. Scott Holten seconded the motion. Roll call vote
was answered with all ayes.
5.   Mr. Holten made a motion to adopt the minutes of the August 18, 1998
Special Council meeting, as amended. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll call
was answered with all ayes.
Privileges of the Floor
6.   A representative from Intermedia Cable made a presentation to council
about the new digital and internet services the company will be providing.
Intermedia acquired TKR Cable on April 30, 1998. The new services will be added
by August 31, 1998 and will include a single line digital system, 200 channel
options with 130 being digital, high speed internet access, and more pay-per-
view channels. Intermedia will invest $24M in the re-building of the cable
system and it should be completed in January 1999 for the Independence area.
7.   Barbara Hellman addressed council regarding the proposed new jail site on
Webster Road. She read a statement from citizens opposed to the site and
requested support from the council and mayor. Several members of council stated
they have individually attended Kenton County Fiscal Court meetings and have
voiced their positions regarding the jail site. Mrs. Henson asked Ms. Hellman
if she had taken the statement and shared her concerns to the Fiscal Court. Ms.
Hellman replied that she had. Mrs. Steffen expressed her concern that the
Fiscal Court may allow the jail to be operated as a private facility. Mrs.Weber
stated that council does care about this issue and the fiscal court has assured
her they are still looking for alternative sites and the Webster Road site is
not a done deal. Mrs. Gabbard said she thinks the majority of the citizens are
against the Webster Road site and she is also concerned about the privatization
of the facility. Mayor Kudera commented that he shared Ms. Hellman’s concern
but stated no one wants the jail located in his or her community and felt the
county government was struggling with this issue. He encouraged Ms. Hellman and
other concerned citizens to work on presenting solutions to the fiscal court
not just oppositions.
End Privileges of the Floor
8.   Mrs. Gabbard questioned Mayor Kudera regarding two items in the minutes of
an administrative staff meeting that was inserted in the council packets. She
asked about severing contact with ex-Mayor Gabbard and other candidates and
requiring mayoral/council candidates to fill out a public records request form
when asking for public records. On severing contact with the ex-mayor, Mayor
Kudera replied that he wanted assurance the city office was not turned into a
campaign forum for any council/mayoral candidate. He also assured Mrs. Gabbard
that the staff meeting minutes would be adjusted to reflect that all persons
requesting public records must fill out a public records request form.
Executive Session
9.   At 8:00 p.m. Mrs. Henson made a motion to go into an executive session for
the purpose of discussing the appointment of office personnel. Mr. Holten
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
10.   At 8:35 p.m. Mr. Holten made a motion to return to regular session of the
meeting. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
City Clerk Appointment
11.   Mr. Weber made a motion to promote Pat Taney to the non-elected office of
City Clerk of Independence to become effective immediately. Mrs. Weber seconded
the motion. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
Committee Meetings Scheduled
12.   After some discussion, council scheduled the following committee
meetings: Personnel Policy Committee will hold a meeting on September 1, 1998
at 6:00 p.m. at the city building; and the Building Committee will conduct a
meeting on September 1, 1998 at 8:00 p.m. at the city building.
Proposed 1998-99 Budget
13.   Mrs. Henson began by pointing out she found some mathematical errors
while reviewing the budget. She also noted a few line items were changed since
the first reading of the budget at the last meeting. Mr. Wichmann advised that
if the line items were changed a new first reading would need to be read. Mrs.
Henson reviewed the proposed changes with council, noting the corrections.
Aside from the mathematical corrections on Schedule A, the changes included:
line 52-Northern Ky. Area Development $0 to $3,500; line 88-Police Specialist
from $73,000 to $89,000; line 89-Police Officers from $325,000 to $300,000 and,
line 152-Hartland Park playground equipment $13,442 to $19,442. Mrs. Gabbard
asked if these changes still presented a balanced budget. Mrs. Henson replied
yes. Mrs. Henson and Mrs. Weber expressed the importance of renewing the city’s
affiliation with the Northern Kentucky Area Development District as they offer
many services. Mrs. Henson stated they have been very helpful on several
occasions even though the city has not been a member for the last two years.
After further discussion with the city attorney on how to proceed with a second
reading, it was decided to have a second reading on the budget read at the last
meeting and then proceed with a first reading on an ordinance to amend the
budget.
14.   Mr. Holten made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance 1998-O-08
adopting the budget for the 1998-99 fiscal year. Mrs. Henson seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Wichmann read Ordinance No. 1998-O-
08.
15.   Mr. Holten made a motion to adopt Ordinance 1998-O-08 approving the 1998-
99 fiscal year budget. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was answered
with four yes votes and two no votes by Mr. Weber and Mrs. Weber. Motion
carried 4-2.
16.   After Mr. Wichmann drafted a proposed ordinance to amend the 1998-99
budget ordinance to include the latest revisions, Mr. Holten made a motion to
have a first reading of the amended 1998-99 budget ordinance. Mr. Weber
seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Wichmann
read the proposed budget amendment.
17.   A brief discussion ensued wherein Mr. Holten tried to persuade the other
council members to vote in favor of this budget amendment so that it could be
passed as an emergency ordinance (an emergency ordinance requires a unanimous
vote). Mrs. Weber stated she could not in all conscience vote in favor of the
budget, as she does not agree with cutting services the city provides to
residents in order to give 5 percent salary raises to employees. She stated
when she sees an increase in revenues then she could see increasing employee
salaries. She said she has voiced this concern for months and could not give
her approval of this budget.
18.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the first reading of the proposed
ordinance amending the 1998-99 budget. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll
call vote yielded four yes votes and two no votes from Mrs. Weber and Mr.
Weber. Motion carried and the first reading passed. Mr. Wichmann advised a
second reading would be required to pass this ordinance.
Building Inspector, Al Bowling
19.   Mr. Bowling reported to council that the Board of Adjustments had a
hearing regarding a proposed day care/nursery school facility on Thomas Drive
wherein the builder, Carl Johnson, was requesting a conditional use permit to
complete the construction. Originally this new construction was for a single
family residential home. The Board of Adjustments granted the conditional use
permit subject to conditions such as ingress and egress, etc. before final
permits will be issued.
Cardinal Engineering
20.   Mr. Whitacre, City Engineer, informed council that a pump came loose at
the McMillan Drive pump station, it twisted and came out of it’s housing and
broke an impeller and rotor. The pump station is now in need of emergency
repairs and he anticipates that it may take 10-12 weeks to get the parts
needed, as they are special order. Mr. Whitacre gave council several costs
estimates, from a minimum $5,000 to return the pump station to it’s current
position to $120,000 to do a major overhaul of the station. Mr. Whitacre’s
advise as the best option was to upgrade in order to increase the flow
(currently the pump is near capacity) and serve all development in those
drainage areas. He stated this is an emergency because if the remaining pump
goes down the city will have major problems. As is, the pump is operating on
borrowed time. He stated the upgrade will cost $51,800 and will take a few
weeks to get the pump. He also reported the Fowler Creek station needs new
impellers, estimated at $8,000 to keep up with the Marshall Road pump station.
A brief discussion ensued regarding how to fund these emergency expenses;
probably from the sewer maintenance fees collected and the sewer fund’s capital
outlay.
21.   Mr. Whitacre also reported that his office working on cost estimates that
council requested to provide sewers to a few “pocket areas” of the city and a
street repairs/maintenance list.
22.   Mrs. Steffen asked Mr. Whitacre to inspect a water drainage problem on
Clubhouse Drive near house number 1066 (Mrs. Steins). This problem affects
about 5-6 homes. Apparently two pipes are going into a drop box, the pipes are
too small and water is gushing. Mr.Whitacre has looked at this some time ago
but agreed to take another look to see if the pipes are adequate and see what
the city may need to do. He said he would write up a proposal and cost
estimate.
City Administrator
23.   Mr. Scott reported he has the draft for the Senior/Community Center grant
available at the city office for anyone who wishes to look at it. The grant
application is due in Frankfort by August 31, 1998. The city should be
receiving the $20,000 Trail Grant money awarded by the state sometime in
September.
24.   Mrs. Weber asked how the streetlighting plans for the Beechgrove area
were coming along. Mr. Scott replied that Dan Briggs of Cardinal Engineering
was in the process of putting together a plan.
Chief of Police, Ed Porter
25.   Chief Porter reported that Patrol Officer Matt Mullins will graduate on
September 4, 1998 and will proceed into the FPO program. Mrs. Henson asked
Chief Porter to bring new officers, PO Mullins and PO Tonya Jumonville to a
council meeting for introductions. Mrs. Henson also asked the status of having
the old city/police building demolished. Mr. Scott stated the building has been
stripped of all fixtures and the electricity will soon be taken out. Mrs.
Henson asked the building inspector if the building had been officially
condemned and expressed some concern that the Kenton County Fiscal Court could
basically “hold us captive” now in charging rent for the second floor of the
courthouse which the Police Department now occupies. Mr. Bowling replied that
the building had not been officially condemned but he felt it was not wise to
return to it. Chief Porter also reported that a auction had been set for
Saturday, September 12, 1998 to auction off abandoned vehicles and the remains
(file cabinets, desks, air conditioner unit, etc.) of the building. The public
sale will be held on the parking lot of the city/police building and at Kenton
County Motors where the vehicles are stored. Mrs. Henson also asked Chief Porte
to post signs at the old building to direct people to the police department on
the second floor of the courthouse.
City Administrator
26.   Mr. Scott reported to council that he is looking into sewering some
additional “pocket areas” of the city, mainly the southern and central
sections. The areas include Roselawn Dr., Peach Dr., Apple Dr. and Cherry
Drive. He stated these areas were left out of the main sewer project as it was
too expensive, but due to so many complaints coming from this area he feels the
city needs to look at this again. He has asked the city engineer’s office to
start this process while he investigates the possibility of obtaining federal
grant money to fund this project. Mrs. Weber stated she had discussed this
subject with the governor and he too is looking into this federal program. Mrs.
Weber agreed that this needs to be re-addressed with the hopes of providing
this area with sewers.
Adjournment
27.   At 9:30 p.m. Mrs. Henson made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs.
Weber. Motion carried with all ayes.
______________________________________
                  James Kudera, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
September 8, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kudera called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance and the invocation. Council Members Rebecca Weber, Jaimie Henson,
Ken Weber, Anita Steffen, Barbara Gabbard and Scott Holten answered roll call.
Mrs. Steffen was absent due to duties with the U.S. Naval Reserves. Also in
attendance were the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Frank
Wichmann.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
2.   Mr. Weber made a motion to accept the council minutes of August 25, 1998,
as amended. Jaimie Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all
ayes. Motion carried.
Privileges of the Floor
3.   Mrs. Glenna Chapman, a resident on Carrie Way addressed council regarding
raw sewage that is running onto her property along the Independence Christian
Church on Madison Pike and originating from the Hargrove property at 5233
Madison Pike. She stated she and her husband have spoken to representatives
from the E.P.A. and the church and the city building inspector, Al Bowling
regarding the situation. When the church extended their parking lot the
drainage pipes were never connected. Mr. Bowling stated that the building plans
that were submitted to the city showed the pipes were to be connected to the
sewer line. Mrs. Chapman expressed concern that this could become a health
hazard. She feels she is getting the “run around” and asked council to have
something done. Mayor Kudera assured Mrs. Chapman the city was aware of the
situation and is having the city engineers work on a solution to the problem.
4.   A discussion ensued regarding the sewering of several homes in this area.
It is one of the “pocket areas” that the city engineer is presently working on
designs and cost estimates. Mr. Holten asked how quickly construction could
begin once cost estimates are submitted to council. Mr. Wichmann advised
council that if this project was to be an assessment project that it would take
several months and he outlined the procedures of such a project as required by
K.R.S. He figured by the time the public hearing was held, easements, obtained,
etc., that it would be next spring before construction could be started. Mr.
Scott, City Administrator assured Mrs. Chapman that he along with Mayor Kudera
and Dan Briggs of Cardinal Engineering would look at the problem tomorrow.
End Privileges of the Floor
Chief of Police, Ed Porter
5.   Police Chief, Ed Porter, introduced the newest member of the police force,
Matthew Mullins to council. He has been employed by the city for three months
and just graduated from the academy and will enter the FTO program.
Ordinance No. 1998-0-09 (amending 1998-99 Budget)
6.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to have the second reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend Ordinance No. 1998-0-08 (1998/99 Budget). Mr. Holten
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried. Mr.
Wichmann read proposed Ordinance 1998-0-09 amending Ordinance 1998-0-08.
7.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept Ordinance No. 1998-0-09 amending
Ordinance 1998-0-08 as read. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mrs. Weber and Mr. Weber.
Motion carried 4-2.
Annexation Issue – 35 Pelly Road – Wayne Ferguson Property
8.   Mr. Wayne Ferguson, 35 Pelly Road, spoke to council regarding property he
owns on Pelly Road. He stated he owns two contiguous lots on Pelly Road and he
is considering selling the vacant lot but was inquiring about the possibility
of having the city annex it so that it could be tied into city sewer which he
feels will make it more marketable. Mr. Bowling, Building Inspector reported
that both lots back up to the Liberty Orchard subdivision and is six feet from
the main sewer line. Mr. Ferguson asked several questions relating to the
possible annexation, as he wasn’t sure if he wanted to be annexed or not
depending on the conditions that would be imposed by the city. Dan Briggs
explained the debt reduction assessment that all users of the Fowler Creek
Sewer System pay into. Mr. Ferguson stated he is also considering requesting a
zone change for this vacant lot in order to sub-divide into 2-3 lots. Mr.
Wichmann advised zone change and annexation could be done at the same time but
that the zone change would have to have approval from the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning & Zoning Commission. Mayor Kudera suggested the city engineer,
building inspector and city administrator inspect the property with Mr.
Ferguson so some answers could be obtained in order to proceed with the
annexation process, if Mr. Ferguson so chooses.
Deferred Compensation for Kentucky Public Employees
9.   Mr. Donald Mossman, representative for the Kentucky Deferred Compensation
program made a presentation to council outlining the benefits for the city
employees. He stated the city was under no obligation to match employee
contributions by offering this program and that all administration fees would
be deducted from the individual employee accounts. He stated that all
contributions go in tax-free and grow tax-free. It would be taxed as ordinary
income when it is withdrawn. There are two plans available and is vested the
first day. Mr. Scott advised council the only expense for he the city would be
a nominal fee charged by the city’s payroll service company (Paycor). Also this
program has no affect on Social Security or C.E.R.S. (retirement program). Mr.
Mossman asked for the city approval by passing a Resolution adopting this
program.
Resolution 1998-R-06
10.   Mr. Holten made a motion to read the resolution in support of offering
city employees enrollment in the state deferred compensation program. Motion
seconded by Mr. Weber. No roll call. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Wichmann
read the resolution.
11.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept Resolution No. 1998-R-06 approving the
deferred compensation program for city employees. Mr. Weber seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
Cardinal Engineering
12.   Mr. Briggs advised council that the current ordinance that regulates the
type of streetlights the city will permit to be installed on city maintained
streets preclude the use of high-pressure sodium lights. During recent
discussions with Owen Electric regarding the installation of new streetlights
on Beechgrove Drive, he was informed this utility company only uses high-
pressure sodium lights. Mr. Briggs stated they use this type of light, as it is
more economical to service and operate. He stated the city’s only other option
would be to purchase, install and maintain their own light system in Owen
County’s service region. He asked council to look into amending the present
ordinance (1997-0-22) to allow the high-pressure sodium lights when no other
type is available. Mr. Wichmann stated he would prepare an ordinance amendment
for council to review at the next meeting.
13.   Mr. Briggs informed council that the development section of the
Independence Towne Center known as Lakeside of Independence is possibly being
converted from townhomes for sale to rental units. This may change the status
of the streets from private to public wherein the developer would be asking the
city to accept for maintenance. If the streets were dedicated as public streets
they would have to be upgraded to public street standards. Mrs. Weber suggested
adopting an ordinance that would address the need to make all private roads
built to public use standards. Mr. Wichmann advised that the existing zoning
ordinance has included compliance regulations which are standard provisions in
all zoning ordinances. Mrs. Weber would like to see this reviewed before more
of this type of building changes occur. Mr. Briggs said he would also like to
see an ordinance that would protect the city from sub-standard building. Again,
Mr. Wichmann stated he felt the city has some existing protection now, as most
zoning ordinances state that the conditions must be brought up to standard in
order for the city to take over maintenance. He also advised council the city
has the authority to repair a deteriorated street with multiple owners then
assess the residents of that street for the expense. Mayor Kudera stated they
would review the ordinances the city currently have in place and then see what,
if any, ordinances need amendments or drafting.
14.   Mr. Briggs updated council on the status of the McMillan Drive pump
station, which is undergoing emergency repairs. The pumps have arrived and are
awaiting installation. He reported the labor to rebuild the station will be
approximately $45,000.00. The station will be shut down and a by-pass installed
while the new pump station is being erected. Mayor Kudera advised council that
he has instructed that the dismantling of the pump station be documented to see
if it was originally constructed per specifications. If it was not, the city
will investigate the possibility of recovering some of the expenses of
rebuilding a new station.
Police Department
15.   Ed Porter, Chief of Police, reminded council of the police auction to be
held on Saturday, September 12, 1998 at 10:00 a.m. The auction will begin at
Kenton County motors where approximately 50 vehicles will be auctioned then
move to the old city/police building to dispose of the contents of the
building. Preview of items to be auctioned will begin at 8:00 a.m. Saturday
morning.
16.   Chief Porter also reported a Child/Special Persons I.D. Program would be
held on September 22, 1998 at the Wildwood Place Apartments at 3910 Wynnbrook
Drive between the hours of 6:00 and 8:00 p.m. It is being expanded to include
special persons to see the kind of response it gets.
City Administrator
17.   Mr. Scott reported that he is currently setting up two interviews with
candidates for the part-time Zoning Administrator position. He hopes to have
the position filled by October 1, 1998 and would like to take a pro-active
approach to enforcing the zoning laws.
18.   Mr. Scott also reported he has met with representatives from the
businesses on Production Drive regarding storm drainage problems. Mr. Scott
will have the city engineering firm look into the water run-off problems. He
stated there might be a need for a retention basin. He will begin to look into
the drainage problems on the west side of the city. Mrs. Weber asked if this
was a recently developed problem. Mr. Briggs replied it has been over three
years; since the large expansion on Holten Drive.
Production Dr./Holten Dr. Study
19.   Mrs. Weber made a motion to authorize Cardinal Engineering to do a study
on the storm drainage problems in the Production Drive & Holten Drive in the
Industrial Park area and report back to council. Mrs. Henson seconded the
motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
City Attorney Report
20.   Mr. Wichmann reported that he is spending time on several litigation
matters for the city. A motion to dismiss has been filed in the lawsuit wherein
several Northern Kentucky cities have been named regarding the flooding of the
Banklick Creek area. The hearing is in approximately two weeks. He stated most
cities do not have any torte insurance to cover this kind of liability. He
advised that Captain Bill Howard’s termination has been appealed. Also, Mr.
Gene Daniel’s suit against the city for denying a zone change has a hearing
scheduled for September 28, 1998. He is also working on a few smaller lawsuits.
Mayor’s Report
21.   Mayor Kudera advised a new police officer has been hired and will begin
on September 21, 1998. He is already certified and will go directly into the
FTO program. Also, in the Clerk’s Office, Kathy Stenger will move up to the
Assistant Clerk position and that Cheryl Vornberger will move into the Deputy
Clerk position.
22.   Mayor Kudera reported that the city’s October edition of the newsletter
would provide one-half page of space to all candidates running in the general
election for position of mayor or council member.  He stated that all
candidates have been asked to submit a profile. He has had positive reactions
to this gesture.
Second Annual Christmas Walk
23.   Mrs. Henson announced the Second Annual Christmas Walk has been scheduled
for December 9, 1998. Anyone wishing to help with the plans or make inquiries
can call herself or Donna Yeager.
Adjournment
Mr. Holten made a motion to adjourn at 9:03 p.m.; seconded by Mr. Weber. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned.
______________________________________
                  James Kudera, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
September 22, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kudera called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance and the invocation. Council Members Rebecca Weber, Jaimie Henson,
Ken Weber, Anita Steffen, Barbara Gabbard and Scott Holten answered roll call.
Mrs. Steffen was absent due to duties with the U.S. Naval Reserves. Also in
attendance were the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Frank
Wichmann.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
2.   Mr. Weber made a motion to accept the council minutes of August 25, 1998,
as amended. Jaimie Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all
ayes. Motion carried.
Privileges of the Floor
3.   Mrs. Glenna Chapman, a resident on Carrie Way addressed council regarding
raw sewage that is running onto her property along the Independence Christian
Church on Madison Pike and originating from the Hargrove property at 5233
Madison Pike. She stated she and her husband have spoken to representatives
from the E.P.A. and the church and the city building inspector, Al Bowling
regarding the situation. When the church extended their parking lot the
drainage pipes were never connected. Mr. Bowling stated that the building plans
that were submitted to the city showed the pipes were to be connected to the
sewer line. Mrs. Chapman expressed concern that this could become a health
hazard. She feels she is getting the “run around” and asked council to have
something done. Mayor Kudera assured Mrs. Chapman the city was aware of the
situation and is having the city engineers work on a solution to the problem.
4.   A discussion ensued regarding the sewering of several homes in this area.
It is one of the “pocket areas” that the city engineer is presently working on
designs and cost estimates. Mr. Holten asked how quickly construction could
begin once cost estimates are submitted to council. Mr. Wichmann advised
council that if this project was to be an assessment project that it would take
several months and he outlined the procedures of such a project as required by
K.R.S. He figured by the time the public hearing was held, easements, obtained,
etc., that it would be next spring before construction could be started. Mr.
Scott, City Administrator assured Mrs. Chapman that he along with Mayor Kudera
and Dan Briggs of Cardinal Engineering would look at the problem tomorrow.
End Privileges of the Floor
Chief of Police, Ed Porter
5.   Police Chief, Ed Porter, introduced the newest member of the police force,
Matthew Mullins to council. He has been employed by the city for three months
and just graduated from the academy and will enter the FTO program.
Ordinance No. 1998-0-09 (amending 1998-99 Budget)
6.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to have the second reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend Ordinance No. 1998-0-08 (1998/99 Budget). Mr. Holten
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried. Mr.
Wichmann read proposed Ordinance 1998-0-09 amending Ordinance 1998-0-08.
7.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept Ordinance No. 1998-0-09 amending
Ordinance 1998-0-08 as read. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mrs. Weber and Mr. Weber.
Motion carried 4-2.
Annexation Issue – 35 Pelly Road – Wayne Ferguson Property
8.   Mr. Wayne Ferguson, 35 Pelly Road, spoke to council regarding property he
owns on Pelly Road. He stated he owns two contiguous lots on Pelly Road and he
is considering selling the vacant lot but was inquiring about the possibility
of having the city annex it so that it could be tied into city sewer which he
feels will make it more marketable. Mr. Bowling, Building Inspector reported
that both lots back up to the Liberty Orchard subdivision and is six feet from
the main sewer line. Mr. Ferguson asked several questions relating to the
possible annexation, as he wasn’t sure if he wanted to be annexed or not
depending on the conditions that would be imposed by the city. Dan Briggs
explained the debt reduction assessment that all users of the Fowler Creek
Sewer System pay into. Mr. Ferguson stated he is also considering requesting a
zone change for this vacant lot in order to sub-divide into 2-3 lots. Mr.
Wichmann advised zone change and annexation could be done at the same time but
that the zone change would have to have approval from the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning & Zoning Commission. Mayor Kudera suggested the city engineer,
building inspector and city administrator inspect the property with Mr.
Ferguson so some answers could be obtained in order to proceed with the
annexation process, if Mr. Ferguson so chooses.
Deferred Compensation for Kentucky Public Employees
9.   Mr. Donald Mossman, representative for the Kentucky Deferred Compensation
program made a presentation to council outlining the benefits for the city
employees. He stated the city was under no obligation to match employee
contributions by offering this program and that all administration fees would
be deducted from the individual employee accounts. He stated that all
contributions go in tax-free and grow tax-free. It would be taxed as ordinary
income when it is withdrawn. There are two plans available and is vested the
first day. Mr. Scott advised council the only expense for he the city would be
a nominal fee charged by the city’s payroll service company (Paycor). Also this
program has no affect on Social Security or C.E.R.S. (retirement program). Mr.
Mossman asked for the city approval by passing a Resolution adopting this
program.
Resolution 1998-R-06
10.   Mr. Holten made a motion to read the resolution in support of offering
city employees enrollment in the state deferred compensation program. Motion
seconded by Mr. Weber. No roll call. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Wichmann
read the resolution.
11.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept Resolution No. 1998-R-06 approving the
deferred compensation program for city employees. Mr. Weber seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
Cardinal Engineering
12.   Mr. Briggs advised council that the current ordinance that regulates the
type of streetlights the city will permit to be installed on city maintained
streets preclude the use of high-pressure sodium lights. During recent
discussions with Owen Electric regarding the installation of new streetlights
on Beechgrove Drive, he was informed this utility company only uses high-
pressure sodium lights. Mr. Briggs stated they use this type of light, as it is
more economical to service and operate. He stated the city’s only other option
would be to purchase, install and maintain their own light system in Owen
County’s service region. He asked council to look into amending the present
ordinance (1997-0-22) to allow the high-pressure sodium lights when no other
type is available. Mr. Wichmann stated he would prepare an ordinance amendment
for council to review at the next meeting.
13.   Mr. Briggs informed council that the development section of the
Independence Towne Center known as Lakeside of Independence is possibly being
converted from townhomes for sale to rental units. This may change the status
of the streets from private to public wherein the developer would be asking the
city to accept for maintenance. If the streets were dedicated as public streets
they would have to be upgraded to public street standards. Mrs. Weber suggested
adopting an ordinance that would address the need to make all private roads
built to public use standards. Mr. Wichmann advised that the existing zoning
ordinance has included compliance regulations which are standard provisions in
all zoning ordinances. Mrs. Weber would like to see this reviewed before more
of this type of building changes occur. Mr. Briggs said he would also like to
see an ordinance that would protect the city from sub-standard building. Again,
Mr. Wichmann stated he felt the city has some existing protection now, as most
zoning ordinances state that the conditions must be brought up to standard in
order for the city to take over maintenance. He also advised council the city
has the authority to repair a deteriorated street with multiple owners then
assess the residents of that street for the expense. Mayor Kudera stated they
would review the ordinances the city currently have in place and then see what,
if any, ordinances need amendments or drafting.
14.   Mr. Briggs updated council on the status of the McMillan Drive pump
station, which is undergoing emergency repairs. The pumps have arrived and are
awaiting installation. He reported the labor to rebuild the station will be
approximately $45,000.00. The station will be shut down and a by-pass installed
while the new pump station is being erected. Mayor Kudera advised council that
he has instructed that the dismantling of the pump station be documented to see
if it was originally constructed per specifications. If it was not, the city
will investigate the possibility of recovering some of the expenses of
rebuilding a new station.
Police Department
15.   Ed Porter, Chief of Police, reminded council of the police auction to be
held on Saturday, September 12, 1998 at 10:00 a.m. The auction will begin at
Kenton County motors where approximately 50 vehicles will be auctioned then
move to the old city/police building to dispose of the contents of the
building. Preview of items to be auctioned will begin at 8:00 a.m. Saturday
morning.
16.   Chief Porter also reported a Child/Special Persons I.D. Program would be
held on September 22, 1998 at the Wildwood Place Apartments at 3910 Wynnbrook
Drive between the hours of 6:00 and 8:00 p.m. It is being expanded to include
special persons to see the kind of response it gets.
City Administrator
17.   Mr. Scott reported that he is currently setting up two interviews with
candidates for the part-time Zoning Administrator position. He hopes to have
the position filled by October 1, 1998 and would like to take a pro-active
approach to enforcing the zoning laws.
18.   Mr. Scott also reported he has met with representatives from the
businesses on Production Drive regarding storm drainage problems. Mr. Scott
will have the city engineering firm look into the water run-off problems. He
stated there might be a need for a retention basin. He will begin to look into
the drainage problems on the west side of the city. Mrs. Weber asked if this
was a recently developed problem. Mr. Briggs replied it has been over three
years; since the large expansion on Holten Drive.
Production Dr./Holten Dr. Study
19.   Mrs. Weber made a motion to authorize Cardinal Engineering to do a study
on the storm drainage problems in the Production Drive & Holten Drive in the
Industrial Park area and report back to council. Mrs. Henson seconded the
motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
City Attorney Report
20.   Mr. Wichmann reported that he is spending time on several litigation
matters for the city. A motion to dismiss has been filed in the lawsuit wherein
several Northern Kentucky cities have been named regarding the flooding of the
Banklick Creek area. The hearing is in approximately two weeks. He stated most
cities do not have any torte insurance to cover this kind of liability. He
advised that Captain Bill Howard’s termination has been appealed. Also, Mr.
Gene Daniel’s suit against the city for denying a zone change has a hearing
scheduled for September 28, 1998. He is also working on a few smaller lawsuits.
Mayor’s Report
21.   Mayor Kudera advised a new police officer has been hired and will begin
on September 21, 1998. He is already certified and will go directly into the
FTO program. Also, in the Clerk’s Office, Kathy Stenger will move up to the
Assistant Clerk position and that Cheryl Vornberger will move into the Deputy
Clerk position.
22.   Mayor Kudera reported that the city’s October edition of the newsletter
would provide one-half page of space to all candidates running in the general
election for position of mayor or council member.  He stated that all
candidates have been asked to submit a profile. He has had positive reactions
to this gesture.
Second Annual Christmas Walk
23.   Mrs. Henson announced the Second Annual Christmas Walk has been scheduled
for December 9, 1998. Anyone wishing to help with the plans or make inquiries
can call herself or Donna Yeager.
Adjournment
Mr. Holten made a motion to adjourn at 9:03 p.m.; seconded by Mr. Weber. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned.
______________________________________
                  James Kudera, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
September 22, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kudera called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance and the invocation. Council Members Rebecca Weber, Jaimie Henson,
Ken Weber, Barbara Gabbard and Scott Holten answered roll call. Mrs. Steffen
was absent due to duties with the U.S. Naval Reserves. Also in attendance were
the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Frank Wichmann.
2.   Police Chief Porter introduced one of the new police officers: Patrol
Officer Tonya Jumonville. P.O. Jumonville came to Independence from the Park
Hills Police Department. Chief Porter reported that her hire date was effective
June 25, 1998 and that she has completed the FTO Program and is actively
patrolling the streets.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
3.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to accept the council minutes of September 8,
1998, as amended. Mr. Holten seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
Privileges of the Floor
4.   Mayor Kudera cautioned the audience that the privilege of the floor was
not to be used to make political statements and he would interrupt anyone who
abused this time to address council.
5.   Mrs. Kathi Hargrove, a resident of 5233 Madison Pike, addressed council
regarding her sewage drainage problem at that address. Mrs. Hargrove stated she
and her husband bought the house in 1996 unaware that it was not tied into city
sewers. In 1997 she discovered she has no sewage system as she found that raw
sewage was running on the property and the neighboring Independence Christian
Church property as well. She told council that this problem existed for many
years before she purchased the property and she has been trying to get some
help with correcting this but has not been able to get a straight answer from
anyone. Since July of 1997, she has been seeking assistance from the former
city mayor, the city building inspector, Al Bowling, the E.P.A. and the Board
of Health. In 1997 the Board of Health recommended using a gravity flow pump as
they would not allow a septic system as the property is not large enough to
support one.
6.   On behalf of the city, Mayor Kudera apologized for any injustice she has
experienced and also the delay in getting some answers to repair the sewer
drainage problem in her area. The mayor turned the floor over to Dave Whitacre,
the city engineer, who presented some options to correct the matter.
7.   Mr. Whitacre presented some options (with cost estimates) which include:
1)   Install a septic tank and leach field         $ 8,000 - $12,000
2)   A city sewer tie-in involving 4-5 neighboring properties – easements would
need to be obtained which may be a problem                  $45,400
3)   Grinder pumps which require maintenance and have a 5-10 year life
span                  $31,500
4)   Install a city sewer tie-in 22 feet deep under the funeral home parking
lot with all neighboring properties being able to gravity in         $39,250
8.   Mr. Whitacre stated that only four houses would reap any benefit from this
sewer project as the other homes in this area already have sewers. Mayor Kudera
commented that he didn’t think council would be able to reach a decision
tonight as each option would have to be examined further and suggested forming
a sub-committee to come up with a solution. Mr. Weber suggested the sewer
committee hold a special meeting to address and review the options and bring a
recommendation back to council. Mr. Whitacre advised that it would take several
months if the city decides to take on this project before anyone could tap in.
Mr. Weber commented that he hoped the residents would be willing to wait if the
city could assure them it is being worked on. He stated he would rather see a
permanent solution to this problem instead of a temporary fix.
9.   Mr. Holten asked if the homes that are already connected to city sewers by
private laterals were legal and if they were paying maintenance fees and debt
reduction fees. Mr. Wichmann stated they would be considered legal if easements
had been obtained. Mr. Scott stated he believes those tapped into sewers in
that area are currently paying maintenance and debt reduction fees. Mrs. Glenna
Chapman of 10 Carrie Way stated that her father-in-law installed and owned the
private sewer system that many of the surrounding homes on Madison Pike and
Carrie Way tapping into and those homes did not pay a tap-in fee. In 1980-81
ownership of the sewer plant was turned over to the city along with $10,000.
10.   Mayor Kudera suggested setting a committee meeting to start the process
of solving this situation. Mr. Holten suggested scheduling a meeting of the
Sewer Committee for September 30, 1998 at 8:00 p.m. at the city administration
building. Mr. Holten stated that while individual costs can not be determined
yet, it could run between $6,300 and $15,000 per property to sewer this “pocket
area.”
11.   Mr. Holten asked the city engineer if preliminary reports had been
compiled for the sewering of the other “pocket areas” as discussed at the
previous council meeting. Mr. Whitacre stated they were still working on the
cost figures. Mrs. Henson suggested the sewer committee discuss those areas,
too.
Personnel Policy Update
12.   Mrs. Henson reported that the Personnel Committee has forwarded a copy of
the updated policy for legal review. Mr. Scott also reported that a pay plan
has been completed and will be submitted for approval at the same time as the
personnel policy.
Cellular Towers Regulations
13.   Mrs. Henson stated the letter from Northern Kentucky Area Planning &
Zoning dated September 8, 1998 pertaining to the meeting to be held on October
1, 1998 is regarding the construction of cellular towers. She stated that the
state has not finalized the regulations regarding these towers so the NKAPZ is
putting together temporary regulations.
Clubhouse Dr./Wedgewood Dr. Drainage Study
14.   Mr. Whitacre reported the McMillan Drive pump station re-construction
should begin by next week. He also stated proposals are being prepared for work
on Clubhouse/Wedgewood Drives and storm water runoff on Production Drive. He
said the detention basins for the storm water runoff of Production Drive are
not holding water and he will need to research this to see why. It may take up
to 80 hours to complete this proposal. The total to complete these reports on
Production Drive and Clubhouse/Wedgewood Drives is $5,000. He informed council
that a developer built an improvement on an existing sewer line on Reliance
Court. He will need to get proper documentation and new easements in order to
be dedicated properly. Mrs. Weber suggested the city administrator contact the
businesses on Production Drive to offer engineering services in order to get
this problem solved.
15.   Mrs. Weber made a motion to allocate $1,000 to Cardinal Engineering to
work up a proposal to solve the storm water drainage problem at Clubhouse &
Wedgewood Drives. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion.
16.   A discussion ensued as Mr. Holten stated his objection to allocating
funds to study storm water drainage problems in one area of the city and not
others. He stated the city might become inundated with requests for storm water
studies. Mr. Scott commented that he was including a drainage survey in the
October edition of the city newsletter. The survey has been used elsewhere and
should generate a lot of responses. When completed surveys are returned to the
city office he will meet with the city engineer to develop a plan to address
the problem areas. Mr. Scott recommended going ahead with the Clubhouse/
Wedgewood Drives study and then address the other areas at a later date. Mrs.
Weber stated council has been hearing about these drainage problems for years
and they are not going away. She commented that council needs to start
somewhere and the survey sounds like a good idea. Mr. Scott stated the survey
would give the city an inventory of problem areas. Mr. Holten expressed
reservations that the city may be appearing to shoulder the liability for
correcting these problems. Mr. Whitacre stated he would address the problems
private versus city, which would be public assessment projects, where there are
current easements and where there are no easements. Mr. Weber suggested some of
the engineer costs could be recouped if an assessment project is done. Mr.
Holten would like to see council set guidelines as to how involved the city
will become in these projects.
17.   Mrs. Weber amended her motion to allocate $1,000 to Cardinal Engineering
to work up a proposal to solve the storm water drainage problem at Clubhouse/
Wedgewood Drives and in the meantime the city administrator and the city
attorney will work on setting guidelines on how to allocate resources to
address these problems; any implementation to solve the problems and passage of
an ordinance to this effect. Motion seconded by Mrs. Henson. Roll call was
answered by all ayes. Motion carried.
Cardinal Engineering
18.   In other matters, Mr. Whitacre reported the restoration in the Plantation
Heights area was going to exceed $10,000. Also, street repairs will only
include pothole patching; no contract has been let for reconstruction projects.
Mr. Scott stated they would plan for reconstruction projects in the Spring of
1999, thus beginning a new bid process cycle for summer street repairs.
Chief of Police, Ed Porter
19.   Chief of Police, Ed Porter, notified council that the Simon Kenton High
School Homecoming Parade would take place on Friday, September 25, 1998. It
would begin at Sterling Staggs Park and continue south on Madison Pike to the
high school. It is expected that traffic flow would be interrupted for
approximately 1-1-½ hours.
20.   Mrs. Weber asked how the auction went. The chief commented that it went
well with a profit of $4,300. Mrs. Weber also stated she has received
complaints regarding vandalism in the Hunters Green Subdivision area and asked
how a neighborhood goes about setting up a Block Watch program. Chief Porter
said that Sgt. Ed Bailey administers the Block Watch program and only needs to
be contacted by a representative(s) of the neighborhood.
City Administrator, Gary Scott
21.   Mr. Scott reported that a neighboring city is interested in sharing a
full-time Zoning Administrator and he is currently working on a resolution. The
best candidate for the position would like full time employment and this may
work out for both cities. Mr. Weber asked if this would keep the city within
the budget and Mr. Scott assured him it would, as this will be a contract
position versus a city employee. Mr. Scott also reported that he is looking
into applying for an ISTEA grant (for sidewalks) which has a December deadline.
Scheduling of Committee Meetings
22.   Mr. Scott reported the personnel policy has been sent to the city
attorney for legal review. He suggested setting two committee meetings –
personnel policy and building committee. Council agreed to schedule a Personnel
Policy Committee meeting for Tuesday, September 29, 1998 at 6:00 p.m. and the
Building Committee for the same day at 7:30 p.m. Both meetings will be held in
the city administrative building.
Street Light Ordinance Amendment
23.   Mrs. Weber made a motion to have a first reading on the ordinance
amending the streetlight Ordinance No. 1997-0-22. Mrs. Henson seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Wichmann read the proposed ordinance.
24.   Mrs. Weber made a motion to accept the first reading on the ordinance-
amending Ordinance No. 1997-0-22. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll call
was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
Ending Comments & Questions
25.   Mr. Holten asked the city administrator if the financing for the Fowler
Creek sewer project has been bonded yet. Mr. Scott reported that he is having
some exploratory talks, but hoped to have more concrete information to council
soon. Mayor Kudera commented that the talks are in the research process at this
time and they are not prepared to report on it now.
Adjournment
26.   Mr. Weber made a motion to adjourn at 8:40 p.m.; seconded by Mrs. Henson.
Motion carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned.
______________________________________
                  James Kudera, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
October 13, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kudera called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance The invocation was given by Reverend Randy McCafferty of the
Independence Christian Church.
2.   Before roll call was taken, Council Member Scott Holten presented former
Mayor Marion Schadler with the plaque that had been affixed to the old city
building at 5290 Madison Pike when it was dedicated in 1979. Mr. Holten thanked
Mr. Schadler for his many years of dedicated service to the city. Mr. Schadler
accepted the plaque and commented that up until 1979 city records were kept in
a private home until the property on Madison Pike was acquired and converted
into city offices. Mayor Kudera stated it was an honor to grant Mr. Schadler
the dedication plaque in appreciation for his public service to the city.
3.   Council Members Ken Weber, Anita Steffen, Rebecca Weber, Scott Holten,
Barbara Gabbard and Jaimie Henson answered roll call. Also in attendance were
the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Frank Wichmann.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
4.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the council minutes of September 22,
1998, as amended. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with
all ayes.
Halloween Trick-or-Treat Hours
5.   Mrs. Gabbard asked if council was going to set Halloween trick-or-treating
hours as she has been getting some phone calls regarding this. Mayor Kudera and
Mr. Scott stated that the time for trick-or-treating this year would be between
the hours of 6:00 and 8:00 p.m. on Saturday, October 31, 1998. There was a
brief discussion about the setting of Halloween hours every year. Some council
members felt the hours should be conjunctive with other cities.
6.   Mr. Holten made a motion to direct the city attorney to prepare an
ordinance setting the annual Halloween hours in conjunctive to other cities.
Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
Introduction of New Finance Director
7.   Mr. Scott introduced Mrs. Amy K. Guenther as the city’s new Finance
Director. She comes to the city from Von Lehman & Company CPA firm. He stated
Mrs. Guenther is a Certified Public Accountant and will be an asset to the city
in this new position. Council members welcomed Mrs. Guenther. Mrs. Guenther
informed council of her credentials and advised them she is setting the city’s
finances up on the computer which will provide more accurate and timely
financial reports.
Audit Report for 1997/98 Fiscal Year
8.   Linda Chapman from Rankin, Rankin & Company CPA firm made a presentation
to council on the audit of the 1997/98 fiscal year financial statements.
Council members asked Ms. Chapman some general questions regarding the audit.
Mrs. Chapman pointed out a few recommendations for areas that need improvement.
One being to get the city finances computerized which the city is in the
process of doing with the hiring of Mrs. Guenther, the new Finance Director.
She stated this would provide a more accurate set of numbers on the monthly
financial statements and give a more realistic view of where the city stands
financially. She also noted the city needs to keep better records of assets.
Mrs. Chapman also commented the city is getting the best certificate of deposit
interest rates she has seen.
Discussion of Bonding of the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt
9.   Mr. Joe Nance, an investment banker with Ross, Sinclaire & Associates,
Inc. appeared before council to provide an update on where the city stands
regarding the re-financing of the Fowler Creek Sewer Project debt from a short-
term loan into a long-term loan. He informed council that a payment was due in
December, which amounted to $343,794.00 ($175,000 principal and $168,794
interest). The current anticipation note has a $5.8 million balloon payment due
the year 2003 for the entire debt. He stated the anticipation note was
originally meant to be a short-term loan until the construction of the sewer
project was completed. He also emphasized that since current interest rates are
very attractive – at a record low – it would be a wise time for the city to
bond this debt. He explained that in order to calculate the total dollars
needed to bond this debt several considerations were taken into account. They
include the current sewer debt reduction and maintenance fees being collected,
and the projection over the next 4-5 years of current, planned and speculated
residential developments and fund balances available. Mr. Nance assured council
that the numbers being presented are good projection figures. He stated there
would be fees involved to finance a bond (fiscal agent fee, bond counsel fee,
bank fee, bond rating fee, etc.) and the bonds would be bid out which his
company would handle. The grand total of bonds to bid out is $6,060,000.00.
Mrs. Henson asked if bonding this debt would extend the time of the term of the
loan. He replied that it would but that the city would be locking in a historic
lower interest rate. Currently the average rate is 4.39% for 25 years (and
4.59% when you factor in the other fees involved) making a $402,000 per year
payment which will be considerably lower from the amount the city is now
paying. He commented that if the city delayed this matter for a year or so the
interest rates may go up – with odds that the rate could go down a bit more –
but eventually the rates will start to climb again. Mr. Nance also pointed out
that assuming the city continues to grow every year council could review this
and lower the quarterly assessment fee charged to the users or leave as is to
build up a cash reserve to pay off the bond. He advised that by bonding the
debt now they would not be tying the hands of future seated councils to lower
the fees. Mr. Nance stated these bonds could be paid off after 12 years with no
penalty for early payoff.
10.   A lengthy discussion ensued regarding the pros and cons of bonding this
debt. Mr. Holten expressed concern that the debt reduction fees would be set up
into another fund and not used to retire the debt. Mr. Nance stated it would be
set up, to be adopted by ordinance, to include convenants wherein restricted
funds could not be used for other purposes. Mayor Kudera summarized by stated
this was a good time to bond this debt with the low interest rate locked in for
twenty-five years and asked for a motion to authorize Ross, Sinclaire and
Associates, Inc. to proceed with the bonding of this debt. Mrs. Gabbard
interjected by suggesting council hold a few public meetings to get citizen
input since they are the ones to pay for it. Mayor Kudera explained that by
procrastinating the city is taking the risk of the interest rate rising. Mrs.
Henson stated she feels the council members have been entrusted by the citizens
to make these decisions. Mrs. Weber commented this is the best news she has
heard in the five years since this sewer project began when she wasn’t sure if
the city could pay for it and liked the option that future councils would be
able to lower the debt reduction fee if feasible. Mrs. Gabbard commented she
was given the prepared ordinance at this meeting with no opportunity to review
it. Again, she expressed the desire to have open meetings for the citizens to
comment. Mr. Holten stated that we live in a representative government and
every matter cannot be delayed in order to hold public meetings before deciding
important matters.
11.   Mrs. Weber made a motion to authorize Ross, Sinclaire & Associates to
proceed with the bonding procedures as presented and prepare an ordinance
pertaining thereto. Mr. Holten seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered
with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1.
Extending Sewer Lines to “Pocket Areas”
12.   Mr. Gary Scott reported the Sewer Committee met as scheduled and
discussed the three options outlined by Cardinal Engineering to sewer several
homes in the Madison Pike/Carrie Way area. The preliminary selection chosen by
the committee was option #2 as it would best serve this area. It would involve
installing a sewer line 22 feet down for a gravity flow system across Carrie
Way. The estimated cost for this option is $39,900. Mr. Scott asked for
council’s approval to have the city engineer’s office complete a comprehensive
study to proceed with the process. Mr. Holten commented the city would finance
the project and assess five property owners as all five will benefit. Mrs.
Chapman, a resident on Carrie Way asked council what would be done with the
manhole on her property. Mayor Kudera responded that the manhole was a separate
issue that would have to be addressed at another time. Mr. Briggs commented the
manhole and the existing ground is not stable enough to support a sewer line
without extensive excavation. Mayor Kudera stated the area is not compacted and
Option #2 is the least intrusive and least expensive and the city will proceed
with it. Mrs. Gabbard asked if the funeral home has given their permission to
cross through their lot. Mr. Holten replied that he spoke with Mr. Ed Currin
and although he has not signed easements yet he most likely will be agreeable.
13.   Mr. Holten made a motion to authorize the city engineers to prepare a
comprehensive report as required by Kentucky statute for a sewer assessment
project for the five homes in the Madison Pike/Carrie Way area, which is listed
as Option #4 in the September 22, 1998 council meeting minutes; and request the
city attorney to obtain the necessary easements by the Spring of 1999. Mrs.
Henson seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes (6-0).
Motion carried.
14.   Mayor Kudera stated an attempt would be made to get this process underway
by the first regularly scheduled meeting in November (11-10-98) or possibly
scheduling a special meeting.
Sanitation District – Discussion of Transfer of Sewer Lines
15.   Mayor Kudera stated that Mr. Jeff Eger and other representatives from the
Sanitation District were in attendance to discuss the possible agreement of a
merger of the city’s sanitary sewer lines. Council members voiced their
concerns and asked several questions about the proposed agreement. Mrs. Henson
wanted to know if the city could continue to extend lines to residents. Mr.
Eger stated the city could build at city expense and assess the resident users
for the projects, that there is no language in the proposed agreement that
would exclude this. He stated that in the past five years the District has not
turned down any extensions. The District would have no objection to any project
funded 100% by the city. Mr. Eger explained that the District has to go through
the same procedures that any city would to build new lines in communities.
There was discussion regarding the $203,220 repairs needed in the city
recommended in the 1992 GRW study. Mrs. Henson questioned why the city would
have to reimburse the District 100% of this cost when the statutes state 50%.
Mr. Eger replied the 50% reimbursement amount was extended to those cities that
opted into the District before the deadline. And Mr. Eger stated the District
would honor that study, which does not reflect repairs made to date. Mr. Eger
also discussed with council the process by which interested residents can
petition for sewer lines in their neighborhood. Once again, Mr. Eger stated the
process is the same the city would have to use as this is mandated by K.R.S.
Mrs. Gabbard asked what advantage there would be for the city to transfer the
sewer lines to the District as she feels the city would be giving up control.
Mr. Eger stated the city would no longer have the expense of maintaining the
sewer lines, which can be costly. Discussion also centered on the rates and how
the money could be used. Mayor Kudera reminded council the city recently
incurred approximately $100,000 in repairs on two pump stations (Fowler Creek
and McMillan Drive) and it is unknown what the Beechgrove area may cost the
city in the future. He stated the city does not have the resources and manpower
the District has. Mr. Eger stated the Sanitation District would increase their
tap-in (“capacity connection fee”) fee to $1800 effective August 1999.
16.   Another discussion ensued on the storm water management issue. The Phase
II Clean Water Act will require a report be submitted by the year 2001 on storm
water management. The state is currently developing a storm water management
plan. Mr. Weber asked Mr. Eger what cost would be incurred and how to assess
that cost. Mr. Eger replied it was too premature to discuss this issue but it
should be a nominal fee in relation to the service provided. He also stated
that the three county judge-executives would have to approve the plan.
17.   Mr. Eger restated that by merging with the Sanitation District the big
savings for the city would be the cost of maintaining the sewer lines. Mr.
Holten agreed the city is not prepared to take on the responsibility and needs
to pursue the merger issue. Mrs. Gabbard agreed for the need to revisit the
merger issue but does not see the need to do it now. Mayor Kudera stated the
option was available through December 31, 1998 and council would be holding
short meetings, one in November and one in December. Mrs. Henson commented she
felt it was irresponsible to dump this decision on the next seated council and
is prepared to take some action. Mrs. Weber remarked that the proposed
agreement is very different from the one proposed a few years ago. A few years
ago she was concerned the sewer project would not be completed if merged with
the District. Also the matter of the storm water management is something the
city will not be able to handle. She feels this agreement is a better plan.
First Reading of Proposed Ordinance to Transfer Sewer Lines to Sanitation
District No.1
18.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to transfer the city’s sanitary sewer system to the Sanitation
District No. 1, to be read in summary. Mrs. Weber seconded the motion. No roll
call; five ayes and one nay voiced. Motion carried. Mr. Wichmann read the
proposed ordinance.
19.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to accept the first reading of the proposed
ordinance to transfer the sanitary sewer lines to the Sanitation District,
seconded by Mr. Weber. Roll call was answered with four yes votes, one abstain
vote by Mrs. Steffen and one no vote cast by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried 4-1-
1.
Recess for Break in the Meeting
20.   At 9:42 p.m. Mr. Holten made a motion to take a short recess; seconded by
Mr. Weber. Motion carried with all ayes.
21.   At 9:51 p.m. Mr. Weber made a motion to resume the regular meeting;
seconded by Mrs. Weber. Motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 1998-R-07 (Supporting H.R. 4171)
22.   Mrs. Henson introduced a resolution supporting a study by the House of
Representatives of the United States Congress for legislation that would
enforce laws to improve the safety of those persons providing assistance at
roadside accident scenes. The laws would require motorists approaching a
roadside emergency to decrease the speed of their vehicle to 10 mph less than
the posted speed limit and move to the traffic lane for their direction of
travel which is furthest from the road side emergency scene.
23.   Mr. Holten made a motion to read the resolution in support of H.R. 4171;
seconded by Mrs. Weber. All ayes motion carried.
24.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept Resolution No. 1998-R-07 as read. Mrs.
Weber seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
Amending the Street Light Ordinance No. 1997-0-22
25.   Mrs. Weber made a motion to have a second reading amending the current
streetlight Ordinance No. 1997-0-22. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. After a
brief discussion the motion was withdrawn. It was decided this would be
postponed until further information can be obtained from Owen Electric
regarding types of streetlights available.
Status of Streetlights in Other Areas
26.   Mrs. Henson asked if lights were going to be installed at the entrance of
the Falcon Ridge Subdivision on Bristow Road. Mr. Scott replied he would check
the status of this matter. Mrs. Weber stated the Hartland Subdivision entrance
boulevard was to have lights installed some time ago and asked where that
matter stood. Mr. Scott stated as of two weeks ago Arlinghaus Builders was
proceeding with the installation of the lights.
Privileges of the Floor
27.   Mr. Brad Reese of the Hunters Green Subdivision came before council to
make them aware of the amount of the vandalism that is occurring in their
neighborhood. He brought photos showing a car’s windshield that was damaged by
a huge rock thrown through it. He also stated mail that included checks was
stolen and mailboxes were set afire. Also cars have been egged. He said long-
standing residents are fearful for their neighborhood safety. He stated the
police department has been helpful and he appreciates their cooperation but the
vandals have continued to reek havoc. Chief Porter commented he is well aware
of the vandalism problems in the subdivision and stated he has taken action
such as having officers do saturation patrol both on foot, bike and cruiser.
The officers cannot stop crime but can help prevent some. He stated the block
watch programs have been well received in other areas of the city and stated
this subdivision needs to set up a block watch as well. He stated he would have
Sgt. Bailey meet with them to get this program underway. Chief commented that
some vandals have been caught in the act and in one instance the victim refused
to prosecute. Mrs. Weber applauded the group in attendance for taking action
and working together to bring peace to their community. She also suggested that
council should review the current curfew ordinance. Mayor Kudera thanked Mr.
Reese and encouraged him to continue his efforts to keep his community safe.
28.   Mr. Vic Morrison of Roselawn Drive addressed council regarding the city
changing it’s image and encouraged everyone to get out and vote in the upcoming
mayor/council election.
Adjournment
29.   At 10:25 p.m. Mrs. Henson made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs.
Weber. Motion carried with all ayes.
______________________________________
                  James Kudera, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
October 20, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kudera called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. by stating that the
purpose of this special meeting was to discuss and take possible action on two
issues. He stated the first order of business on the agenda was the matter of
bonding the Fowler Creek Sewer Project debt. Secondly, there would be
discussion with the possible second reading of an ordinance to transfer the
city’s sanitary sewer system to the Sanitation District No. 1.
2.   Barbara Gabbard, Anita Steffen, Ken Weber, Jaimie Henson, Scott Holten and
Rebecca Weber answered roll call. Also in attendance was Gary Scott, City
Administrator and Linda Schaeffer, City Attorney filling in for Frank Wichmann.
Bonding of the Fowler Creek Sewer Project Debt
3.   Bond Counsel attorney, Dirk Bedarff, of Peck, Shaffer & Williams addressed
council regarding the bid process for bonds. Mr. Bedarff told council that by
bonding the current bank note it would be financed on a permanent basis. He
advised that the city would need to advertise for bids for the purchase of the
bonds (in compliance with KRS Chapter 58) then the bonds would be awarded to
the best bidders. Mrs. Steffen asked what the interest rate would be and Mr.
Bedarff advised the interest rate would be set when the bonds are sold. He also
stated the proposed ordinance estimates an interest rate of 4-½% with a cap of
5-½%. Mrs. Gabbard asked why it would be bonded for 25 years. Mr. Bedarff
stated this allows the city to be at the upper limit. Mayor Kudera reminded
council that at the last meeting they were informed the city had the option for
an early pay off after only twelve years penalty free. Mayor Kudera also
recalled they were advised at the last meeting that the future council will
have the discretion to reduce the $70 quarterly debt reduction payment
currently being paid by the sewer project users or to keep it the same. Mr.
Scott stated the debt will be there whether or not council chooses to bond it
and it may take longer than 25 years if the number of users does not increase
significantly. Mrs. Henson added that the original ordinance was open-ended in
regard to the number of years it would be paid off. She also commented the city
could be debt free sooner if council planned wisely.
Motion for 1st Reading of Bonding Ordinance for Fowler Creek Sewer Project Debt
4.   Mr. Holten made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed ordinance
authorizing the issuance of $6,060,000,000 in bonds for financing of the Fowler
Creek Sewer System Project debt. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion and requested
the ordinance be read in summary form. Motion carried with all ayes. City
Attorney, Linda Schaeffer read the proposed ordinance.
5.   Mayor Kudera opened the floor for discussion. Mrs. Gabbard questioned
mayor/council why this matter was being acted on so quickly. Mrs. Gabbard also
stated she felt the city should hold public meetings so residents could voice
their opinions regarding the bonding of this debt. Several council members
responded. Mrs. Weber commented that she felt this debt should have been bonded
long before now and that council is doing what is best for the city. Mr. Weber
also felt this was a wise move for council to bond this debt, but suggested the
possibility of notifying all affected homeowners by letter explaining what the
purpose of the ordinance was and why council has made this decision. Mayor
Kudera responded to Mr. Weber’s suggestion by advising the longer the city
waited the higher the risk of the interest rates rising. Mrs. Henson stated
some citizens are being misinformed regarding this issue and wanted to stress
that the debt reduction fee the users of this sewer system are being charged is
not going to increase with the bonding of this debt. She also expressed concern
that the city will not be able to make future payments with the current
financing; especially the 5.5M balloon payment that will be due in the year
2003. Mr. Weber stated that as city officials they are being fiscally
responsible and expressed the need to move forward with this.
6.   Mayor Kudera asked the clerk to call the roll on the motion. Roll call was
answered with four yes votes from Mr. Holten, Mrs. Henson, Mrs. Weber and Mr.
Weber; one no vote from Mrs. Gabbard and one abstain from Mrs. Steffen. Motion
carried 4-1-1.
Resolution 1998-R-08 (Authorizing Advertisement for Bond Bids)
7.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to read Resolution 1998-R-08 authorizing the
advertisement for bids for the purchase of a principal amount of $6,060,000 of
General Obligation Improvement Bonds. Mrs. Weber seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes. Ms. Schaeffer read the resolution.
8.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to adopt Resolution 1998-R-08; seconded by Mrs.
Weber. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Transfer of the City Sanitary Sewer System to the Sanitation District No. 1
9.   Mr. Holten made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
Ordinance No. 1998-0-10 to transfer the city’s operational sanitary sewer
system over to Sanitation District No. 1. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion.
Motion carried with all ayes. Ms. Schaeffer read the ordinance.
10.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to accept the second reading of Ordinance No.
1998-0-10. Mrs. Weber seconded the motion.
11.   Mayor Kudera opened the floor for any discussion. Mrs. Steffen commented
that while she sees both the pros and cons regarding the transfer of the sewer
lines to the Sanitation District she is concerned the city might loose some
control. She added that she wants to do what is best for the city. Mrs. Steffen
also discussed some other concerns but Mayor Kudera assured her those concerns
were covered in the ordinance. Mr. Weber stated he feels the Sanitation
District will not extend sewer lines in areas just for the sake of extending
the lines, as they will not be able to afford that without recovering the cost
from users. Mrs. Henson stated she feels the proposed agreement with the
Sanitation District will allow city input regarding any future construction of
sewer lines. Mrs. Weber remarked that joining the Sanitation District at this
time was in the best interest of the city. She stated that she was against
joining the District a few years ago when the city was in the process of
constructing the Fowler Creek Sewer Project improvements as that agreement had
too many restrictions and no guarantee that the District would complete the
project the city had set forth. She continued that she felt the city would have
more freedom with the proposed agreement and would be empowered to extend sewer
lines to other areas if so inclined. Mrs. Weber also maintained that when the
GRW study debt ($203,220.00) was paid off the city could use the debt reduction
fees to other advantages. Mrs. Gabbard interjected that she still didn’t see
what the rush was to transfer the city’s control of the sewer system over to
the Sanitation District and again asked that the city hold a couple of public
hearings for citizen input.
12.   Mayor Kudera closed the floor for discussion and asked the clerk to call
the roll. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by
Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried with a 5-1 vote in favor.
13.   At 7:35 p.m. Mr. Holten made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Weber.
Motion carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned.
____________________________________
James Kudera, Mayor
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 10, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kudera called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation.
2.   Council Members Ken Weber, Anita Steffen, Rebecca Weber, Scott Holten,
Barbara Gabbard and Jaimie Henson answered roll call. Also in attendance was
the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Frank Wichmann.
3.   Mr. Scott read a letter from former Mayor Marion Schadler wherein he
thanked Mayor Kudera and Council for presenting him with the plaque that had
been mounted on the old city building as it is scheduled for demolition. In his
letter he stated the plaque would be displayed in his Oxley Museum located at
5234 Madison Pike as a reminder of the history of Independence. Mayor Kudera
requested a copy of the letter from Mr. Schadler be attached to the official
minutes of this meeting.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
4.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the council minutes of October 10, 1998
as amended. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Motion passed with all ayes; no
roll call.
5.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to accept the council minutes of the special
meeting of October 20, 1998, as amended. Mr. Holten seconded the motion. Motion
passed with all ayes; no roll call.
Motion (and discussion) to Bond the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt
6.   Mr. Holten made a motion to have a second reading on the proposed
ordinance authorizing the issuance of $6,060,000.00 in bonds for the Fowler
Creek Sewer Project debt. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion
carried 5-1. Mr. Wichmann read the proposed ordinance.
7.   Mayor Kudera opened the floor for discussion relating to the bond issue.
Mrs. Gabbard stated she felt the timing for this was wrong for doing this sort
of major project with a new mayor and council taking office in a couple of
months. She also suggested the city should hold public hearings for citizen
input. Mr. Holten replied he felt the timing is right especially with the
interest rates at an all-time low. He also commented this sewer project has
been on going, from the onset of the planning until the present with the
completion of construction., for approximately nine years, and did not
understand how Mrs. Gabbard could defend her comment that council is rushing
into the bonding of this debt. Mrs. Henson added the city only has enough
financial resources to meet this year’s payment for the present loan for this
debt. Mrs. Gabbard stated the city might have the money for next year’s
payment. Mrs. Henson stated that based on the assessment rates now being
collected the city will not have the money for the next year’s payment. Mrs.
Steffen remarked that while she somewhat agrees with Mrs. Gabbard, she feels
this decision to bond the debt will give the city some flexibility and feels
the need to proceed.
8.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to accept the second reading of Ordinance No.
1998-O-11 authorizing the bonding of the Fowler Creek Sewer Project debt. Mr.
Weber seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one
no vote cast by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor for the adoption of
Ordinance No. 1998-O-11.
Discussion on Proposed Amendment of Street Lighting Ordinance
9.   New information regarding the types of lights available for installation
in subdivisions has surfaced and discussion as to whether or not to proceed
with the second reading of the proposed amendment to this ordinance ensued.
Originally, Owen Electric could only install sodium vapor (yellow) lights,
which are prohibited in our current ordinance. Mr. Dan Briggs of Cardinal
Engineering stated that Owen Electric has recently applied for a tariff sheet,
which would allow them to install mercury vapor (white) lights as the city
ordinance mandates. Mr. Wichmann recommended not doing anything on the proposed
amended ordinance, in essence tabling the second reading. Mrs. Henson felt if
the proposed ordinance passed then Owen Electric would install the yellow
sodium vapor lights instead of the white mercury vapor the city prefers. Mr.
Wichmann stated he was not aware of a time limit between first and second
readings of a proposed ordinance.
10.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend the current streetlight Ordinance No. 1997-O-22. Mr. Holten
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried; Mr.
Wichmann read the proposed ordinance.
11.   Mrs. Henson made a motion to accept the second reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend the current street light Ordinance No. 1997-O-22 as read.
Mr. Holten seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with six not votes.
Motion defeated 6-0.
12.   Mrs. Weber commented that she hoped this issue of providing street lights
would not die and stressed the need for council to address this in the future
as many neighborhoods are requesting this service. Mrs. Weber expressed concern
for subdivisions that are having problems with vandalism and asked the police
chief if this type of activity decreases during the winter months. He replied
that generally it does decrease during the cold months with the increase being
in the summer when school is out. Mr. Briggs will keep in contact with Owen
Electric regarding the availability of the mercury vapor (white) lights.
Other Street Lighting Up-dates
13.   Under old business, Mrs. Henson wanted to inform everyone that the street
lights for the Falcon Ridge Subdivision has not been forgotten, rather the
Bristow Road re-construction project has delayed the installation for the time
being. Mrs. Weber asked for an update on the lighting of the main road of the
Hartland Subdivision. Mr. Briggs reported a lighting plan has been submitted
and approved and should be installed soon. He also added that a transformer
would be installed for future use, if necessary. He stated the lights will not
be placed down the center of the boulevard but on the park side and the lights
will be bright enough to illuminate the entire boulevard. Mrs. Weber asked
about “Slow – Children at Play” signs being placed in the new subdivisions. Mr.
Scott replied the signs had been ordered.
Hartland Park “Tot Lot” Bids
14.   Under new business, Mr. Scott stated the city had received three bids for
the construction of a “tot lot” in the Hartland Park. Bids were received from
Jennings, Gametime and Little Tikes Commercial Play Systems. Mrs. Donna Yeager,
IRC (Independence Recreation Commission) Chairperson, presented council with a
report of the evaluation/comparison of each bid received. Mr. Scott went on to
say that the consensus of the IRC was that the best bid was the one submitted
by Little Tikes. It was the highest bid at $19,107.00 (the lowest being
$16,726.00) but included a drainage system. Mr. Scott reported the City of
Dayton gave a good recommendation for Little Tikes. Mr. Holten asked Mrs.
Yeager if she felt the Little Tikes bid was 15% better than the other two bids
submitted as 15% is a substantial difference. She replied that it was because
it met all required specifications and then some. Mr. Steve Feldhaus, council
member-elect, commented the drainage system included in the Little Tikes bid is
in-ground which will drain the water away and is the reason for the price
difference. Mrs. Henson asked what age group this play equipment was designed
for. Mr. Yeager stated it is for the 5-12 years of age range. Mrs. Henson asked
about equipment for the 0-5 age group. Mrs. Yeager commented additional money
would need to be budgeted in order to purchase more playground equipment. There
was a short discussion on the use of chopped tires versus wood chips for the
surface. Mr. Feldhaus stated that fire retardant wood chips are available and
felt this would be preferable over chopped tires which are not fire-retardant.
Mrs. Henson requested “No Smoking” signs be placed in the city parks. Mr.
Holten suggested this might not be a good idea since the state of Kentucky’s
main commodity is tobacco. Mayor Kudera and Mr. Holten thanked Mrs. Yeager for
all the volunteer work she had done on behalf of the city parks. Mrs. Henson
asked when the “tot lot” would be installed. Mrs. Yeager stated the bid
required the equipment to be in place no later than April 30, 1999.
15.   Mrs. Weber asked if the city has insurance coverage for individuals who
do volunteer work for the city. Mr. Scott replied he would check on that with
the city’s insurance agent. Mayor Kudera added he has recently engaged with
Schiff, Kreidler-Shell to handle the city’s insurance needs; a much-needed
change. He went on to say the city was under insured with the old policies. He
stated the new insurance package and carrier went into effect on October 26,
1998 with more extensive and comprehensive coverage. Mr. Scott will check into
coverage regarding large volunteer groups.
Sewering of Carrie Way/Madison Pike “Pocket Areas” – Comprehensive Report
16.   Mr. Briggs of Cardinal Engineering submitted to council a comprehensive
report to sewer the “pocket area” of Carrie Way and Madison Pike. Mr. Briggs
reviewed the report with council wherein five proposals are included and
designed for an assessment project. This sewer improvement would be the
construction of a gravity system between 5233 Madison Pike and 5235 Madison
Pike. Parcels affected include 5233, 5235, 5241, 5243, 5245 Madison Pike and 10
Carrie Way. The only property that currently has sewer service in this project
is 5245 Madison Pike; current owner – Swindler Funeral Homes, Inc. Mrs. Henson
asked Mr. Briggs if he looked at the possibility of going around the funeral
home’s parking lot. Mr. Briggs replied that would add further costs to the
project. Mrs. Gabbard asked if Mr. Currin of the funeral home had given an
easement or was interested in giving an easement to the city. Mr. Briggs
replied no easements had been obtained yet. Mr. Currin who was in the audience
commented he just recently learned of this project and that he is willing to be
a good neighbor but is concerned about being assessed for this project when he
is already tapped in to sewers. Mr. Briggs commented the funeral home is tapped
into a private system not a public one. Mr. Holten stated he would agree to
eliminate the option that includes the funeral home as long as Mr. Currin is
going to take full responsibility for his lateral line. Discussion ensued
regarding the time frame to get this project started. The city attorney advised
that a copy of the comprehensive report would need to be sent to all affected
homeowners and a public hearing would need to be held. Mr. Wichmann also stated
that he would need a day or so to review the report and then speak with the
mayor about setting a date for a public hearing.
17.   Mayor Kudera asked Mrs. Chapman if this plan settled the matter for her.
Mrs. Chapman, 10 Carrie Way, asked what was going to e done about Independence
Christian Church contaminating her lake. Mayor Kudera stated that was a
separate issue. Mrs. Chapman also stated she doesn’t understand why none of the
proposed plans for this section of sewer improvements isn’t utilizing the
manhole on her property. She went on to say that she would speak with her
attorney about suing the city if her manhole isn’t used. Mrs. Henson asked why
she would sue the city if her manhole is not used but sue if the manhole is
used. She stated the city installed this manhole several years ago and feels
the manhole should be removed if it is not going to be used. Mrs. Chapman
stated she grows tobacco and is unable to earn a fair price because of the
condition of the ground around the manhole. Mrs. Chapman requested the council
members to look at her land. Mrs. Henson, Mrs. Steffen and Mr. Scott stated
they would set up a time to inspect the field. Mr. Briggs advised council the
problem is not with Mrs. Chapman’s manhole but with the surrounding land.
Miscellaneous Up-Dates
18.   Mayor Kudera asked Chief Porter about the vandalism problem on the west
side of town. Chief Porter replied a Block Watch Program has been set up in the
Hunters Green Subdivision.
19.   Mrs. Henson informed the police chief she has received reports that
police officers are congregating in area parking lots for what appears to e the
purpose of talking. She stated the budget was increased to include more
officers so that an officer could be in each section of the city on each shift
and wondered why they would congregate. Chief Porter stated the officers are
encouraged to share information so this is within the realm of their duties so
long as it is not excessive. Mrs. Henson also noted that it appears Kenton
County Police are still providing a lot of backup to the city. Police. Chief
Porter responded that often the county police would respond if they are in the
vicinity and find the call interesting.
20.   Mrs. Steffen informed council the OKI Board of Trustees is presently
taking nominations for next year. The city representative needs to be an
elected official. She noted that she would leave copies of the nomination form
at the city office for the newly elected council members.
21.   Mrs. Henson stated the CPCAC is seeking nominations for next year, also.
She stated the city representative does not have to be an elected official; an
be, but not necessary. Mrs. Weber stated that twice she applied for a seat on
the CPC board and never received a response.
Closing Remarks
22.   In closing, Mayor Kudera acknowledged some matters that council had been
working on had been deferred due to more pressing issues taking precedence and
he stated those matters could be placed on the next agenda. He stated the
Personnel Committee should be ready by the December meeting with the updated
manual. He reported the health coverage for the employees is being reviewed for
possible improvement.
23.   Ms. Weber wanted council to be ware of the two co-op students working in
city offices. Tricia Green is a senior at Simon Kenton High School and is
working in the clerk’s office and Jamie Cooper, also of Simon Kenton High
School is working in the police department.
24.   Mrs. Henson announced the Second Annual Downtown Christmas Walk and Tour
would take place on Wednesday evening, December 9, 1998 from 6:00 p.m. until 9:
00 p.m. The walk will open at the Independence Christian Church with the
lighting of the community Christmas tree. Santa Claus, refreshments, door
prizes, horse carriage rides and historic homes will be decorated and open for
viewing. Mrs. Henson encouraged participation and/or attendance.
25.   Mr. Scott informed council he was proceeding with the ISTEA grant
application. In the application he is requesting grant money to help finance
the installment and replacement of sidewalks on Madison Pike beginning at
Summit View Schools to the Independence Towne Center area. This would provide
for continuous walkways closing all present gaps. The grant is due by December
4, 1998 and will be available at the city office for review.
26.   Mr. Scott also commented that he expected to hear something regarding the
Senior/Community Center grant the city applied for no later than the first part
of December.
Cancellation of the November 24 and December 22, 1998 Regular Meetings
27.   Mayor Kudera reminded council that historically the second meetings in
the months of November and December are cancelled due to the Thanksgiving and
Christmas holidays. Council discussed this briefly.
28.   Mr. Holten made a motion to cancel the November 24, 1998 and December 22,
1998 regular council meetings due to the holidays during those weeks with the
stipulation that a special meeting could be held if necessary. Mrs. Weber
seconded the motion. Motion passed with all ayes; no roll called.
Adjournment
29.   At 8:20 p.m. Mr. Weber made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Henson.
Motion carried with all ayes.
______________________________________
                  James Kudera, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
December 8, 1998
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Council Member, Rebecca Weber called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Ken Weber, Anita Steffen,
Rebecca Weber, Scott Holten, Barbara Gabbard and Jaimie Henson answered roll
call. Also in attendance were the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City
Attorney, Lawson Walker. Mayor Jim Kudera was absent due to outpatient surgery
performed earlier in the day. Mrs. Weber presided over the meeting.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
2.   Mr. Holten made a motion to accept the council minutes of November 10,
1998 as submitted. Mrs. Henson seconded the motion. Motion passed with all
ayes; no roll call.
Second Annual Christmas Walk
3.   Mrs. Henson reminded council of the Second Annual Downtown Christmas Walk
and Tour on Wednesday evening December 9, 1998 between the hours of 6:00 and 9:
00 p.m. The festivities will commence with the lighting of the community
Christmas tree at the Independence Christian Church and the community is
invited to decorate the tree. The Walk and Tour will take place on Madison Pike
between the Independence Christian Church and St. Cecilia Church. Other
activities include carriage rides, tours through the Oxley Museum, visits with
Santa and choirs performing at two locations.
New City Attorney
4.   Mrs. Weber introduced Mr. H. Lawson Walker as the new city attorney.
Finance Reports and Checks Issued List
5.   Mrs. Gabbard questioned the payment made to Estes Engineering which was
listed on the Check Reconciliation Report submitted in the council packets. Mr.
Scott explained the payment was made for outstanding invoices from 1995 in
exchange for city records that Estes Engineering was in possession of. Mr.
Scott stated this payment was for full settlement.
Old Business
6.   It was the consensus of council to forego a first reading on the proposed
ordinance relating to the design and construction of improvements in
developments as the majority of the council members terms would end on December
31, 1998. They felt it would be best for the incoming mayor and council members
to address that proposed ordinance.
Personnel Policy Update
7.   Mr. Scott reported the personnel policy update was being submitted to
council for adoption by resolution. He stated the policy had been sent to the
Municipal Law Center, the Department of Local Government, Northern Kentucky
Area Development District and former city attorney, Frank Wichmann for review.
The changes were made as advised by the professionals. Mr. Weber commented she
had not been given ample time to review the new policy and did not feel ready
to take action on this. Mrs. Gabbard concurred and stated she also had not read
the policy yet. Mr. Weber made comments regarding several sections of the
policy that he disagreed with namely probationary status, performance
evaluations, notice of retirement bonus and the involuntary separation section.
Mr. Holten commented he had questions regarding the Retirement & Reception
section. Mrs. Gabbard stated she felt the grievance procedure section and the
“at-will employees” term were contradictions. A lengthy discussion ensued
regarding these sections of the proposed policy. City Attorney, Mr. Walker
stated he had not read the proposed policy as it was just given to him, but he
advised the council members of the legal aspects on the sections that were
brought up for discussion.
8.   Mrs. Weber commented that updating the personnel policy has been an on-
going project for the last few years and feels it is still not ready for
approval. She would like Mr. Walker to review it and then let the new mayor and
council approve it. Mrs. Henson commented it has taken two years to draw up
this policy and encouraged council to pass it by resolution.
9.   Mr. Walker explained to council the difference between an ordinance and a
resolution and that city policy can be passed by either one. He stated that
ordinances as defined are permanent by nature but that a resolution would be
just as effective. He stated the personnel policy does not need to be adopted
by ordinance and in fact is more economically practical to pass it by
resolution, as a resolution does not require publication. Mr. Holten stated he
felt all members of council would never be able to agree on every section of
the personnel policy and the policy presented to council was far superior to
the present policy.
Motion to Adopt Resolution Number 1998-R-09 (Personnel Policies)
10.   Mr. Holten made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 1998-R-09 updating the
personnel policy. Motion seconded by Mrs. Henson. Roll call vote was answered
with four yes vote and two no votes by Mr. Weber & Mrs. Weber. Motion carried
4-2.
Motion to Adopt Resolution Number 1998-R-10 (City owned Property)
11.   Thomas Rumpke, attorney for Deters, Benzinger & LaVelle law firm,
addressed council requesting the adoption of a resolution that would authorize
the mayor to sign a Release and Waiver of Restrictions for lots 20 & 21 of the
New Frontier Subdivision which is currently owned by the City of Independence.
In 1964 the developer of the subdivision placed a number of restrictions of
record for lots 1 – 21. He explained that in 1976 Swindler Funeral Home
acquired original lots number one and two in order to expand their parking lot.
He went on to say this use was in violation of the subdivision restrictions and
in order to expand the parking lot had to obtain a signed release and waiver of
the restrictions from all the record owners of the remaining lots. At the time
lots 20 & 21 were owned by Union Savings & Loan Association. Mr. Rumpke stated
that Swindler Funeral Home just recently discovered that there is no
recognizable or notarized signature from a representative of that bank on the
release. As the city is the current owner of the lots in question, Swindler is
requesting the city to sign a release and waiver. Mrs. Henson made a motion,
seconded by Mr. Holten to adopt Resolution Number 1998-R-10 authorizing Mayor
Kudera to sign the Release and Waiver of Restrictions for the city owned lots
20 & 21 of the New Frontier Subdivision. No roll call, motion carried with all
ayes.
Chapman Property on Carrie Way
12.   Mrs. Steffen reported she had met with the Chapman’s and inspected their
property on Carrie Way. She stated the ground was so wet they were not able to
get their tobacco out. Mr. Scott and Mr. Briggs commented they too had
inspected the property and said they could not see any evidence where tobacco
had been planted in many years. Mr. Holten stated the Chapman’s have two
problems – 1) Sanitary - which the city is trying to rectify and, 2) excess
storm water running onto their property from the Independence Christian Church,
in which the city should not intervene.
Closing Comments
13.   Mrs. Henson thanked everyone for the last two years she has sat on
council. Mrs. Weber thanked Mayor Kudera for the last several months he spent
as the interim mayor. She stated she appreciated his energy and dedication for
all he was able to accomplish. She also wished good luck to the incoming mayor,
Tom Kriege and new council members.
Adjournment
14.   At 7:50 p.m. Mrs. Henson made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr.
Holten. Motion carried with all ayes.
___________________________________________
Presiding Official, Rebecca Weber, Council Member
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
1999 Minutes
January 12, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Reverend Charles Steger of Hickory Grove Baptist Church gave the
invocation. Mayor Kriege welcomed everyone and introduced the five new council
members. Council members Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps Greg Steffen,
Donna Yeager and Steve Feldhaus answered roll call. Also in attendance were the
City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Lawson Walker.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of December 8,
1998 as submitted. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Motion passed with all
ayes; no roll call.
Request for Sewer Services at Oby Drive & Madison Pike by Mr. Nordman Meier
3.   Mr. Nordman Meier of 11448 Madison Pike addressed council with a request
to have sewer lines extended to two houses he owns at the corner of Madison
Pike and Oby Drive and a third house which he plans to build there. He stated
two easements would need to be obtained which he would like the city to do. He
feels the neighbors would be agreeable to signing easements to cross their
property. After a brief discussion, the city attorney reminded council the city
had recently turned over ownership of the city sewer lines to the Sanitation
District. Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Meier to take his request to the Sanitation
District with the assurance that the city would assist in the process if
needed.
Privileges of the Floor
4.   Mr. Russell Connors of 10950 Taylor Mill Road addressed council regarding
the highly publicized and anticipated Y2K computer crash in the year 2000. He
stated he believes there will be disruptions with the loss of electrical power,
telecommunications and banking services. He would like to see the city make
preparations, suggested employing contingency plans, and offered to be a part
of a group that develops a plan. Mayor Kriege thanked Mr. Connors and advised
him that local government officials have begun to look at the issue and he will
contact him in the near future. The mayor assured him the city would be
investigating some preliminary strategies.
Dr. Dennis Sies, N.K.U. Director of Master in Public Admin. Program
5.   Dr. Sies submitted to council a proposal in which his department would
conduct a services/satisfaction survey for the city. The MPA Program at N.K.U.
would design, administer and evaluate the survey for the city for the sum of
$2,000. The cost of mailing the survey and return postage would be additional.
His proposal suggested mailing the survey with the city newsletter in February.
He stated the survey process would begin immediately and end in May with a
final report to council. Dr. Sies stated that his department has conducted this
type of survey with Grant County and the cities of Fort Thomas and Edgewood.
There was a brief discussion that included what purpose the survey would serve
and how to fund this unbudgeted expense. Dr. Sies commented that the result of
this type of survey is generally used as a planning tool to improve services to
the community.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to proceed with the services/satisfaction
survey to be conducted by the MPA Department of N.K.U. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Northern Kentucky Area Development District Proposals
7.   Mr. Brian Dehner from the NKADD addressed council with a proposal to
perform several risk management projects for the city. The projects include: 1)
the development of a web site, 2) the development of employee job descriptions,
3) the development of an employee performance review and improvement process,
4) the development of an employee benefit and pay plan, 5) the analysis of
compliance of wage and hour laws, and 6) strategic planning. He stated the
total cost for all six projects is $9,000 and he assured council the NKADD
would be flexible with the city regarding payment for these services. Mr. Scott
commented the money for the codification of ordinances would not be spent out
of this year’s budget and suggested using those funds for the proposed
projects. Mr. Dehner stated he would lead the projects with assistance from
three other people in his division. Discussion centered on finding the funds to
back these projects in the budget. Mayor Kriege stated an amended budget would
be presented to council sometime in February.
8.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to enter into a contract with the Northern
Kentucky Area Development District for the proposal and bid as submitted for a
total of $9,000. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all
ayes. Mrs. Gabbard clarified her vote by stating she voted yes on the condition
that the budget would be amended to include this expense. Motion carried 6-0 in
favor.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Police Department – Ed Porter
9.   Chief Porter reported the Records Management program which links with
other community records at the local police departments went into effect
January 1, 1999 and is totally operational. He also reported his department has
been re-working the operational policies and procedures in order to acquire
state accreditation. He stated they would begin the application process, which
should be complete by July 1999. Mr. Feldhaus asked if receiving the state
certification would lower the city’s liability insurance rate. Chief Porter
felt that it should. Mr. Scott stated he would check with the city’s insurance
carrier to confirm this. In closing, Chief Porter commented the Neighborhood
Block Watch Program, with four current programs, is going well despite the bad
weather.
Building Inspector – Al Bowling
10.   Mr. Bowling suggested to council the need for a zoning text amendment
regarding the R-RE zones. He stated the Board of Adjustments would like to see
this change to avoid unnecessary hearings. The R-RE zone in Independence is
mainly in the Mills Road/Hill-n-Dale Drive areas, which affects many homes.
Mayor Kriege stated that while he has no objection to this request he suggested
Mr. Bowling look at other cities’ restrictions for the R-RE zone and then bring
the text amendment request back to council when he can supply more information.
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
11.   Mr. Scott informed council that GBBN Architects is working with the city
on a feasibility study for a municipal building which will include site
selection criteria, cost estimates, etc. The approximate cost for the study
will be $5,000- $7,000. Mr. Feldhaus recalled the city doing a feasibility
study about five years ago and advised Mr. Scott a copy may still be on file at
the city building. Mr. Scott also reported that computer hardware and software
estimates have been provided to the city to update Y2K compliance. The proposal
is for $6,000 for all city departments. Mr. Scott stated he has interviewed and
made a selection for a Zoning Administrator. He advised the mayor would meet
the candidate next week and make a recommendation to council at the next
meeting. Mr. Scott stated there is still a chance we may share the zoning
administrator with the City of Taylor Mill but that this candidate is not yet a
certified building inspector and Taylor Mill needs a certified building
inspector immediately.
Appointments To Boards And Committees
12.   Mayor Kriege recommended appointing council member, Donna Yeager as the
city’s representative to the OKI Regional Council of Governments. Mr. Feldhaus
made a motion to accept Mayor Kriege’s appointment of Mrs. Yeager to the OKI
Council. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried.
13.   Mayor Kriege stated he would like to re-appoint Sandy Brewer, Stan Kahrs
and Sandra Woolum to the Board of Ethics as their terms have expired. Mr.
Feldhaus made a motion to accept the mayor’s recommendation to re-appoint Ms.
Brewer, Mr. Kahrs and Mrs. Woolum to the Board of Ethics. Mrs. Yeager seconded
the motion. Motion carried with all ayes; no roll call. Mayor Kriege read
Executive Order Number 1999-EO-01 appointing Sandy Brewer to the Board of
Ethics, Executive Order Number 1999-EO-02 appointing Stan Kahrs to the Board of
Ethics and Executive Order Number 1999-EO-03 appointing Sandra Woolum to the
Board of Ethics.
14.   Mayor Kriege informed council of the two vacancies on the Board of Ethics
and recommended appointing Jed K. Deters and Mary Pat Behler. Mr. Feldhaus made
a motion to approve the recommendation of Mr. Deters and Ms. Behler to the
Board of Ethics. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Motion carried with five ayes
and one nay cast by Mrs. Gabbard.
15.   Mayor Kriege informed council there is a vacancy on the Board of
Adjustments and he will make a recommendation to fill this position at the next
council meeting. He also stated the council committees would be determined at
the next meeting.
Mayor’s Report – Tom Kriege
16.   Mayor Kriege expressed appreciation for the support he received in being
elected mayor, stating he looked forward to four good years, and encouraged all
the people to contact him with their input.
17.   The Mayor announced that the Metcalfe-Stephens house located at 5241
Madison Pike was placed on the National Register of Historic Places on November
12, 1998. He commented this listing is an exciting recognition for our
community and he plans to encourage preservation of the historic district in
the city.
Contract With H. Lawson Walker As The City Attorney
18.   Mayor Kriege submitted to council two options for contracting with H.
Lawson Walker to provide legal counsel for the city. Under “Plan A” Mr. Walker
would attend all council meetings and perform routine city business for $1,200/
month. “Plan B” would provide for everything except litigation and
administrative hearings for $2,500/month. Council members questioned Mr. Walker
regarding both “Plans”. Mr. Walker commented that he believes the hiring of the
city attorney is an executive power of the mayor and that both “Plans” permit
the city to terminate the legal representation agreement on thirty days notice.
19.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to contract with Mr. Walker as the city
attorney under the “Plan A” proposal. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mrs. Gabbard.
Public Hearings For AT&T Cellular Tower At 5388 Madison Pike
20.   Mayor Kriege reported the Kenton County & Municipal Planing & Zoning
Commission has re-scheduled the public hearing for the proposed cell tower to
be constructed on the Highland Cemetery property at 5388 Madison Pike to
February 11, 1999 at 9:00 a.m. Mr. Feldhaus voiced opposition that the KCMPZ
Commission was holding a public hearing at a time (9:00 a.m.) when most of the
public is unable to attend. He asked the city attorney if he could draft a
resolution to document formal opposition with the Commission. After a brief
discussion, Mr. Walker drafted a resolution petitioning the Commission to
change the time and date of the public hearing regarding the cell tower to be
constructed at the Highland Cemetery on Madison Pike, which he read. Mr.
Feldhaus made a motion to accept Resolution No. 1999-R-01 as read. Mr. Steffen
seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Annual Planning Session
21.   Mayor Kriege advised council the Planning Session has been scheduled for
January 29 & 30, 1999 at the Fort Mitchell Holiday Inn. Tentative times are 5:
00-9:00 p.m. on Friday and 9:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. on Saturday.
Representatiave To The N.K.A.P. Council
22.   Mayor Kriege stated he would be the primary representative to the NKAP
Council and Mr. Ellison agreed to act as the alternate.
Closing Comments
23.   There was a brief discussion relating to holding an executive session to
discuss litigation. Mr. Walker requested council to wait until the next meeting
so that he could brief himself on all pending litigation and would therefore be
in a better position to advise council. Mayor and council agreed.
Adjournment
24.   At 9:16 p.m. Mr. Ellison made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs.
Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
___________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
January 26, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Council members Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps Greg
Steffen, Donna Yeager and Steve Feldhaus answered roll call. Also in attendance
were the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Lawson Walker.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of January 12,
1999 as submitted. Mrs. Gabbard stated she wanted the minutes to reflect the
reason she voted no on the motion to contract with Lawson Walker as City
Attorney. Mayor Kriege requested the clerk listen to the tape and re-submit the
minutes at the next meeting. The motion died for lack of a second.
Appointment of Kevin Barbian as Zoning Administrator
3.   Mr. Scott introduced Kevin Barbian as the new city’s zoning administrator.
Mr. Barbian is currently a part-time employee of the City of Fort Thomas in the
zoning department and will continue to work for Fort Thomas in addition to
contracting on a part-time basis for Independence. He will begin work for the
city on February 10, 1999 when Al Bowling, Building Inspector, returns from
vacation. Mr. Scott mentioned that Mr. Barbian would take the building
inspection certification exam in March.
Gene Daniels Zone Change Request of the Jos. Knapp Property at 11011 Madison
Pike
4.   Mr. Gene Daniels presented to council his proposal to develop property on
the southeast corner of Madison Pike and Harris Pike, which is currently owned
by Joseph Knapp. He stated the property is approximately 5.5 acres and he would
like council to consider changing the zone from R1-C to NC (neighborhood
commercial). The entire development would consist of a Dairy Mart (with
gasoline pumps) and possibly a drug store, dry cleaners and offices. Mr.
Daniels advised he would develop the property in stages as the land has a lake
and steep hill that would be filled in when the state highway department
reconstructs Madison Pike. The new road will cut through the middle of this
property. Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission approved the
zone change request as they felt no one would erect a residential structure
that would be encased by a highway. The Northern Kentucky Area Planning &
Zoning staff recommendation was to deny the zone change, as it was not part of
the 5-year Comprehensive Plan. A brief discussion ensued regarding the fact
this is the second time Mr. Daniels has brought this request before council.
The previous council denied his request and Mr. Daniels has filed a lawsuit
appealing the city’s adverse decision. Mr. Daniels is requesting the newly
seated council and mayor reverse the previous council’s decision. Since this is
a pending lawsuit, council decided to discuss this issue further in executive
session later on in the meeting.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
5.   Mr. Scott reported the Annual Planning Session is scheduled for Friday and
Saturday January 29 and 30, 1999. The session will be held Friday from 5:00
p.m. until 9:00 p.m. and on Saturday from 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. He advised
the attempt of the Planning Session is to put together long range and short
range plans for the city. He also stated that in February he would be working
on forming a Strategic Planning Group that would develop an integral plan for
the city.
6.   In response to questions asked at the last meeting regarding a building
feasibility study contracted a few years ago, Mr. Scott reported that in
researching this matter he learned that bids were accepted and the bid was
awarded to R. Ehmet Hayes & Associates to do a feasibility study. He stated
that for unknown reasons, a contract was never entered into with Hayes &
Associates to actually perform the feasibility study. Mr. Scott advised council
that the city has contracted with GBBN Architects to perform a building
feasibility study, which will include design plans, site plans, building costs,
etc. He stated he would keep council apprised of the progress of the study.
7.   Mr. Scott reported the potholes throughout the city are being repaired as
quickly as possible. Two streets, Holton Drive and Fleming Drive are immediate
problems and Willow Drive is in need of major repairs.
8.   Budget – Mr. Scott advised that an amended budget for the current fiscal
year will be presented to council in February and that discussions/meetings
will soon begin to work on next year’s budget.
Police Department – Ed Porter
9.   Chief Porter reported that Officer Phil Dunford has completed D.A.R.E.
training and will be filling that position in the department. Currently the
D.A.R.E. program services six hundred fourth and fifth graders in four schools
in Independence each week. This program is funded by a grant and is a very
positive program for the department.
Dave Whitacre – Cardinal Engineering
10.   Mr. Whitacre advised council that as soon as he is provided with proposed
funding for the 1999/2000 budget he would begin establishing priority projects
for the coming year. He stated he has a “wish list” of projects that need to be
performed amounting to $450,000. A discussion ensued regarding how to bid out
the road work projects when a final fund amount won’t be determined for a few
months until the budget process is well under way. The Public Works Committee
can begin work on a priority list of street repairs as soon as the committee is
established. Mr. Whitacre stated they would continue to update the 5-year
street plan listing in order to bring the roads up to a decent condition and
continue maintenance on the roads currently in good shape. He reported the
streets are prioritized according to need and that most were very serviceable
going into this winter. He advised council that street repair bids should be
out as soon as possible as the contractors have not scheduled work for the 1999
spring/summer yet. He stated he would need a more accurate dollar amount to be
budgeted for street repairs before bids requested. Council decided to discuss
the street repair matter in more detail at the Planning Session this weekend.
11.   Mr. Whitacre also informed council that most developers did not have
final plats prior to the establishment of the streetlighting ordinance, which
required developers to install streetlights in the new subdivisions.
12.   Mr. Whitacre indicated storm water floods are a problem in the Industrial
Park area of the city. He feels the detention basins were developed according
to regulations but there are still problems with flooding as the storm sewers
are undersized and the detention areas are too small. The future needs are to
be determined.
13.   Mrs. Yeager asked Mr. Whitacre for the status of the Chapman property in
regard to the needed sewers in that area. Mr. Whitacre reviewed the options to
provide sewer to this “pocket area” to the new council members. He advised it
would take approximately $45,000 to do this sewer project. He stated the last
council considered the options but had made no decision. The topic of providing
sewers to “pocket areas” resulted in a brief discussion. Mr. Walker reminded
council that all sewer lines, easements, etc. had been turned over to the
Sanitation District. But it was the consensus of council to assist the
residents in areas of the city that desire sewer service. Some council members
stated the city had assured certain areas would be sewered at a later date and
would like to see the city fulfill this promise. Mr. Whitacre agreed to put
together a package to address those areas – stating that cost estimates could
run between $8,00-$12,000 per lot and as high as $21,000 per lot. He will
provide a summary of those cost estimates.
Appointment of Anita Steffen to the Board of Adjustments
14.   Mayor Kriege recommended the appointment of Anita Steffen to the Board of
Adjustments. Mr. Feldhaus voiced an objection as Mrs. Steffen is the spouse of
a current council member and he felt the city should take applications to fill
this position. He suggested tabling this appointment until the next meeting.
15.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to table the appointment of the vacant
position on the Board of Adjustments. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Motion
defeated with two yes votes and four no votes.
16.   A brief discussion ensued concerning any infraction this appointment may
cause. Mr. Walker recommended Mr. Steffen abstain from voting on this matter
before council. Other than that, he did not feel this appointment should
present an ethical conflict of interest.
17.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to appoint Anita Steffen to the Board of
Adjustments as recommended by Mayor Kriege. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with three yes votes, two no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and
Mr. Ellison, and one abstain vote cast by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 3-2-1.
Old Business
18.   Mr. Walker informed council that the request the city made to the Kenton
County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission to re-schedule the public hearing
for the AT&T cell tower was denied as it is their policy to hold these meetings
in the a.m. because this is not a zone change.
Resolution 1999-R-02 Requesting KCMP&Z to Reschedule Public Hearing
19.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have the city attorney read Resolution No.
1999-R-02 petitioning the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning to
reschedule all public hearings to evening hours when the public is able to
attend. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried with all
ayes.
Mayor’s Report – Tom Kriege
20.   Mayor Kriege referred council to a letter received from a Mr. Trenkamp
regarding the TANK bus routes in Independence. Mr. Trenkamp’s grandchildren go
to school in Latonia and ride the bus from Latonia to Independence on school
days. As there is limited TANK bus service in Independence his grandchildren
have to walk several blocks to their home on Sylvan Drive. Mr. Trenkamp was
concerned over the limited bus service and also the condition of sidewalks on
Madison Pike, where there are sidewalks. There was a brief discussion wherein
it was noted TANK, in the past, has maintained additional ridership is
necessary in order for them to increase bus service in this area. Council
directed Mr. Scott to call TANK and investigate options for increased bus
service and then reply to Mr. Trenkamp.
21.   Mayor Kriege reminded council the Annual Planning Session would be held
this weekend: Friday 5-9 p.m. and Saturday 9 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. The planning
session is open to the public and encouraged citizens to attend.
Executive Session
22.   At 8:25 p.m. Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to enter into executive session
for the purpose of discussing litigation matters according to K.R.S. 61.810 and
also take a brief recess to give the cable company time to pack up their
equipment. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
23.   At 9:15 p.m. Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to close the executive session
and return to the regular meeting; seconded by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried with
all ayes
Closing Comments
24.   Mayor Kriege commented that the city attorney would be contacting Mr.
Daniels’ attorney regarding the pending lawsuit to appeal the zone change
request denied by council.
Adjournment
25.   At 9:20 p.m. Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager.
Motion carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned
___________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
February 9, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Reverend Greg Fightmaster of Beechgrove Baptist Church gave the
invocation. Council members Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps, Greg
Steffen and Donna Yeager answered roll call. Mr. Feldhaus was absent. Also in
attendance were the City Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney,
Lawson Walker.
Adoption of Council Meeting Minutes
2.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to accept the council minutes of the January
12, 1999 regular meeting as submitted. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes; no roll call.
3.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to accept the council minutes of the January 26,
1999 regular meeting as submitted. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes; no roll call.
Privileges of the Floor
4.   Ms. Beth Savchick of 33 Peach Drive, Independence, Kentucky addressed
council requesting sanitary sewers. She asked council to form a committee to
conduct a feasibility (that would include cost estimates) study to extend sewer
lines to the Peach Drive area. She stated many residents in the area would like
public sewer service. There was a brief discussion with Dan Briggs of the city
engineer’s office regarding previous researches into sewering that section of
town. Mr. Briggs will send council previous data on sewering this section of
the city.
Gene Daniels Zone Change Request for the Jos. Knapp Property at 11011 Madison
Pike
5.   Mr. Tim Theissen introduced himself as the attorney for Mr. Gene Daniels.
He reminded council that Mr. Daniels was currently in litigation with the city;
appealing the zone change denial made by the previous council members. Mr.
Theissen urged council to reconsider the matter at the next council meeting by
allowing Mr. Daniels to make a new presentation regarding his zone change
request. Mr. Walker, City Attorney reported that he had been conferring with
Mr. Theissen regarding this matter. He advised council of their options. He
stated that if requested by the city, Judge Summe has the power to remand the
decision back to city council by way of issuing an Agreed Order. Secondly, he
advised that if council chose to reconsider the zone change but decided to
uphold the denial by the previous council members, then the lawsuit would
resume. And thirdly, he counseled that if council chose to vote tonight, with
the majority voting in favor of the change, then Mr. Daniels would dismiss the
lawsuit.
6.   Mrs. Gabbard suggested Mr. Theissen’s possible conflict of interest in
this matter as he holds the position of Chairman of the Kenton County Municipal
Planning & Zoning Commission. Mrs. Gabbard recalled the KCMPZ Commission had
voted in favor of Mr. Daniels zone change request. Mr. Theissen responded the
attorney of record was Marty Butler, his law firm associate, and he was filling
in for Mr. Butler tonight as he was unable to attend. He also explained that
when this matter was brought before the KCMPZ Commission he removed himself
from the proceeding.
7.   Mr. Theissen urged council to place the lawsuit in abeyance for a couple
of months while they take a fresh look the facts to be presented to them at a
future council meeting. Mr. Ellison stated that he felt the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning staff performed well in making their decision to deny Mr. Daniels
request and that KCMPZ Commission ruled in error when approving the zone
change. He felt the lawsuit should proceed. Mrs. Gabbard commented she had seen
no changes that would persuade her to vote in favor of this zone change. A
brief discussion ensued regarding the planned construction of the re-routing of
State Route 17 (Madison Pike) and its effect on Mr. Daniels development plan
for the property.
8.   Once again Mr. Theissen urged council to reconsider by stating Mr. Daniels
was very flexible regarding the exact development plans and would work with
council on what was and was not appropriate structures to put in this proposed
neighborhood commercial plan. He assured council Mr. Daniels would address
council’s concerns.
9.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to reconsider Mr. Daniels zone change request for
the property located at 11011 Madison Pike (corner of Shaw Road and Madison
Pike). Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call vote produced five no votes;
motion defeated 5-0.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
10.   Mr. Scott reported he is compiling a list of interested persons to form a
Strategic Planning Group. He expects to begin meetings in March with this
group. Mayor Kriege requested volunteers from council to participate on this
planning group. Council members Donna Yeager and Eric Dupps stated they were
interested in taking part in this group.
11.   Mr. Scott reported the city engineers are surveying the condition of the
streets for future repairs. He stated he planned to bid out the repair work in
the next few weeks in order to get contracted with the asphalt companies before
they get busy. This also should ensure a competitive bid price. Council members
expressed a desire to expedite this project as some of the roads are in dire
need of repairs.
12.   Mr. Scott also reported that work is continuing on the Municipal Building
feasibility study. He commented that a possible site had been inspected today
and that the feasibility study will also suggest what parameters are needed.
13.   Regarding the plans for a Code Enforcement Board, Mr. Scott reported he
spoke with the Board of Ethics with regard to undertaking code enforcement
responsibilities and noted the group was interested in assuming those duties.
Mr. Scott has asked the city attorney to review the model ordinance and other
related material for a Code Enforcement Board and will keep council updated on
the progress of this matter.
14.   Mr. Scott advised council he has spoken with a representative of AT&T
regarding the proposed cell tower they would like to construct in Independence.
He stated he would be meeting with them before the next council meeting to
discuss possible sites for the placement of the tower.
Police Department – Ed Porter
15.   Chief Porter presented council with a schedule of up-coming Neighborhood
Block Watch meetings. He noted comments on the schedule regarding the Child and
Special Needs Person Photo I.D. Program to be held in March and April.
Dan Briggs – Cardinal Engineering
16.   Mr. Briggs gave a report regarding future road repairs. He stated he
could begin to advertise for bids for the repairs when he is advised of an
amount that will be allotted from the budget to fund the repairs. He stated
that many of the city streets were built after WWII and are approaching fifty
years old and some of these streets will need total reconstruction within five
to seven years. He stated the current revenue tax dollars does not meet the
needs to replace the existing streets and suggested looking at ways to generate
funds or consider assessment projects to make the needed replacements. Mr.
Briggs stated that Holten Drive alone would cost between $460,000 and $600,000
to replace the street. Mr. Briggs also apprised council of the need to resolve
the problem involving the deteriorating condition of Crowe Road.
17.   There was a brief discussion regarding the enforcement of street light
installation in the new subdivisions as mandated by city ordinance. Mr. Briggs
advised council that several subdivision developers have not complied with this
ordinance. Mr. Walker suggested sending a letter to the developers regarding
this and see what kind of response the city receives. Mr. Scott will draft a
letter to the developers.
City Clerk Report
18.   Pat Taney, City Clerk reported the office has begun the process of
codification of ordinances for the last few years. The process will take a few
months and this cost will be budgeted in the 1999/00 fiscal year.
19.   Mrs. Taney also reported she has contacted this area’s Regional
Administrator at the Department for Libraries and Archives regarding the
disposal and retention of city documents. She stated funds will need to be
budgeted for 1999/00 for the permanent storage of city records and anticipates
this project to be completed by the end of summer.
Appointment of Council Committees
20.   Council members agreed to the following committee appointments:
Public Safety – Eric Dupps, Barbara Gabbard, Greg Steffen
Personnel & Administration – Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Donna Yeager
Public Works – Steve Feldhaus, Barbara Gabbard, Donna Yeager
Planning & Zoning – Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Greg Steffen
Finance & Budget – Steve Feldhaus, Barbara Gabbard, Donna Yeager
21.   There was a brief discussion in regard to forming a council committee
called “Downtown Revitalization Committee.” The consensus was that it would not
be an official council committee but some of the council members (Mrs. Yeager &
Mrs. Gabbard) would represent city council on that committee which is comprised
mostly of interested residents.
New Business
22.   There was a brief discussion exploring acquisition of the land at the
corner of Madison Pike and Court Street, which is directly across from the
Courthouse. Mrs. Gabbard stated the owners are interested in selling the
property. Council discussed possible options for this land that included a
small recreational park, a municipal parking lot or a “park and ride” area for
patrons of public bus service.
1998/99 Budget Amendment
23.   Mr. Scott reminded council of his suggestion at the last meeting to adopt
a departmental budget instead of the current line item budget. He stated that a
departmental budget would give the department heads more flexibility in
managing the funds for their office. With that in mind, he instructed the
Finance Director to combine the line items and prepare an amendment to the
current budget to form a departmental budget, which he presented to council.
Mr. Scott stated he would continue to write next year’s budget by line item but
that it would be adopted as a departmental budget.
24.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to read Ordinance 1999-O-01 amending the 1998/
99 budget from a line item to departmental budget. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes. The city attorney read the
ordinance.
Mayor’s Report – Tom Kriege
25.   Mayor Kriege reported he had received a letter from the State Highway
Department regarding a traffic study they conducted at Madison Pike (Route 17)
and Declaration Drive in from of the new Independence Towne Center. Mayor
Kriege advised that the traffic study was requested by former Mayor Kudera
because of the increased traffic in that area due to recent development. He
stated the State Highway Department has declined a traffic signal at that
intersection, as the traffic count numbers did not justify a light at this
time. Mr. Ellison suggested the city conduct its own traffic study and
requested the Police Chief to position the Smart Radar unit in the area for a
few days.
Adjournment
26.   At 8:39 p.m. Mrs. Yeager made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned
___________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
February 23, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison and
Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance were the City
Administrator, Gary Scott and the City Attorney, Lawson Walker. Council members
Barbara Gabbard was absent due to family illness and Eric Dupps was absent due
to a conflict with his work schedule.
Approval of Council Meeting Minutes
2.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to accept the minutes of the February 9, 1999
council meeting as amended. Motion seconded by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried with
three ayes and one abstain (3-1).
Donation to Independence Lions Club Annual Easter Egg Hunt
3.   A letter from Ms. Leann Pegg, Chairman of the Independence Lions Easter
Egg Hunt, was presented to council requesting a donation to help defray the
costs associated with this yearly event. The egg hunt will be held on the
grounds of the Kenton Elementary School on March 28, 1999 at 4:00 p.m. The
city’s donation helps purchase prizes, plastic eggs, candy and camera film for
pictures with the Easter Bunny.
4.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to donate $600 to the Independence Lions Club to
be used for the annual Easter Egg Hunt. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll
call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Mr. Ernest C. Friedrich, 1 Faye Drive, Taylor Mill, Kentucky addressed
council regarding a proposed zone change request for the ten acres of property
located at the corner of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road. He presented council
with a map that outlined his plans for the development of the property. He
stated the development would be constructed in two phases. Mr. Friedrich
explained the first phase would include a food mart with gasoline pumps and the
second phase of construction would allow for a drug store or some type of
clothing store or dry cleaners. He commented that the intersection needed
clearing as the visibility for vehicles was very bad and he felt that by
clearing the land and developing it that it would greatly improve the safety of
the intersection. Council members expressed concern that a development at the
corner would increase the congestion not alleviate it. There was discussion
regarding the installation of a traffic light, but comments were made on how
difficult it is to get support from the state highway department to install a
light on a state maintained road. Also some council members commented that
another food store and drug store was not necessary in that area, as there is
an IGA and Cherokee Drug Store on the adjacent corner. Mr. Friedrich thanked
council for hearing his presentation and asked them to consider his proposal
for a zone change.
1998/99 Budget Amendment – Ordinance No. 1999-O-01
6.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
amendment to budget Ordinance No. 1998-O-09. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion.
Motion carried with all ayes; no roll call (4-0). City Attorney, Lawson Walker
read the proposed ordinance.
7.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance 1999-O-01 as read. Mrs.
Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four ayes and no nays.
Motion passed 4-0.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary Scott
8.   Presently AT&T have been given approval from the Planning Commission to
erect a cellular tower on Independence Cemetery property. Council has objected
to this plan and has asked AT&T to reconsider and find another site, possibly
at the Shaw Park. Mr. Scott reported that he would be meeting a representative
from AT&T to inspect possible alternative sites for the construction of the
tower. Mr. Walker interjected that because of the encounter with city
disapproval this matter has now returned before the Public Services Commission
and action is pending. He advised council that if the Public Services
Commission decides to go ahead with the cemetery location, it would go there,
short of the city filing a lawsuit. He also informed council there is very
little case law on this type of judgement and that a federal statute would
supercede a state law. He commented there was plenty of reason to challenge
this decision and conveyed that AT&T representatives indicated a preference for
the cemetery location over the Shaw Park site. The consensus was to discuss
this possible lawsuit in more detail in executive session.
9.   Mr. Scott updated council regarding the formation of a Strategic Planning
Committee. He advised several names have been submitted to serve on the
committee and that he will notify the interested persons the first of March. He
commented that if the group is too large he will divide into smaller groups and
the Northern Ky. Area Development District may provide a facilitator.
10.   Mr. Scott advised council the budget process has begun for the 1999/2000
fiscal year. He stated that after the department heads submit their budget
numbers he will review with Mayor Kriege and then it will be presented to the
Budget & Finance Committee for review and recommendation before being presented
to council for adoption around May or June.
11.   As of today, twenty-two of the twenty-six employee benefit surveys were
completed and returned. The Northern Ky. Area Development District will compile
the results of the survey and make a report to council.
12.   Mr. Scott stated the Public Works Committee met and discussed ways of
providing the needed services to the community and will incorporate this into
the budget process.
Police Department – Ed Porter
13.   Chief Porter submitted a Block Watch meeting schedule to council as
requested. He also directed council to contact Sergeant Ed Bailey regarding any
community public relations type of functions where a police officer is desired.
He stated Sgt. Bailey would take an active interest and make the necessary
arrangements for this type of community involvement.
14.   Chief Porter also informed council his department is in the process of
conducting a traffic count near the Independence Towne Center. Council
requested the city conduct its own count to submit to the State Highway
Department as the state has denied installing a traffic light on Madison Pike
near the shopping center. Chief Porter commented the state did not supply the
city with their traffic count numbers, therefore he will not be able to make a
comparison.
Building Inspector – Alan Bowling
15.   Mr. Bowling reported he had received a request for information on the
procedures for placing cell equipment on an existing tower across from Nie’s
Drug store on Madison Pike. He advised him to submit a plan and then he would
advise him on the process involved.
16.   Mr. Bowling also addressed council regarding a property owner on
Turkeyfoot Road who paid two sewer tap-in fees. One to the Sanitation District
and one to the City. This occurred several months ago when he constructed a
multi-dwelling building. The property owner has sent the city a written request
asking the city to refund the tap-in fees ($2,100.00) paid to the city. After a
short discussion council requested Mr. Bowling to supply council with a map
showing the placement of the sewer lines.
17.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to table the decision to refund the tap-in fee
of $2,100.00 until the next meeting. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes.
18.   There was a brief discussion wherein Mr. Ellison asked who was
responsible for setting building bonds. He suggested the city adopt an
ordinance wherein they would have the sole authority in setting the bond
amounts as the city has been bound in the past by building bonds that were
inadequate. Mr. Walker advised that the authority of the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning & Zoning Commission set all subdivision regulation bonds and that the
city had the authority for bonds relating to zoning matters.
19.   Mr. Ellison also asked Mr. Bowling to find out what builder left five
propane cylinders on a street in the Battleridge Subdivision. He felt this was
a safety violation. Mr. Bowling promised to investigate the matter.
20.   Mr. Feldhaus also asked Mr. Bowling to make inquiry as to when the
sidewalks will be installed along Shaw Road and Madison Pike in the
Independence Towne Center area.
Zoning Administrator – Kevin Barbian
21.   The city’s new Zoning Administrator, Kevin Barbian advised council that
he began work last week and that he is still getting oriented. Mr. Bowling has
been helpful familiarizing him with the city. Mr. Barbian stated he would
submit a zoning report to council next month.
City Engineer – Dave Whitacre
22.   Mr. Whitacre reported the bids for the first phase of street repairs for
concrete work are due March 8, 1999. He also stated the specs for the bids for
the blacktop repairs would be ready in two weeks. He explained that April and
May are too wet to do the blacktop repairs and the weather would need to be
warmer in order for the blacktop to adhere.
23.   Mr. Whitacre informed council his office is working on the small drainage
issues and compiling a long-range street maintenance construction schedule.
NEW BUSINESS
Code Enforcement Board
24.   Mr. Scott addressed council regarding the formation of a Code Enforcement
Board. He spoke with the Board of Ethics about also serving on the enforcement
board. One member of the Ethics Board for personal reasons did not want to
serve on the enforcement board but wanted to remain on the Board of Ethics. A
discussion ensued regarding the options available and what course to take. If
council chose to go from a five-member to four-member board Mr. Walker advised
the current ethics ordinance would have to be amended. Also Mr. Walker stated
another ordinance would need to be adopted in order to have a duel board. Mr.
Scott stated he felt there should be two separate boards or one board to serve
both needs. The consensus of council was that it would simplify matters to have
a duel board and directed Mr. Scott to speak to the Ethics Board member that is
unable to serve on a duel board and look for a replacement for that position.
25.   Mr. Ellison stated he felt the Code Enforcement Board and the Ethics
Board members should be compensated for the meetings they attend, as the city’s
Board of Adjustments members receive a $30/meeting stipend. He felt this was
only fair. There was a brief discussion relating to this and council decided to
compensate each member $30 for every board meeting they attend. Mr. Walker will
draft a Code Enforcement Board ordinance to be presented at the next meeting.
Proposal to Change Day and Number of Monthly Council Meetings
26.   Mr. Feldhaus suggested changing from two regular meetings per month to
one. He stated that with Mayor Kriege’s establishment of active council
committees that a lot of the city matters could be deliberated in committee
before coming before council if action is necessary. He also commented that
special meetings could be called if important matters needed to be acted on
before the next regular scheduled meeting. In addition, he felt that with
Kenton County Fiscal Court moving all its regular meetings to the Independence
courthouse they may want to schedule all their meetings on Tuesday evenings;
not just the first and third Tuesday of each month. Mr. Feldhaus proposed
meeting on the first Monday of each month. There was a brief discussion
regarding Mr. Feldhaus’ proposal with the attending council members in
agreement. Mr. Walker will draft an ordinance to be presented at the next
council meeting.
Mayor Kriege’s Report
27.   Mayor Kriege reminded residents to complete the citizen survey that was
inserted in the newsletter and return to the city office by March 8, 1999. He
stated the results of the survey would help city officials in planning current
and future needs for the community.
AT&T Cellular Tower at the Independence Cemetery
28.   Mr. Tom Honebrink, General Manager of the Independence Cemetery spoke to
council regarding the proposed cellular tower on the cemetery grounds. He
attended tonight’s meeting as he thought there would be residents that opposed
the tower also in attendance and wanted to reassure city officials and
residents, especially the residents in the nearby Hartland Subdivision that the
tower would be 575 feet from the nearest neighbor in that subdivision. He
stated that while the cemetery board was interested in the opportunity to
generate revenue from the leasing of the property to AT&T, they wanted to
remain a good neighbor and did not want everyone to think the cemetery board
was trying to pull something over on the city. He stressed they are willing to
cooperate with the city in this matter. He stated they would not need the area
of the cemetery where the cell tower is proposed for at least one hundred years
and by then the tower will be defunct. Mr. Ellison advised the cell towers are
designed to break into two and most damage would be done to the cellular
equipment, a panel building that immediately surrounds the base of the tower.
He stated that council too is willing to be a good neighbor but feels the
cemetery board should pursue other options.
Executive Session
29.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to enter into executive session to deliberate
pending litigation and possible property acquisition according to KRS 61.810(b
& c). Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
Return to Regular Session
30.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to end the executive session and return to the
regular session of the meeting. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Motion carried
with all ayes.
Adjournment
31.   At 9:10 p.m. Mr. Steffen made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr.
Ellison. Motion carried. Meeting adjourned.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 9, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Steve Feldhaus, Barbara Gabbard, Greg
Steffen, and Donna Yeager answered roll call. Also in attendance were City
Administrator, Gary Scott and City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the minutes of the meeting held on
February 23, 1999. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Mr. Ellison requested two
amendments be made. Motion carried with all ayes.
PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
3.   Mayor Kriege recognized the boy scouts in the audience from Troop No. 8 of
the Independence Christian Church. He welcomed the scouts and commended them on
observing tonight’s meeting in order to earn their communications badge.
4.   Mr. Bob Buten of the Apple Valley Development Company addressed council
requesting the city to take over the ownership and maintenance of Apple Valley
Drive. Mr. Buten explained that Apple Valley Drive (off of short Richardson
Road in the Beechgrove area) was constructed to access the apartments built
there during the late 1980’s and early 1990’s. Mayor Kriege informed Mr. Buten
this request should be reviewed and considered by the council’s Planning &
Zoning Committee and then the committee will bring their recommendation before
the council for a decision. The committee set a meeting for March 15, 1999 at
4:00 p.m.
5.   Mr. Philip Turner from the Farmer’s National Bank addressed council
regarding a proposal he submitted to service the city’s banking needs. He
stated he was informed that council would be deciding at tonight’s meeting
which bank would service the city’s financial accounts from the proposals
received. Mr. Scott informed council that he and Amy Guenther, the city’s
financial director, had talked to several banks regarding financial account
services – fee structure, interest rates, types of services, etc. Mr. Scott
reported no decision had been made as to which bank would provide those
services. There was a brief discussion regarding the bidding process. Mr.
Walker stated the city was just requesting proposals for professional services;
not operating under the bid law. He advised the city could request sealed bids
for banking services. Mr. Turner questioned the validity of a sealed bid
process now since the city solicited his bank for services and he has already
provided the information as has other banks. Old Business
6.   Mr. Ellison commented that at the last meeting council had tabled a
decision on refunding a sewer tap-in fee to a property owner in the Turkeyfoot
Road area. This property owner had paid two tap-in fees – one to the city and
one to the Sanitation District. Mr. Ellison stated that he has recently learned
the city had already refunded the tap-in fee. He suggested since the matter has
been settled that council let the motion die on the table. There was no
objection by the other council members.
City Administrator – Gary Scott
7.   Mr. Scott stated they would discuss the update on the AT&T cellular tower
matter in executive session.
8.   Mr. Scott reported he would have an appraisal done on the fire station
which council has expressed interest in acquiring. He stated the appraisal
results should be available in three or four weeks.
9.   Mr. Scott stated the bids for the concrete road repairs have been received
and Mr. Briggs from the city engineer’s office will give a report later in the
meeting.
10.   Regarding the 1999/2000-budget proposal, Mr. Scott stated the line item
figures are being put in place and he will submit the preliminary budget to the
mayor. As the budget needs to be published by June 30, 1999, he is proceeding
with a timetable that would permit a first reading of the budget ordinance by
the end of April.
11.   With the budget in mind, Mr. Feldhaus reported the Public Works Committee
had met to discuss a storm drain problem near the Beechgrove Clubhouse. The
committee has requested the Beechgrove Homeowner’s Association obtain two
permanent and one temporary easements for the city to work on the drain. Also
he noted the concrete road repairs would begin in June and take at least one
month to complete which would take the city into the next fiscal year. He
stated this would allow the city to accomplish both repair jobs. There was a
brief discussion regarding the bid process, as Mr. Feldhaus suggested obtaining
bids now for the asphalt street repairs even though the funds for this project
would come from next year’s budget.
Police Department – Ed Porter
12.   Chief Porter reminded council the next Block Watch meeting would take
place at the Beechgrove Clubhouse on April 6, 1999. He showed a sample block
watch street sign to council and stated the signs could be individualized by
neighborhood for an extra six dollars per sign. Council decided to purchase the
individualized signs as they felt this would give pride and ownership to their
section of the community. Chief Porter also distributed a report of the traffic
study his department conducted at the main entrance to the Independence Towne
Center.
Cardinal Engineering – Dan Briggs
13.   Mr. Briggs advised council the bids had been received for the concrete
street repairs. He stated the best and lowest bid was received from Buchanan
Construction Company in the amount of $109,250.00. Mr. Briggs stated he is
familiar with this company’s work and recommended the city contract with
Buchanan. He also reported the asphalt road repairs bid will be advertised
soon.
14.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to award the bid contract for the concrete
street repairs to Buchanan Construction Company for $109,250.00. Mr. Dupps
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
Simon Kenton Project Prom Donation
15.   Simon Kenton High School has made their annual request for a donation to
help support the Project Prom event. Chief Porter stated this after-prom
entertainment is designed to discourage drinking and driving and is a safety
issue.
16.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to donate $500.00 to the Simon Kenton High
Project Prom; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Roll call was answered with all ayes.
Motion carried.
Code Enforcement Board Discussion
17.   Mr. Walker submitted the proposed code enforcement ordinance to council
for review. He advised council this ordinance was drafted from the state’s
model ordinance.
18.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed Code
Enforcement Ordinance No. 1999-O-02. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance to Change the Council Meeting Days
19.   A discussion ensued regarding the effective date of the new meeting days.
Mr. Walker suggested the first Monday in May (5-3-99) as that would allow the
time needed to meet legal requirements. Council also discussed the September
meeting would always fall on a legal holiday and suggested meeting the second
Monday due to Labor Day. Any other council meetings that would fall on a first
Monday could be cancelled if a holiday fell on the same day and rescheduled as
a special meeting.
20.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance changing the council meeting days. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion.
Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed Ordinance No. 1999-
O-03.
City Attorney – H. Lawson Walker
21.   Mr. Walker advised council he has a personal conflict for the next
regularly scheduled council meeting and will send an associate from his firm to
take his place.
New Business
22.   Mr. Ellison referred to a letter council members received from a resident
in the mobile home park off Cody Road. The resident is requesting the city
install a swimming pool for the residents who live there. He stated the city
should respond to her request.
Mayor’s Report
23.   Mayor Kriege stated the Strategic Planning Committee would have its first
meeting on March 16, 1999 at the Beechgrove Clubhouse at 7:00 p.m. He also
reminded council that Judge-Executive Murgatroyd would be holding a town
meeting in Independence at 10:00 a.m. on Saturday, March 13, 1999 and
encouraged their attendance.
Executive Session
24.   At 8:00 p.m. Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to go into an executive session
to discuss litigation matters according to KRS 61.810 (c). Mr. Steffen seconded
the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
25.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
26.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 8:35 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MARCH 23, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Steve Feldhaus, Barbara
Gabbard, and Greg Steffen answered roll call. Council member Donna Yeager was
in the hospital and not able to attend. Also in attendance was City
Administrator, Gary Scott and City Attorney, Bill Gullett (sitting in for H.
Lawson Walker).
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the March 9,
1999 meeting. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Mr. Steffen requested an amendment
to paragraph nineteen. Motion amended and carried with all ayes.
Privileges of the Floor
3.   Mr. Daniel Schuh informed council that he was considering development of
property located on Taylor Mill Road south of Rickey Lane that is currently
zoned R-1C. The development plan would require a change to an R-1D zone. Mr.
Schuh stated he did not want to pursue a zone change if the council’s overall
position was to reject a change in that area. He stated he did not want to go
through the time and expense of requesting a zone change that the majority of
council was not in favor or making. Mr. Feldhaus informed Mr. Schuh that this
matter would need to go before the city’s Planning & Zoning Committee for
consideration. Mr. Feldhaus also explained the committee would make
recommendation to council and if council decided to give initial approval of
the zone change the city would make application for him to the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission. The Planning & Zoning Committee decided to
schedule a meeting on Monday, March 29, 1999 at 4:15 p.m. at the city building
to discuss this matter with Mr. Schuh.
Ordinance 1999-O-02 – Code Enforcement Board
4.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of proposed Ordinance
1999-O-02 to establish a city Code Enforcement Board. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Gullett read the proposed ordinance.
5.   A brief discussion centered on Section 4, Paragraph F, wherein Mr.
Feldhaus suggested amending that clause to include “subject to approval of the
legislative body” so that removal of a board member will be consistent with the
appointment to fill a board member vacancy as stated in Paragraph E. Mrs.
Gabbard commented the addition should only be included if it was legal.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to amend Section 4, Paragraph F of the proposed
Code Enforcement Board ordinance. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion carried
with all ayes.
7.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the second reading to adopt Ordinance
No. 1999-O-02 establishing a Code Enforcement Board. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered with one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen and four
yes votes with Mrs. Gabbard clarifying that she voted in favor with the
stipulation that it has to be legally correct. Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
Ordinance 1999-O-03 – Setting the Date for Regular Monthly Council Meetings
8.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to change the date for the regular monthly council meetings. Mr.
Steffen seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Gullett read the
proposed ordinance.
9.   Mr. Steffen advised council that other possible holidays that may conflict
with the new meeting day are Independence Day, New Years Day Labor Day and
Confederate Memorial Day. It was noted the ordinance provides that when a
holiday falls on a regularly scheduled meeting day then the meeting will be
held on the second Monday of that month.
10.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the second reading of Ordinance
1999-O-03 for adoption. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Motion carried with a
5-0 roll call vote in favor.
City Administrator Report – Gary Scott
11.   Mr. Scott updated council regarding the AT&T cell tower matter by
reporting he has met with a representative from AT&T, the Recreation Committee
and Planning & Zoning Committee members to discuss placing the cell tower in
the Shaw Park. Mr. Ellison commented that AT&T needs to be informed that city
ordinance requires utility lines be installed underground.
12.   Regarding the council’s interest in the Fire District’s building located
on Madison Pike, Mr. Scott stated he is in the process of obtaining an
appraisal for the building.
13.   Mr. Scott stated the asphalt road repairs are out to bid with three
contractors picking up the bid specs. The bid opening will be March 29, 1999
14.   Mr. Scott advised council the Finance & Budget Committee would postpone
their next meeting until Mrs. Yeager is able to attend.
Police Department – Ed Porter
15.   Chief Porter reported the police department has scheduled a Block Watch
Program at Beechgrove on April 6, 1999 at 7:00 p.m. He also stated they would
conduct the Child and Special Needs Identification Program on April 14, 1999 at
3:00 p.m. at the Wildwood Place Apartments and on May 13, 1999 at 3:00 p.m. at
the Kenton County Library.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
16.   Mr. Whitacre reported the concrete road repairs agreement would be ready
for signatures in the next few days. He stated there was no hurry to begin the
concrete work until the winter weather ends. His office is also working on a
street repair list, but this also will not be completed until the warmer
weather continues otherwise the list would need revisions
City Attorney – Bill Gullett (sitting in for Lawson Walker)
17.   Mr. Gullett advised negotiation talks are proceeding with AT&T regarding
a location for the cellular tower they want to erect in the city. He also
reported the lawsuit of Daniels vs. the City has been turned over to the city’s
general liability insurance company and they will be handling the legal
representation of this case.
COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
Public Safety
18.   Council Member, Mr. Dupps stated this committee had nothing to report
except that they are working on short and long term goals and a mission
statement. They will be scheduling a meeting soon.
Budget & Finance
19.   Council Member, Mr. Feldhaus reported they have met and reviewed
preliminary figures for the next fiscal year’s budget. Tomorrow’s meeting is
cancelled due to Mrs. Yeager being unable to attend.
Personnel & Administration
20.   Council Member, Mr. Ellison stated this committee has not had a meeting
yet due to Mrs. Yeager being hospitalized. As soon as she is feeling better
they will schedule a meeting.
Public Works
21.   Council Member, Mr. Feldhaus stated this committee is discussing the
establishment of a public works department and reviewing the funds needed to
support this endeavor. He stated the committee recommends beginning the process
of forming this department, as there is money in the city’s reserve funds to
support it. He said the first year’s initial start up cost will be about
$180,000 with only $70,00 recurring costs the following year. The first year
costs would include purchase of some equipment. He stated the committee felt
there was plenty of work to keep two people busy. Mayor Kriege commented there
would be a process to create the public works positions and be added to the
personnel policy by establishing job descriptions. These positions would need
to be added by ordinance. Mr. Scott stated he would like to advertise for the
positions. The city attorney was asked to prepare the necessary ordinances to
add these job descriptions and prepare a budget amendment.
Planning & Zoning
22.   Council Member, Jim Ellison stated the committee met with Mr. Bob Zapp
who would like to re-zone a section at the corner of Pelly Road and Route 17 to
NC (neighborhood commercial). Mr. Ellison stated the committee requested Mr.
Zapp submit a proposed site plan for the committee to review before they could
make a recommendation to council. Mr. Feldhaus suggested the committee ask Mr.
Zapp to participate in the cost of a traffic light at that intersection since
development there would aggravate an already congested area.
23.   Mr. Ellison also reported the committee has met with Mr. Buten who is
requesting the city adopt Apple Valley Drive. This street was built as a
private drive to access the apartments Mr. Buten built. Mr. Scott and Mr.
Briggs will do a walk through and report to the committee with their
recommendations.
NEW BUSINESS
24.   There was a brief discussion regarding the Behringer-Crawford Museum’s
request for a financial donation. Mr. Ellison commented that in exchange for a
donation he would like to see the museum provide free or discounted field trip
admissions to the schools located in Independence. Mr. Scott will contact the
executive director of the museum to discuss this. Mr. Steffen stated he would
like Whites Tower Elementary to be included in that arrangement because many
Independence children attend that school.
25.   Kenton Elementary School has made a request for donations to be used at a
school sponsored spring fundraiser. Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to donate up to
$200 in apparel (city sweatshirts) to Kenton Elementary. Mr. Ellison seconded
the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
26.   Mr. Ellison requested the city repair the chain link fencing at Staggs
Park which was damaged in December when an auto accident occurred at the
intersection. He suggested the city make the needed repairs to be reimbursed
later by the responsible person’s insurance company.
Mayor Kriege’s Report
27.   Mayor Kriege reported the “Independence Tomorrow” strategic planning
committee is underway and currently working on long and short-term goals and
developing a mission statement. The committee meets on the second and fourth
Monday of each month.
28.   The Mayor stated he recently visited the City of Bardstown, Ky. and
learned of their sign ordinance and would like council to consider adopting a
similar ordinance.
Re-appointment of Tom Jump to the Board of Adjustments
29.   Mayor Kriege stated it had come to his attention that the term of Board
of Adjustment member, Tom Jump expired on March 14, 1999. He recommended re-
appointing Mr. Jump for another four-year term.
30.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to re-appoint Tom Jump to the Board of
Adjustments; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll call was answered with all ayes.
Motion carried.
Closing Remarks
31.   Mr. Feldhaus commented the new Code Enforcement Board will need two
volunteers to act as alternates and encouraged council members to submit names
of interested persons.
Adjournment
32.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 7:53 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 13, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council members Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard, Greg
Steffen, and Donna Yeager answered roll call. Also in attendance were the City
Administrator, Gary Scott, and the City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   A motion was made by Mr. Steffen and seconded by Mr. Ellison to accept the
council minutes of the March 23, 1999 meeting as amended. No roll call; motion
carried with all ayes.
Privileges of the Floor
3.   Brenda Chasteen of 1281 Victory Lane in the Independence Pointe
Subdivision addressed council regarding a hazardous drainage problem in her
yard. She responded to the drainage survey in the city newsletter but advised
the hole continues to increase in size and is requesting assistance from the
city. Mr. Chasteen stated her insurance company advised this drainage hole is a
safety hazard. Since the house is only four years old, Mr. Ellison suggested
looking at the original subdivision plans as this sounds like it could possibly
be the responsibility of the developer or builder. The city attorney, Mr.
Walker, advised they might need to be able to prove the builder was negligent
in order to get him to repair the problem.
4.   Jean Zint of 452 Ridgeview Drive requested council to fill in the storm
sewer ditch in front of her home in order to level out the lot. She stated she
is disabled and is unable to mow in that area as it is too steep. Mr. Briggs of
Cardinal Engineering advised council that he has inspected this site and sees
no reason to install another drain pipe as this is a standard ditch and no
deeper than usual. He recommended the existing pipe be cleaned so there is no
restriction of storm water flow. He also commented that if this ditch were
filled in it would become a “maintenance nightmare” for the city and would also
be setting precedence for future similar requests.
OLD BUSINESS
Code Enforcement Board Ordinance – Second Reading
5.   The city attorney reminded council that at the last meeting a second
reading was made on the proposed ordinance to establish a code enforcement
board but because there were changes made to a section of the ordinance then it
becomes a first reading again. Mr. Walker advised that a legislative body does
not have the power to approve the removal of a person from the board but stated
council could pass the ordinance with that stipulation. He doesn’t feel it is
necessary, as the mayor would need to provide a reason for removing one from
the board. Mr. Walker stated that each version of the ordinance has had a first
reading and council could have a second reading tonight on either version.
6.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a second reading on the March 9, 1999
(first reading) version on establishing a code enforcement board. Mrs. Yeager
seconded motion. Motion carried with four ayes and one nay vote cast by Mr.
Steffen. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
7.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to adopt Ordinance 1999-O-02 establishing a Code
Enforcement Board. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Mr. Steffen initiated a
discussion wherein he stated that after much consideration he feels
apprehensive having a dual board perform duties of both the Ethics and Code
enforcement. He stated he feels it would be more beneficial to appoint people
to the code enforcement board that have a more aggressive temperament to
actively pursue these types of matters. Mrs. Gabbard commented she feels the
code enforcement board is badly needed but is also having second thoughts on
merging the two boards. Mr. Scott remarked how difficult it can be finding
volunteers to hold positions on city boards and committees and by having a dual
board it allowed the city to utilize people already interested and willing to
serve the city in this capacity. He suggested the ordinance could be amended in
the future if the dual board did not work out. Mayor Kriege commented he does
not anticipate a problem combining the two boards nor does he see a conflict.
Mr. Scott also advised the zoning administrator would still be enforcing the
violations but the board would hear peoples concerns if they want to contest
the violation. Roll call vote was answered with three yes votes and two no
votes cast by Mr. Steffen and Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried.
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
8.   Mr. Scott reported an employee pay plan is currently being reviewed by the
Budget & Finance Committee and he hopes to have it be adopted as part of the
next fiscal year’s budget.
9.   Mr. Scott announced the road repairs would begin when the warmer weather
arrives probably around mid-May. He stated Mr. Briggs would be presenting a
report later in the meeting.
10.   Mr. Scott also reported the 1999/2000 budget is currently under review
with the Budget & Finance Committee and should be approved and a recommendation
made to council at the next regular meeting. Mr. Scott stated he would like to
have the budget adopted by the May 3rd meeting.
11.   Mr. Scott noted the “Independence Tomorrow” strategic planning committee
is proceeding well. The committee has four sub-committees, which include Public
Safety, Human Services, Public Works/Administration, and Community Development.
The committee hopes to present their goals by July.
Police Department – Ed Porter
12.   Chief Porter reported Boy Scout Troop Number 8 from the Independence
Christian Church assisted in erecting the Neighborhood Block Watch Program
signs in an effort to earn their public service merit badge. He also announced
the dates of the next Identification Program for children and special persons.
13.   Chief Porter announced the onsite inspection for accreditation was last
Thursday and recommendation for approval will be made at the Police Chief’s
meeting tomorrow.
Cardinal Engineering – Dan Briggs
14.   Mr. Briggs informed council three contractors submitted asphalt road
repair bids: Quast Paving, Michels, and Queen City Blacktop. Quast Paving made
the low bid. Mr. Briggs recommended awarding the bid to Quast Paving as the
lowest and best bid in the amount of $164,445.00.
15.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to accept the bid for asphalt road repairs from
Quast Paving in the amount of $164.445.00. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Mr.
Dupps asked if there was a warranty period. Mr. Briggs stated the warranty
begins twelve months after acceptance of the completed job. Roll was answered
with all ayes. Motion carried 5-0.
16.   Mr. Briggs reported that Cardinal Engineering has inspected Apple Valley
Drive as directed by the Planning & Zoning Committee. He stated they do not
feel the street meets the standards required for city acceptance of
maintenance. Mayor Kriege suggested his report including recommendations be
submitted to the Planning & Zoning Committee for their review.
17.   Mr. Briggs stated he has inspected several storm sewer grates in the city
and commented he would like to see Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning’s
regulations regarding these grates revised. He stated he was told by NKAPZ that
they are presently studying this matter. Mr. Ellison advised a NKAPZ committee
was looking into the regulation of storm sewer grates. Mayor Kriege suggested
addressing a letter to Mr. Bowdy of NKAPZ and Tim Theissen of the Planning
Commission voicing the city’s concern.
18.   Mr. Briggs also spoke of a drainage problem at 5106 Wooddale Drive. A
storm drain was stopped up and the problem stems from the fact that the pipe
was extended by a homebuilder. He stated he researched courthouse records and
found that no recorded easement exists for the area where repairs are needed.
He advised that if the city decides to make repairs an easement would need to
be obtained. Mr. Scott advised this matter would be addressed at a Public Works
Committee meeting.
19.   Mr. Briggs reported that Owen Electric would not be applying for the
tariff sheet as he was previously told. He reported this will present a unique
problem for the Forest Run Subdivision as one street will be serviced by both
Owen Electric and U.L.H.& P. with Owen Electric installing the yellow lights
and U.L.H.& P. installing the white lights. The current city ordinance
regarding the street lights requires the white lights but since Owen Electric
only provides the orange lights perhaps the city will review that ordinance
with the possibility of amending it to include the orange lights when that is
all that is available. Mr. Scott stated the Public Works Committee would take
this under advisement and make a recommendation to council at a later date.
20.   Lastly, Mr. Briggs submitted a Comprehensive 1999-2004 Street Report to
council for review. He stated the report is based on a $400,000 road repair
budget for each year of the five-year plan. He suggested updating the report
within two-three years.
21.   A brief discussion ensued regarding subdivision regulations for handicap
sidewalks. It was noted that Kenton County Municipal Planning and Zoning
currently does not require this. Mr. Walker suggested looking at ADA
requirements and compliance with federal regulations.
City Attorney – H. Lawson Walker
22.   Mr. Walker advised council the new Personnel Policy was adopted by
Resolution, which is official, but the old policy needs to be repealed by
ordinance. Mayor Kriege stated this was a housekeeping issue and an ordinance
will be submitted to council at the next meeting to repeal the old personnel
policy ordinance. Mr. Scott also commented that the pay scale was part of the
old personnel policy and a new pay scale is being drafted.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Public Safety
23.   Council Member, Mr. Dupps reported the committee has met two weeks ago.
They are currently reviewing the mission statement.
Finance & Budget
24.   Mrs. Yeager stated the committee would be meeting tomorrow if Mr.
Feldhaus were available. They are currently reviewing the 1999/2000 budget in
order to make a recommendation to council.
Personnel & Administration
25.   Mrs. Yeager stated that while the whole committee has not met,
individually they have given Mr. Scott recommendations for changes. They set a
meeting date for Thursday, April 22, 1999 at 4:00 p.m. at the city
administration building.
Public Works
26.   This committee has made the recommendation to hire two public works
employees pending the budget changes. The jobs were advertised in the Sunday
Enquirer on April 11.
Planning & Zoning
27.   Mr. Ellison reported the committee has met with Mr. Bob Zapp, co-owner of
the property located at the corner of Madison Pike and Pelly Road, to review
his plans for development of that property.
28.   He stated the committee is also reviewing the preliminary plans for a new
subdivision called Millhouse Crossing. This development is located on the west
side of Taylor Mill Road north of Lakefield Drive and will interconnect
Lakefield Subdivision. They discussed requiring the sidewalks be ADA
accessible.
29.   Mr. Ellison reported that Mrs. Yeager had been working with OKI regarding
plans to install a park and ride on city property on Madison Pike where the old
city/police building was located. OKI estimates it would cost $14,000 to
develop and would require the city to enter into a long term lease. Mr. Ellison
felt it was not in the city’s best interest to enter into a long-term contract
and suggested working with county officials and representatives from TANK to
make this park and ride a reality. Discussion centered on asking TANK to
furnish a bus shelter and making a change order to the asphalt road repairs
contract to include the re-surfacing of the parking lot. Mr. Briggs stated he
would request a set price from Quast Paving to do the work.
Mayor’s Report – Tom Kriege
30.   Mayor Kriege distributed a sample ordinance to council regarding sign
regulations. He asked them to review it for possible adoption at a later date.
Executive Session
31.   At 8:45 p.m. Mr. Dupps made a motion to go into executive session per KRS
61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing pending litigation. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
32.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
33.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Steffen. Motion
carried, meeting adjourned at 9:40 p.m.
__________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 27, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
were Gary Scott, City Administrator and H. Lawson Walker, City Attorney.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   After amendments were made to the council meeting minutes of April 13,
1999, Mr. Ellison made a motion to adopt the minutes; seconded by Mr. Dupps.
Motion carried 5-1 with Mr. Feldhaus abstaining because he did not attend that
meeting.
Presentation of the Citizen Survey Results by Dr. Michael Thomson of N.K.U.
3.   Michael Thomson, Ph.D. with the Department of Public Administration
presented the results of the recent citizen survey, which had been inserted in
the February city newsletter. He stated 502 surveys out of the 4110 mailed were
returned. This is a 12% return rate that is a little less than other cities
where the survey has been conducted. But he added those cities have a higher
geographic density. He also advised there is roughly a 5% error rate. He stated
this was a good baseline survey and advised conducting another survey between
3-5 years from now. Some facts of the representation of households in the
survey include: 43% are over 50 years of age, 66% have college experience, 63%
have an income over $45,000, 60% have children and 78% voted in the last city
election.
4.   Dr. Thomson advised that 92-97% of those responding were satisfied with
services being provided by the city with no demographic group “less happy.”
Street maintenance rated lowest. He commented that the parks, city facilities,
and personnel with an average 90% rating projected a very positive image.
According to the survey citizens are staying abreast of city information by way
of the city newsletter (75%), the Kenton County Recorder (61%) and the Kentucky
Post (49%) being the top three. The survey also concluded that 49% have
internet access in their homes, mainly the 30-50 years of age group, and that
38% plan to have access in the future. The survey data also revealed that 77%
of those responding wanted the property tax rate to stay the same, but if the
tax rate was increased, 47% wanted the increase to be used for street
maintenance. If services had to be cut in order to keep the current tax rate,
60% of those responding felt recreation expenses should be trimmed.
5.   Dr. Thomson stated that 40% of survey participants made open comments,
which is a very high percentage and indicates a very motivated group. Most
comments were directed toward public infrastructure. In conclusion, Dr. Thomson
stated that overall citizens are satisfied with city services. He commented
that the Census 2000 data will not be available until the year 2002 and
suggested the city may want to conduct the second citizen survey after the
census data is available – possibly in 2003.
6.   Mayor Kriege thanked Dr. Thomson for compiling the survey data and making
the presentation. He also advised council that he and the city staff would
review the survey in more detail with regard to looking at needed improvements
in city services.
Recess
7.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to take a short recess; seconded by Mr. Dupps.
Motion carried with all ayes.
8.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mr.
Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
9.   Ms. Nancy Ballinger, who co-ordinates the Meals-on-Wheels program in
Independence addressed council regarding the need to provide services to the
senior citizens. She informed council of the huge cuts in funding to the
present program that services the senior citizens. Ms. Ballinger appealed to
council to consider allocating funds to continue providing meals to recipients
of the Meals-on-Wheels program. She stated recipients are short and long term
and the annual cost of providing one meal per day is $1,400. She added that the
meal is only a part of the service provided by this program; that sometimes the
person delivering the meal is the only human contact that senior may have
during the day. Also with medical prescriptions so costly sometimes a senior
will have to cut their grocery budget in order to pay for their medicine needs.
Ms. Ballinger stated that currently the City of Covington and the City of
Bellevue have provided funds for this program and remarked that cities need to
take ownership of their senior citizens. In closing Mrs. Ballinger encouraged
council to consider her request, as the Meals-on-Wheels program is a valuable
program which allows the seniors to remain in their own home where they are
happiest.
10.   Council requested Ms. Ballinger provide a more defined financial request
and other pertinent data for the next regular council meeting to be held May 3,
1999. She stated she would provide that information and will request the
Executive Director of the Northern Kentucky Senior Services to address council
at that meeting.
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
11.   Mr. Scott reported he had planned to have the 1999/2000 proposed budget
to council for review tonight but that the budget needs some additional review
by the Budget and Finance Committee. He advised that a special meeting might be
scheduled sometime in May to have a first reading of the budget ordinance with
a second reading at the first meeting in June. He stated the adoption of a new
employee pay plan would be scheduled in accordance with the budget.
12.   Mr. Scott reported he and Mrs. Yeager had met with representatives of OKI
regarding the park and ride lot to be located at 5292 Madison Pike. OKI has
agreed to erect a shelter and pay for the striping of the lot. Mr. Scott stated
OKI was informed the city would not agree to a long-term lease. The park and
ride lot will accommodate one handicap and twenty-five regular parking spaces.
13.   Mr. Scott also advised council a letter has been sent to KCMP&Z
requesting that building regulations for sidewalks have ADA accessible ramps at
the time of development.
Police Department – Ed Porter
14.   Chief Porter reviewed the Blockwatch meetings and D.A.R.E. graduation
schedules with council. He encouraged their attendance for both public service
programs.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
15.   Mr. Whitacre reported that they have been keeping up with pothole
repairs. Mr. Feldhaus asked him to check Willow Drive as it is in bad
condition. Mr. Whitacre also advised the contracted asphalt repairs have begun
in the Beechgrove area and the concrete repairs will begin in June. He also
reported a tree on Sugar Tree Drive would be removed by the city as it is in
the right of way and has become a traffic hazard.
New Business
16.   Mr. Feldhaus asked that the property located at 27 Fleming Drive be
inspected. He stated it is in violation of the zoning ordinance due to high
grass and neighbors are complaining.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
17.   Mayor Kriege stated he feels the citizen survey yielded good results but
there is always room for improvement. He will begin work on the details of the
survey and keep council apprised.
Old Business
18.   Mr. Feldhaus mentioned he was reviewing the model sign ordinance
submitted by the Mayor and wondered if the city is currently following the sign
ordinance regulations of the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning. Mr.
Ellison stated that KCMPZ is revising their sign ordinance.
Closing Comments
19.   Mr. Ellison requested the city send a letter to the KCMP&Z Commission
voicing opposition to a request being made by CDS Associates, Inc. to waive
regulations for sidewalks along Taylor Mill Road and street stubs for a planned
subdivision development called Bradleign Woods. Mr. Steffen stated this was
discussed at the Planning & Zoning Committee meeting wherein the committee
would recommend waiving the street stubs but not the sidewalk on Taylor Mill
Road. Mr. Ellison stated he has seen problems in the past when sidewalks were
not extended on street stubs and suggested council members attending the May
6th KCMP&Z meeting to voice opposition to the waiver.
20.   Mr. Dupps commented the “Independence Tomorrow” strategic planning
committee has an active and talented group of participants who are meeting
regularly. He stated this committee is receiving good citizen input and
encouraged everyone to attend these meetings; the next meeting is scheduled for
May 10, 1999 at the Kenton County Extension Center.
Executive Session
21.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to enter into executive session pursuant to
KRS 61.810 (f) for the purpose of discussing personnel matters. Mrs. Yeager
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
22.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to return to the regular session of the
meeting; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
23.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion
carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 9:12 p.m.
______________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MAY 3, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Gregory Steffen, and Eric Dupps answered roll call. Also in attendance
were Gary Scott, City Administrator and H. Lawson Walker, City Attorney.
Presentation of Certificate of Accreditation to the Police Department
2.   Mr. Mike Bischoff former Police Chief for the City of Fort Thomas
presented the Certificate of Accreditation to Chief Ed Porter. Mr. Bischoff
acted as the assessment team leader for the police department during the
lengthy application process. He explained the accreditation procedures to the
audience and how much of the work involves the development of policy and
procedures, which cover high liability issues. Mr. Bischoff commented that the
department’s hard work and dedication toward attaining this endorsement proves
to the citizens that they want to be the best. Chief Porter accepted the
certification on behalf of all the members of the Police Department as he
explained it has been a group effort. All members of the police department were
introduced to council and the audience.
Adoption of Council Minutes
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the April 27,
1999 meeting, as submitted. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Motion carried
with all ayes.
Privileges of the Floor
4.   Betty Woods, member of the Independence Recreation Committee, submitted to
council the committee’s recommendations for names for the parks in Hartland
Subdivision and Shaw Road. She stated individual’s names were submitted for the
park at Shaw Road but the committee preferred not to name the park after an
individual but instead proposed “Memorial Park”. Mrs. Woods explained the
committee suggested a memorial wall, plaque, or other type of dedication for
individuals. The name suggested by the committee for the Hartland Subdivision
park was “Hartland City Park”.
5.   Mrs. Woods also reminded council and wanted to make new residents aware of
the Memorial Tree Program at the city parks. For $300-$325 a tree will be
planted with a 6x8 memorial plaque in remembrance of a loved one.
6.   Mrs. Yeager urged council to approve the Recreation Committee’s
recommendations for names for the two parks. Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to name
the Shaw Road park “Memorial Park” and the park in the Hartland Subdivision
“Hartland City Park.” Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. The motion was answered
with five ayes and one nay vote cast by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 5-1.
7.   Nancy Ballinger and Ellen Cook of the Senior Services of Northern Kentucky
addressed council requesting the city allocate funds to provide meals via the
Meals-on-Wheels Program to needy senior residents in Independence. Ms. Cook
stated the program has been affected by the recent cuts in state funding with
Kenton County alone dropping 6,378 meals to residents. Ms. Cook reported that
in March 1999 fifteen Independence seniors were receiving meals (with more on a
waiting list) but that number has declined to six being currently served. Ms.
Cook also stressed that any funds the city would allocate for the meals on
wheels program would be used for Independence residents. She explained the city
would be billed monthly for the meals. Ms. Cook also advised it cost $1,400 per
year per individual for the meal service. Mayor Kriege asked the Budget &
Finance Committee to discuss the possibility of appropriating some funds for
this program at the May 5, 1999 meeting.
Department Reports
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
8.   Mr. Scott reported the request for proposals for banking services had been
received from six banks. Finance Director, Amy Guenther, reviewed the summary
of proposals with council. She explained the proposal packet requested certain
services the city required. She stated the city is currently receiving on-line
banking services with Fifth Third Bank in order to reconcile the monthly bank
statements in a more timely manner. She stated the priority for the city was to
maximize net investment income. Ms. Guenther stated she and Mr. Scott met with
the Budget & Finance Committee to review the proposals and concluded that Fifth
Third Bank offered all the services the city desired. Fifth Third Bank was able
to offer an investment rate much higher because they do a “daily sweep” and
recommended liquid asset management for the city’s investments by possibly
using U.S.Government securities. Mr. Padgett of Fifth Third Bank, who was in
the audience, advised they would work with the Finance Committee to set
guidelines for security investments which would be actively managed accounts,
reviewed on a daily basis. He stressed these types of investments are actually
owned by the city and are not certificate of deposits. Mr. Padgett also assured
council the U.S. Government securities comply with all KRS regulations.
Award of Banking Services Proposal to Fifth Third Bank
9.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to accept Fifth Third Bank’s proposal for the
city’s banking services; seconded by Mr. Feldhaus. Roll call was answered by
five yes votes and one abstain vote cast by Mrs. Yeager.
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott (continued)
First Reading on proposed Ordinance No. 1999-O-04 repealing Ordinance No. 1993-
O-05
10.   Mr. Scott explained to council that the current Personnel Policy was
adopted by Resolution and the old policy was repealed in the same Resolution.
He stated that as a housekeeping measure it was necessary to repeal the old
personnel policy by ordinance, which was submitted to them. Mr. Walker informed
council the proposed ordinance would clear out Ordinance No. 1993-O-05. Mr.
Feldhaus stated he would like to see a copy of Ordinance No. 1993-O-05 before
performing a first reading on a new ordinance to override it.
11.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have the first reading of Ordinance 1999-O-
04 repealing Personnel Policy Ordinance No. 1993-O-05. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr.
Feldhaus. Motion carried 5-1 and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Resolution to Adopt a new Employee Pay Plan
12.   Mr. Scott submitted a proposed resolution to the council members wherein
the city would be adopting personnel pay scales as part of the personnel
policies. He explained the Northern Ky. Area Development District conducted a
market study to see how the city compares with other local cities. The Budget &
Finance Committee reviewed the pay plan with no opposition noted. He explained
that by adopting this resolution it would become part of the Personnel Policy
adopted in December 1998 and would become effective with the 1999/2000 fiscal
year budget. Mr. Scott advised the spread sheet would change over time as the
cost of living increases. Mr. Feldhaus commented that since the budget is not
finalized that it was not necessary to adopt this resolution at this time and
felt it should be done in connection with next year’s budget. Mr. Scott stated
the budget ordinance would supercede the resolution. Mayor Kriege commented
that adopting the pay plan by resolution should not matter to the budget
ordinance; that each year the funds have to be available in the budget
ordinance. Mr. Scott stated the pay plan is a guideline when preparing the
budget and the personnel policy continues to be “a work in progress.” Mrs.
Gabbard stated she did not feel this was a problem to adopt the proposed
resolution at this time. Mr. Feldhaus cautioned that if the budget ordinance
superceded the resolution then there was no rush in adopting the resolution at
this time.
13.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to read the proposed resolution adopting the
personnel pay scales as part of the personnel policies. The motion died for
lack of a second.
14.   Mr. Scott informed council he would be attending the Public Hearing on
May 6, 1999 being held by the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning
Commission regarding two development issues proposed in Independence. One of
the developments is located on Senour Road wherein the developer is requesting
an overlay for lot sizes and the other development near Rickey Lane the
developer is requesting a waiver on sidewalks on Taylor Mill Road and street
stubs. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Scott stated he would take a position on
the sidewalks for Taylor Mill Road but no position on the street stubs.
Zoning Administrator – Kevin Barbian
15.   Mr. Barbian reported that he anticipates a few violations in compliance
with zoning matters will come before the Code Enforcement Board. He also
reported he has passed the second test for building inspection and is studying
for future tests. He is currently performing additional duties of building
inspections.
16.   Mayor Kriege questioned Mr. Barbian about a dog that has become a problem
on St. Francis Drive. Mr. Barbian stated the dog warden has been informed and a
nuisance violation letter mailed.
17.   There was a brief discussion regarding the property located at 6531 Sugar
Camp Drive, which has been seized by the federal government. Mr. Feldhaus
stated the yard is overgrown with high grass and weeds and suggested sending
the city’s lawn maintenance contractor to cut the grass and then place a lien
on the property. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Barbian to report back on this matter.
Police Department – Ed Porter
18.   Chief Porter reminded council of the D.A.R.E. graduation dates announced
at the last meeting and encouraged their attendance. Speakers scheduled are
prominent athletes from the Cincinnati Bengals and Buffalo Bills football
teams.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre and Dan Briggs
19.   Mr. Briggs reported the potholes reported to the city would be repaired
this week. He also stated that Willow Drive would be fully repaved within 2-
3 weeks. He advised council of a final walk-through at Shaw Road Park with
Michels to go over the punch list.
20.   Mr. Briggs stated twenty-five ditch grates have been ordered to replace
the current ones in resident’s yards. The grates should arrive in approximately
two weeks and will be installed by Lucas Sanitation.
21.   Mr. Briggs reported he inspected the “tot lot” installed in the Hartland
City Park and advised some follow up work needs to be done to complete
restoration. He recommended calling the installer to complain about the
restoration. He also stated the transformers are being placed in the Hartland
Subdivision so that the lighting of the boulevard should be completed soon.
22.   Mr. Feldhaus referred to the five year Comprehensive Street Report
wherein the joint and crack sealing was not recommended every year. Mr. Briggs
advised that in the past a cheaper sealing product was used but that the sealer
being used now should last approximately five years so that it is not necessary
to do this each year.
City Attorney – H. Lawson Walker
23.   Mr. Walker stated negotiations are on going in the AT&T cell tower matter
and he is currently waiting for answers to be filed.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance
24.   This committee is actively meeting, most recently reviewing the bank
service proposals. The next meeting is scheduled for 5:00 p.m. on May 5, 1999
at the city building.
Personnel Policy
25.   Mrs. Yeager reported they met last week and have scheduled another
meeting for May 10, 1999 at 4:00 p.m. at the city building.
Planning & Zoning
26.   This committee met last week to discuss the two developments proposed at
Senour Road and Rickey Lane. Mr. Scott will attend the public hearing being
held by the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission on May 6,
1999.
Public Safety
27.   Mr. Dupps reported this committee would meet on May 17, 1999.
Public Works
28.   Mr. Scott reported that the deadline for applicants for the two public
works positions was 5:00 p.m. today. He will contact the committee to schedule
a meeting to review the thirteen applications submitted.
NEW BUSINESS
29.   Mr. Feldhaus advised council of the letter he received from Eric Deters
regarding plans for a 5K race he would like to schedule in memory of his wife,
Lisa. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Scott to discuss accommodations that Mr. Deters
may need for this race with the Police Chief.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
30.   Mayor Kriege advised the Building Committee would meet on May 4, 1999 at
4:00 p.m. and the Budget & Finance Committee would meet at 5:00 p.m. on May 5,
1999.
31.   Mayor Kriege commented the citizen survey summary did not have exact
comments from the citizens but the actual surveys will be made available for
council to view when they are received back from N.K.U. This will enable the
city to work on specific details of the survey.
Executive Session
32.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to enter into executive session according to
K.R.S. 61.815 (b) for the purpose of discussing future acquisition of property;
seconded by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 5-1 with Mr. Dupps voting no.
33.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mr.
Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
34.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion
carried with all ayes. The meeting adjourned at 8:47 p.m.
   _____________________________________
   Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MAY 18, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. He explained the
purpose of this special meeting was to discuss the proposed 1999/2000 budget he
has submitted to council for adoption. Council members, Jim Ellison, Eric
Dupps, Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Barbara Gabbard, and Gregory Steffen
answered roll call. Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Paul Alley who was substituting
for the city attorney, H. Lawson Walker. Also present were Gary Scott, City
Administrator and Amy Guenther the city’s Finance Director.
Mayor Kriege’s Budget Address and Proposed Budget for F/Y 1999/2000
2.   In his Budget Address to council, Mayor Kriege highlighted the present and
future needs of the city. Mayor Kriege presented two proposed budgets – Version
A and Version B – and indicated that he was endorsing Version A which included
the addition of three police officers to the Police Department, $400,000 for
road repairs, and the addition of a Public Works Department with two employees.
Mayor Kriege commented that the growing population is the reason for the need
for more police officers and a Public Works Department. He also addressed the
need for additional office space and will begin actively searching for a site
to build a new city facility with the hopes of breaking ground in the fall of
the year 2001.
Discussion of the Proposed F/Y 1999/2000 Budget
3.   As a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, Mr. Feldhaus began the
discussion by explaining the primary difference between the two proposals was
the addition of three police officers and the amount funded for street repairs.
Both proposals include an overall 5% increase in employee salaries. Mr.
Feldhaus stated the recent citizen survey revealed the residents were unhappy
with the condition of the streets and he would like to see more funds allocated
for street maintenance and repairs. He indicated that one new officer would be
hired to replace the patrol officer that was assigned DARE duties. Chief Porter
stated that Version A would fund three new officers: one lieutenant, one
sergeant, and one patrol officer. Mr. Feldhaus questioned the need for another
lieutenant and sergeant.
4.   Mrs. Gabbard commented that the need for three officers or only one just
boils down to a matter of opinion. She said that she feels three addition
police officers are needed considering the continuing growth. She also stated
there is not a problem with money for the city to handle three additional
officers. Mr. Feldhaus stated he feels Version A is a “want” budget not a need
budget. He would like to see more funds directed to the road fund.
5.   Mr. Dupps commented that recent development plans call for an additional
1200 homes on the Taylor Mill Road side of the city indicating phenomenal
growth. Mrs. Yeager stated those homes won’t be constructed in the coming year.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus pointed out that with the addition of three more officers
would also mean leasing three more cruisers. Currently the police department’s
home fleet program is at twenty-three cars. Mr. Ellison provided history on the
program by stating that when the home fleet program was established there were
only eight cars and the officers lived in the city. Now some officers do not
live in the city but the city allows participation in the program. Mr. Feldhaus
stated that in the past employee salaries were low and the take home fleet
program was an incentive to keep the officers on the department. Chief Porter
advised that Version A of the proposed budget include the cost for three
additional cruisers. Mr. Feldhaus responded that he was not against the home
fleet program.
7.   Chief Porter stated that officer response time is valuable and they would
be able to gain time with additional officers. Mr. Feldhaus stated that adding
another officer would make twenty-one officers – well over 1.5/1000 population.
Chief Porter responded that the national average is 2.5/1000 population. Mr.
Ellison stated the Kenton County Police and Sheriff Departments also cover the
Independence area. Mrs. Gabbard remarked the county police are busy all the
time.
8.   At this point in the meeting, Mr. Scott encouraged council to address all
concerns with the budget tonight before a first reading of the ordinance
because any line items changed afterwards would be cause for a new first
reading.
9.   Mr. Ellison maintained his position by stating he felt the city only
needed to add a patrol officer to replace the officer now handling the DARE
duties. He stated he is in favor of providing a DARE officer for the school
programs. He voiced his opposition to adding more lieutenants and sergeants to
increase the police office staff thereby adding a level of bureaucracy that in
his opinion the city doesn’t need. Mr. Ellison stated he felt more officers
should be patrolling the streets. He also expressed the need to establish the
Public Works Department in the coming year by supplying that department with
needed equipment.
10.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Steffen what his thoughts were regarding the
proposed budget. Mr. Steffen questioned the uniform allowance line item under
the administration department’s budget. The Mayor indicated this was discussed
at the Planning Session in February and would provide for a more professional
appearance in the city clerk’s department. A discussion ensued regarding
uniforms for the public works employees. Mr. Scott stated they would possibly
order city t-shirts and/or photo identification for public works employees. Mr.
Steffen also asked about the auto lease under the administration budget and the
Mayor explained that was for the city administrator’s vehicle.
11.   Mr. Steffen also expressed reservations regarding the allocation of
$15,000 for the Meals on Wheels program. He stated that he felt the city was
getting into the business of social service, which may be hard to bow out of in
the future. Mr. Feldhaus commented that the cuts in federal and state funding
were forcing the city to provide this service. Mayor Kriege assured Mr. Steffen
this line item would be re-evaluated each year but felt that as along as the
city could afford to allocate some funds that we should do it. Mr. Ellison and
Mrs. Yeager also voiced support for this contribution. Mr. Ellison commented
that the seniors need this service and he doesn’t see this as a permanent
arrangement for the meals program but more as a stopgap measure while they seek
other sources of revenue. Mrs. Yeager concurred and added the meal is only part
of the service; this is a good way to watch over our seniors. Mr. Steffen
stated he felt other services were just as worthy of city funding and
reiterated his concern of this becoming a permanent fixture in the budget.
12.   Mr. Steffen asked the Mayor why $75,000 was allocated in the building
fund for a building. Mayor Kriege responded he had no set plans for that line
item. Mr. Ellison asked what the difference was between the line items of city
attorney contract and attorney fees. Mr. Scott explained the contract was for
the monthly retainer fee and the attorney fees were for miscellaneous charges
for lawsuit work not covered under the retainer contract.
13.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mrs. Guenther how much money was in the city’s reserve
fund. Mrs. Guenther stated there was 1.3M in the general fund reserve with a
total 2.81M for all city funds. A discussion ensued regarding recommended
guidelines for reserves. Mrs. Guenther informed council the state
recommendation is three to six months of operating expenses that should be kept
in reserve, which would be approximately $67,000 per month for the city. Mr.
Feldhaus felt that with such a large reserve more money should be allocated to
the road budget for the street maintenance/repairs. Mrs. Guenther felt the
reason for the large reserve was that in the past the revenue was not projected
in accordance with the rapid growth of the city. She also stated the revenues
in the proposed budget have been conservatively projected.
14.   Mayor Kriege advised that thirty-five percent of the budgeted figures in
Version A has been taken out of the reserve funds. He stated the city shouldn’t
hold onto the large reserve when facing issues such as a new building facility,
needed storm sewer improvements, etc. Mr. Steffen suggested pulling more money
from the reserves to fund the needed street repairs. Mr. Feldhaus commented he
is uncomfortable sitting on 1.3M in reserves when it should be spent on public
services or the council should consider lowering the property tax rate. Mayor
Kriege voiced reluctance in lowering the reserve too drastically during his
first year in office. He advised the budget could be amended later in the
fiscal year when the expenses and revenues were reviewed.
15.   At this point, a portion of reserve funds was redirected to increase
several expenditure line items. The line items included: Special Events from
$10,000 to $15,000 (to cover the full cost of the July 4th fireworks
celebration), Road repairs from $400,000 to $500,000, Police training from
$14,000 to $20,000 and the total operational expenses for the parks from
$30,000 to $40,000.
First Reading of the Proposed Budget for F/Y 1999-2000
16.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of Version B of the
proposed budget for f/y 1999/2000; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Roll call vote was
answered with three yes votes and three no votes cast by Mr. Dupps, Mrs.
Gabbard, and Mr. Steffen. Mayor Kriege broke the 3/3 tie by voting no. Motion
defeated 4-3.
17.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion have a first reading of Version A of the
proposed budget for the f/y 1999-2000. Mr. Dupps made a motion to second the
motion but suggested adding another $100,000 to the road repairs line item.
Under the attorney’s advice, Mrs. Gabbard withdrew her motion.
18.   Mr. Ellison resumed the discussion regarding the addition of three police
officers in Version A of the proposed budget by saying the increase of three
patrolmen was more preferable than additional administrative staff. Chief
Porter responded that in the past there have been problems due to lack of
supervision and the goal is to increase patrol and supervision. He stated that
currently the department is not even close to that and is trying to expand that
building block. Again, the number of calls each officer responds to was
discussed and Chief Porter stated that calls consist of only one-third of an
officer’s duties with the other two-thirds being proactive patrolling and
administration work. He stated that currently an officer is posted eight hours
a day at Simon Kenton High School. Mr. Ellison commented that the Kenton County
School Board and the Kenton County Police Department need to share that expense
and responsibility. He felt the citizens shouldn’t be penalized by taking a
patrol officer off the street and placed as a guard at the school. Council
agreed that with only two weeks of school left an officer could remain at the
school but the school board would have to make other safeguarding arrangements
in the future.
19.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading of Version A of the
proposed 1999/2000 Budget Ordinance as amended. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the
motion. Roll call vote was answered with three yes votes and three no votes
cast by Mr. Ellison, Mr. Feldhaus, and Mrs. Yeager. Mayor Kriege broke the tie
vote by casting a yes vote. Motion carried 4-3.
20.   City Attorney, Mr. Alley requested a short recess before reading the
ordinance so that he could confer with Ms. Guenther on the correct totals.
21.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a short recess; seconded by Mr.
Steffen. Motion carried with all ayes.
22.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to resume the meeting; seconded by Mr. Yeager.
Motion carried with all ayes.
23.   Mr. Alley read the revised Version A of the proposed 1999/2000 Budget
ordinance.
Adjournment
24.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion
carried and the meeting adjourned at 9:27 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 7, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
were Gary Scott, City Administrator and Paul Alley, City Attorney sitting in
for H. Lawson Walker.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the council minutes of the May 3,
1999 regular meeting as submitted. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion
carried 6-0 with all ayes.
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the council minutes of the special
budget meeting held on May 18, 1999 as submitted. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. Motion carried 6-0 with all ayes.
Eric Deters – 5K Memorial Race
4.   Mr. Eric Deters addressed council regarding a 5K Memorial Race he is
planning in memory of his deceased wife who was an avid runner. He stated the
event is scheduled for September 11, 1999 at 7:00 p.m. He informed council that
he sees this as a major fundraiser for several organizations he has been
affiliated with all profits going to charity. It will be a festival like
atmosphere with music and food available. Mr. Deters stated the race will be
professionally run, but the exact route of the race is not yet determined. He
mentioned he would like to build a permanent stage at his cost by way of
corporate sponsors or other contributors. Mrs. Yeager stated the city is in the
process of getting donations to build an amphitheater. Mr. Deters stated he
would be happy to collaborate with the city in that endeavor. He stated he
would like to make this 5K Memorial Race an annual event for the city. He asked
for the city’s support, as he would like to use Memorial Park. Mrs. Yeager
stated the Independence Recreation Commission would work with him on the
details of the event. Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Deters that Mr. Scott and Police
Chief Porter would help him obtain the needed permits and arrange the policing
needs for this event.
Discussion of Proposed Development on Senour Road by Fischer Homes
5.   Several representatives for Fischer Homes made a formal presentation for
the proposed Valley Park Development on Senour Road. Attorney, Elizabeth
Horowitz, started out by saying that Fischer Homes was requesting the city to
grant a zone change from R1-C to R1-C/RCD overlay. The R1-C/RCD overlay would
permit 50-foot lots. She stated that a section of the development is in
Covington but it would be treated as one parcel. Ms. Horowitz advised council
that this zone change was approved by a 10-1 vote in favor of the development
as it meets all the elements of the comprehensive plan. Ms. Horowitz said that
the overlay zone would provide variation in the density to the greatest extent
possible. She also cautioned council that the described development plan is to
be voted on as presented.
6.   Mr. Jim Gorman, Vice President and General Manager for Fischer Development
Company, stated that the property on Senour Road was purchased with the clear
understanding of the 80-foot lot requirements but felt the RCD overlay zone
could provide for more recreation and open space. He also stated that the homes
to be built in this development are smaller than Fischer usually builds.
7.   Another representative advised council that he prepared the land design on
this project. He described the current land as a mixture of mature trees,
pasture, a creek with both major wooded areas and open meadow areas for a total
of 103.18 acres. He stated that with the proposed development there would be
ten fewer homes. This would enable leaving twenty percent open space which is
required for the overlay zone. Three parks will be developed in the open space
for a total 24 acres of recreational space. He stated a homeowners’ association
will maintain the lake and parks. The parks will provide both active (soccer
and baseball fields) and passive (nature setting) recreation. In closing, he
stated that the overlay makes for a strong community and will be an asset to
the city. If developed at the current zone of R1-C the subdivision will have a
very generic look, whereas the overlay creates a nice variety.
8.   Next to speak was Mr. Ray Erpenbeck, the engineer on the project. He
explained to council that currently there are no public sewers in this area of
the city. He advised that the Sanitation District has a few sewer pumps in the
area and the land is serviceable for sewers. In regard to storm water run-off,
he stated that the storm sewers would be built to the current subdivision
regulations. He stated this type of cluster development would generate less
storm water run-off. Mr. Erpenbeck also advised council that a traffic study
had been conducted and he provided council with a copy of that report. He
indicated that the reconstruction of Rt. 17 will change the traffic pattern
somewhat and will help alleviate the traffic problem in the area.
9.   Mr. Henry Fischer addressed council by stating that he is currently
developing the Liberty Orchard subdivision in the Madison Pike area and he had
received some nice comments from the council regarding that subdivision. He
stated that the primary market he is going to serve is the homeowner in the
$100-$140,000 price range. He stated he is willing to make some additional
commitments relative to the houses such as side garage entries on the Senour
Road houses in order to provide more road appeal. He also stated he would have
50 and 70-foot setbacks on Senour Road to maintain a more rural environment.
Mr. Fischer stated that the smaller lots are aimed at the young professionals
and empty nesters. He stated that he met with the council’s Planning & Zoning
Committee on two separate occasions wherein the e issues raised were storm
water retention and traffic. He stated that he is also willing to commit to
putting on the south side of the development playground equipment more central
to the development. He stated that all garages would be two-car garages, which
will provide for four off-street parking spaces. He stated he is willing to
construct 28-foot wide loops to help with the traffic flow. He advised that if
the land is developed at the current zone of R1-C that many trees would be
removed. He also reminded council that the Kenton County Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission is obligated to approve the development plan when it meets
all requirements.
10.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Fischer if he was going to develop the rear
section of the subdivision. Mr. Fischer stated that it was a high probability
but that he could not guarantee that he would. Mr. Fischer stated the homes on
the larger lots would be similar to the homes built in the Liberty Orchard
subdivision.
11.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to table any action on the requested zone
change for the property on Senour Road in order to gather more information. Mr.
Steffen seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0.
Motion for a Brief Recess
12.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to take a short recess; seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes.
13.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to reconvene the meeting; seconded by Mrs.
Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
14.   Mr. Earl Cox of 714 Rickey Lane, addressed council regarding the
Bradleign Woods development planned for the west side of Taylor Mill Road
approximately 400 feet south of Rickey Lane. Mr. Cox stated this development
plan originally showed a street stub to the adjacent land, which would provide
for potential future extension. He would like to see the street stub added to
the plan and was seeking assistance from council. Mr. Alley advised Mr. Cox to
consult with an attorney regarding an appeal to the Planning Commission. After
a brief discussion it was decided that Mr. Ellison and Mr. Scott would contact
the developer and the Planning Commission to see what can be done assist Mr.
Cox with his request.
Discussion of re-naming Hartland Park
15.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to reconsider the naming of Hartland Park and
Memorial Park. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. A discussion ensued wherein Mrs.
Gabbard stated she has had more time to think about the name of Hartland Park
and doesn’t feel the city should advertise the name of a subdivision. Mayor
Kriege stated that he doesn’t see it as advertising but instead helps to locate
the park. Mr. Feldhaus stated the Independence Recreation Committee recommended
the park names. Mr. Steffen stated he wasn’t necessarily against the name but
felt it should be more inclusive of the whole city. Mrs. Yeager stated the
Recreation Committee did not want to name the parks after individuals. The
consensus was to ask the Recreation Committee to make a new recommendation for
the Hartland Park. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote
cast by Mrs. Yeager.
16.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to decide on the park names separately;
seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes.
17.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to name the park at Shaw Road, Memorial Park;
seconded by Mr. Dupps. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Motion to Repeal old Personnel Policies
18.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to have a second reading on proposed Ordinance
No. 1999-O-04 to repeal Ordinance No. 1993-O-05 Personnel Policies and adopting
Resolution No. 1998-R-09 Personnel Policies. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion.
No roll call; motion carried with all ayes. The city attorney read the proposed
ordinance.
19.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 1999-O-04 as read;
seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0
Proposed Budget for 1999/2000
20.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to have the second reading of proposed
ordinance adopting a budget for the 1999/2000 fiscal year. Mr. Dupps seconded
the motion. A lengthy discussion followed the motion.
21.   The discussion centered on Option A of the proposed budget that provides
for the addition of three new officers in the police department. Mr. Feldhaus
stated that at the current staffing of twenty officers that provides for a 1.6
officers per1000 population ratio and Option B will raise that ratio to 1.7/
1000. He compared that to the Department of Justice survey average of 2.5/1000
with the average for major cities like New York, Los Angeles, etc. being 2.3/
1000. He also cited the bookings are comparable with other smaller departments.
Mr. Feldhaus also stated that the city currently has a take home fleet of
twenty cruisers and that larger departments carry an average of 57 cruisers/100
officers. He stated that on the local level the number of sworn officers is 11/
10,000 giving a 1.1 ratio which the city of Independence is above that average
at 1.6. He reminded council that at the January planning session Chief Porter
indicated that each officer handles three calls per shift. He stated that a
good indication of the need for more officers would be an excessive amount of
overtime dollars being paid out. Mr. Feldhaus stated that when the overtime
hours increase then you need to look at the addition of more officers. He
stated that currently only $8,100 has been paid out in overtime. He stated that
he feels to be fiscally sound that three officers are not necessary now. He
also went on to say that the current population is estimated at around 12,000
but that during the day the population drops between 6,000 – 8,000. In closing,
Mr. Feldhaus stated that he feels that Option B overall is a good budget with
5% employee salary increases and adding one police officer to replace the
D.A.R.E. officer. He asked council to reconsider Option B as the chose for next
year’s budget.
22.   Mr. Ellison commented that from the mileage report he received from the
police department it reveals that most cruisers travel less than fifty miles on
each shift. He believes this is a low rate especially when they are being used
to travel to and from work.
23.   Mrs. Gabbard commented that she thought all these concerns had been
cleared up at the last meeting, but appreciated receiving the additional
information.
24.   Mr. Scott advised council that it was best to settle the budget tonight
but that a special meeting could be scheduled for June 22, 1999. Mr. Feldhaus
commented that the budget could still get passed by July 1, 1999. But to
inflate the police department when the numbers don’t justify the increases is
an injustice to the taxpayers.
25.   Officer Shawn Butler, who was sitting in for Chief Porter, commented that
what the community wants and council wants dictates what police services are
performed. There is a wide variety of services that need to be funded
26.   Mr. Feldhaus stated that previous councils have increased the police
department substantially since 1995 – from 13 officers with a budget of
$680,000 to the current 20 officers with a budget of $1.3M in 1998/99. He
stated that there might be a need to increase the department, but not this
much, as indications do not support the increase of three officers.
27.   At this time, Mayor Kriege asked for a roll call vote on the above stated
motion for a second reading of the proposed budget for 1999/2000. Roll call was
answered with three no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus, Mrs. Yeager and Mr. Ellison
and three yes votes cast by Mrs. Gabbard, Mr. Dupps and Mr. Steffen with Mayor
Kriege voting yes to break the tie. Motion carried 4-3. The city attorney, Mr.
Alley, read the proposed ordinance.
Motion to Adopt Budget Ordinance No. 1999-O-05
28.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to adopt the 1999/2000 Budget Ordinance No.
1999-O-05 as read. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered
with three no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus, Mrs. Yeager and Mr. Ellison and three
yes votes cast by Mrs. Gabbard, Mr. Steffen and Mr. Dupps with Mayor Kriege
voting yes to break the tie. Motion carried 4-3 in favor.
29.   Mr. Dupps commented that he agrees with Mr. Feldhaus that the police
department is doing a good job but cited the increased growth in population and
the need for the budget to reflect the needs of the future.
Motion to read proposed Ordinance to Amend the 1998/99 Budget
30.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend the 1998/99 budget; seconded by Mr. Steffen. Roll call was
answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0. Mr. Alley read the proposed
ordinance. Mr. Scott advised council that although the expenditures increased,
the revenues exceeded what was estimated keeping up with the expenses.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
31.   Mr. Scott stated that a special council meeting would be scheduled for
June 22, 1999 to discuss and take action of the proposed ordinance to amend the
1998/99 budget.
Building/Zoning Inspector – Kevin Barbian
32.   Mr. Barbian reported that last month 29 permits were issued for single
family residences and 19 building permits for various items as pools, decks,
fences, etc. He stated that the monthly building permit reports would be on a
one-month delay due to the change in the council meeting dates. He also
reported that zoning violation citations would be mailed soon. Mr. Scott
explained that Mr. Al Bowling, who has been the building inspector for the last
twenty years, has been gradually retiring and Mr. Barbian has been assuming the
position of Building Inspector for the city. He stated that zoning and building
is a two man job and the city has recently placed a classified ad to fill the
Zoning Administrator position.
City Clerk – Patricia Taney
33.   The City Clerk reminded the Mayor and Council members of the Kentucky
League of Cities Annual Convention to be held in Paducah from October 6-9,
1999. She requested that anyone planning to attend to submit his or her
reservations this week.
Police Department – Lt. Shawn Butler
34.   Lt. Butler, sitting in for Chief Ed Porter, stated he had no report.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
35.   Mr. Whitacre reported the asphalt street repairs are nearly complete in
the Beechgrove area. They have also taken care of the pothole repairs. He
indicated the need to schedule a meeting to discuss storm sewers in the
Beechgrove area. Many of the pipes in the city are literally falling apart. He
also reported the Park and Ride lot will need to be bid out if the proposals
come in too high as he feels the design may cost over $10,000. The Mayor asked
about landscaping around the Park and Ride lot. Mr. Whitacre stated he was not
handling the landscaping of the lot.
36.   There was a brief discussion regarding storm sewers. Mr. Whitacre
expressed the need for the city to establish criteria and set policy in
handling extensions and easements. Mr. Scott stated this would be something the
Public Works Committee could explore. There was also a brief discussion
regarding the pond behind some homes on Gunstock Court in the Hunters Green
Subdivision. The pond is in the common area that is deeded to the subdivision’s
homeowners’ association and is causing a land erosion problem for the nearby
homes. The city attorney was asked to research the city’s liability if the city
filled in the pond.
City Attorney – Paul Alley (sitting in for H. Lawson Walker)
37.   Mr. Alley stated there were two resolutions before council for adoption.
The first one was regarding the job descriptions for the public works employees
and the second was the adoption of an employee pay plan. There was a brief
discussion regarding the wording of the titles for the public works employees
(to non-gender) and whether or not the lead worker would be classified as an
exempt or non-exempt employee. Mr. Scott assured council both public works
positions would be laborer jobs, as a management position was not needed at
this time.
Resolution No. 1999-R-04 Adopting Public Works Employees Job Descriptions
38.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to read Resolution No. 1999-R-04; seconded by
Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed
resolution.
39.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 1999-R-04; seconded by
Mrs. Yeager. Motion carried 5-1 with the no vote cast by Mr. Feldhaus.
Resolution No. 1999-R-03 Adopting a Pay Plan for the City Employees
40.   Mrs. Feldhaus made a motion to read Resolution No. 1999-R-03; seconded by
Mr. Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed
resolution.
41.   There was a brief discussion regarding the wording of the proposed pay
plan for the city employees. Mr. Feldhaus suggested the structure should be
across the board for all employees and asked that the wording for the police
department employees be the same as the rest of the city employees.
42.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 1999-R-03 adopting a
pay plan for the city employees as amended. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion.
Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
New Business
43.   Mr. Feldhaus submitted a proposed resolution that would support the 3-
L Highway jail site to be sent to the Kenton County Fiscal Court. Mr. Dupps
made a motion to read the proposed resolution to support the building of the
new Kenton County jail on the 3-L Highway site. Mr. Feldhaus seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered by four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr.
Ellison and Mrs. Gabbard. Mr. Walker read the proposed resolution
44.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 1999-R-05 supporting
the 3-L Highway site for the new Kenton County jail. Mr. Steffen seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr.
Ellison and Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
45.   Budget & Finance – Mr. Feldhaus stated the budget has been passed and
there is no need to meet at this time.
46.   Personnel & Administration – Mrs. Yeager stated they would be scheduling
a meeting to finish revisions to the current personnel policies and then will
be forwarded to council for approval.
47.   Planning & Zoning – Mr. Ellison stated they have met with representatives
of Fischer Homes regarding the planned re-zoning of property on Senour Road.
48.   Public Safety – Mr. Dupps stated the next committee meeting is scheduled
for June 14, 1999 at 5:30 at the police department. The last meeting was
cancelled due to a conflict.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
49.   Public Works Committee – Mr. Scott stated that a lead laborer has been
hired for the new Public Works Department. His name is Jeff Smith and he will
begin work on June 28, 1999. The committee is currently reviewing applications
for the second laborer, and discussing the start-up tools and vehicles that
will be needed by this department.
Miscellaneous
50.   Mr. Dupps stated he has received some complaints about the fireworks that
Nick’s Grove sets off at the restaurant on Taylor Mill Road. He asked if the
city could explore the legality of the restaurant’s practice of doing this.
Mayor’s Report – Tom Kriege
51.   Mayor Kriege reported that the “Independence Tomorrow” Strategic Planning
Committee has completed 95% of their comprehensive goals for the city and is
planning to make a presentation at the August council meeting.
52.   Mayor Kriege also announced that the Water District has asked the city to
conserve water, as there is currently a water shortage in this area. Mr.
Ellison commented that he is offended that the Water District has asked
Independence and Taylor Mill to conserve and not the entire Northern Kentucky
area. He stated he would like to see everyone conserve.
Adjournment
53.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 10:14 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 22, 1999
City of Independence
Special Council Meeting
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard, Eric
Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance was the city
administrator, Gary R. Scott and city attorney, Paul Alley sitting in for H.
Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege opened the meeting by stating this special meeting had been
called to discuss three items; an annexation request by Mr. Wayne Ferguson who
resides at 35 Pelly Road, discussion and possible action on the proposed
amended 1998/99 budget, and the discussion and possible action on the proposed
development by Fischer Homes on Senour Road.
Discussion of possible annexation of 35 Pelly Road – owner Wayne Ferguson
3.   Mr. Ferguson stated he would like to tie into the sewer system prompting
his request to be annexed into the city limits. He stated a neighbor is buying
a portion of the lot and does not wish to hook into the sewer line but that he
plans to tie his home into the sewer line. Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Ferguson if
he was under any time restraints to proceed. He stated he had been, but was
given the okay to proceed by the city administrator. Mr. Dupps stated that Mr.
Ferguson met with the city’s Planning and Zoning Committee to discuss his
request. Mayor Kriege stated an ordinance would be prepared by the next regular
council meeting. Mr. Ellison suggested having an emergency reading of the
ordinance at the next meeting as this sewer tie in is in progress.
Proposed Ordinance to Amend the 1998/99 Budget Ordinance
4.   The next item on the agenda was the amendment of the 1998/99-budget
ordinance to reflect the current and projected revenue and expenditures through
June 1999.
5.   Mr. Feldhaus questioned Police Chief Porter about funds that may have been
expended for the formation of a SWAT team. Chief Porter confirmed that some
funds had gone for the expense of tactical equipment and training for a SWAT
program. Mr. Ellison asked the Chief if the city was in the process of forming
a SWAT team. Chief Porter stated that training has been provided and was paid
for through existing resources. Chief Porter offered to speak to council
regarding the SWAT program at the next regular meeting.
6.   Mr. Dupps questioned Amy Guenther, Finance Director, regarding the lack of
revenue received for the D.A.R.E Program as it was originally budgeted for
$24,000.00, but the amended budget shows $0.00 received. Ms. Guenther stated
that some funds should be received in June but was unsure what that amount
would be so she left it at zero.
7.   Mrs. Yeager expressed concern regarding her recent discovery of the
formation of a SWAT program. Mr. Steffen stated the Public Safety Committee was
just recently informed of the program. Mr. Ellison asked the Police Chief if
any equipment had been purchased. Chief Porter replied that holsters, etc. had
been purchased. Mr. Ellison stated he feels expected to adopt this amended
budget that has expenditures for a program that were not known about by this
council. Mr. Scott discussed the appropriation of forfeitures and seized monies
and explained those funds had to be used for non-budgeted police items. Mr.
Feldhaus questioned Mayor Kriege and Mr. Scott as to their knowledge of this
SWAT program. Mayor Kriege stated he was not aware of training but was somewhat
aware of the SWAT program. Mr. Feldhaus stated that in all the meetings council
has had, especially during the discussions regarding the adoption of the 1999/
2000 budget, no mention was ever made of expenses for a SWAT program. Mayor
Kriege attempted to assure council that the SWAT program was not a secret but
that the topic just never came up. Chief Porter commented that public
advertisement of the city’s inability to handle extreme incidents is not
something that should be broadcast over public access television. He also
advised that the City of Covington would no longer provide any SWAT support due
to a recent occurrence with another local city. He stated that he saw a void
and discussed the SWAT program with the Mayor and the City Administrator. He
maintained that existing funds were used for the recent SWAT expenses. Mr.
Feldhaus reminded Chief Porter and council that the city just funded three
additional officers for the police department and stated he feels they will be
pulled to cover officers absent due to training time for a SWAT unit. He stated
he feels this was trying to be hidden from council. Mrs. Gabbard commented that
there was nothing wrong with the Police Chief using existing money in his
budget for these expenses. Mr. Ellison commented that the formation of a SWAT
unit goes against what local cities and the county is trying to do by
consolidating a lot of public services in order to save the tax payer’s money.
Chief Porter asserted that a SWAT program would be a benefit to the police
department and all citizens.
8.   Mayor Kriege directed Chief Porter to bring back a full report that
includes all funds expended on SWAT related items to council by the next
regular council meeting on July 12, 1999.
9.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to table the second reading of the amended 1998/
99 budget ordinance until the next regularly scheduled council meeting of July
12, 1999 when council received Chief Porter’s report requested by Mayor Kriege.
Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered by three yes votes
and four no votes cast by Mr. Dupps, Mrs. Gabbard, Mr. Steffen with Mayor
Kriege breaking the tie.
10.   Mr. Scott and Mr. Alley advised council that the amended budget needed to
be adopted by July 1, 1999. There was a brief discussion to schedule a special
meeting.
11.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to schedule a special council meeting on June
29, 1999 to review Chief Porter’s report on SWAT expenditures as it relates to
the amended budget. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call vote was
answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
12.   Council concurred that the ordinance relating to Mr. Ferguson’s
annexation into the city would be added to the agenda of the special meeting on
June 29, 1999.
Proposed Development by Fischer Homes on Senour Road
13.   Representatives from Fischer Homes addressed council regarding their
request for a zone change on Senour Road from R1-C to R1-C/RCD. They provided a
summary chart that showed what could be developed using the existing R1-C zone
as compared to the proposed R1-C/RCD. They invited questions and asked they be
allowed to respond to all citizen comments.
14.   Mrs. Yeager expressed her concern with the three parks planned for the
proposed development being maintained by a homeowners’ association. She
requested a provision be included that if the homeowners’ association would go
defunct that the parks be deeded to the city. Fischer representatives pointed
out that two of the three planned parks would be within the city limits of
Independence but the other one would be in the City of Covington. While they
expressed confidence that the homeowners’ association would not become defunct
they agreed to work with the city attorney to make that a provision in the
homeowners’ association deed. Mr. Dupps suggested swapping land with the City
of Covington and Mr. Alley advised that it was possible if Covington would
agree to that. Mrs. Gabbard requested those proposals be in writing.
15.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Fischer what the cost would be to install a pump
station on the north side of the development. Mr. Fischer estimated that the
pump station, force main, etc. would cost $60-65,000.00
16.   Mrs. Gabbard questioned an overlay being considered a zone change. Ms.
Horowitz, legal counsel for Fischer Homes, explained the RCD zone had been
enacted to allow restrictions and that it is a special process that doesn’t
apply to an ordinary zone change.
17.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mayor Kriege how he feels about the proposed zone
change. Mayor Kriege stated that the land would be developed either way;
existing or proposed. While he feels the development will be a strain on the
area he stated preference to the proposed R1—C/RCD as it allows more green
space and frontage than the existing zone.
18.   Mrs. Gabbard asked if the state highway department has plans to widen
Senour Road. Fischer representatives stated they were not aware of any
immediate plans by the state.
19.   At this point, Mayor Kriege requested citizen input. Jay Scharold of
Senour Road commented that the state has had plans for the last thirty years to
widen Senour Road but the budget has never allotted funds – but the project is
in the works.
20.   Mr. Mark Ellison, 37 Carrie Way stated that he is a thirteen year
resident of the city. He reminded council that some of them made campaign
promises last fall that they would control the growth of the city. He stated
the city is not able to handle this growth and the traffic jams on Route 17
confirm this. He feels there should be no more development until the state and
county roads catch up. He commented that the new schools were just built to
help alleviate the overcrowding and they are close to capacity already.
21.   Mr. William Miller of Oliver Road commented that this development would
only add to the overflowing of the Banklick Creek when more trees are
destroyed.
22.   Fischer representatives reminded council that state highway funds are
committed to improve Route 17. They did not feel their development would worsen
the overflowing of the Banklick Creek as the plans call for retention ponds.
They also reported that the Water District is currently working on a project to
install water lines and they will be under construction by next summer. Mr.
Miller requested council confirm that statement with the Water District. Mr.
Feldhaus commented that even if they did confirm it that nothing is written in
stone.
23.   Mr. Ellison advised the residents that council would be voting on one of
the proposals; either the existing R1-C zone or the proposed R1-C/RCD zone. He
stated that Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission has
recommended approval of the zone change. But because the land in question is
currently zoned R1-C it would just be an administrative formality for Fischer
Homes to re-submit the development using the existing zone wherein they can
construct 308 homes.
24.   Discussion centered on the overcrowding at the local schools and that the
Planning Commission does not take the schools into consideration when making
their recommendations on development projects. A comment was made that the
Senour Road development would place children in the Taylor Mill Elementary
school. Mr. Feldhaus cited the current enrollment at some of the local
elementary schools and each school’s capacity enrollment. Ms. Horowitz advised
that KCMP&Z do not take schools into consideration because they have no
authority to do so.
25.   Mr. Ellison also pointed out that the residents are currently being asked
to conserve water because of the lack of adequate water facilities in the area
and the fact that the water district has not kept up with the rapid development
in this part of Kenton County.
26.   Mrs. Gabbard stated that she agrees but that she feels the city doesn’t
have much choice as the property is already zoned residential. Mr. Fischer
advised council he has the legal right to subdivide the property and that they
are asking for approval of a development plan that they feel is far superior to
the existing R1-C zone. Ms. Horowitz commented that the current zoning of R1-
C allows for at least 300 homes, but Fischer Homes, by way of an overlay to the
current zoning, wanted to supply more amenities and variety with the proposed
development.
Motion on Fischer Homes proposed development on Senour Road
27.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to deny the proposed zone change on Senour
Road from R1-C to R1-C/RCD by Fischer Homes for the following reasons:
1.   As elected officials, the city is responsible for the public safety of its
residents. The city conducted its own traffic count at the Route 16/Senour Road
intersection, which indicated a high volume of traffic. Also there is a blind
spot when making a left turn from Senour Road onto Route 16.
2.   Overcrowding at the local schools. It is the responsibility of the city
officials to take into consideration the schools. Presently local schools are
at near capacity and if the overcrowding continues there is a possibility that
students would be bussed out of the community.
3.   Water – the current shortage is cause for a public safety issue. New water
transmission lines need to be installed before more development.
4.   The developer has not been required by the state highway department to
signal the Route 16/Senour Road intersection.
Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Mayor Kriege asked if there was any further
discussion. Mr. Steffen expressed concern that if the current water condition
in the city is inadequate that it could cause low water pressure and pose a
safety problem to fight fires. Mr. Dupps expressed hesitance as he agreed with
other council members concerns but is aware the land can be developed at the
current zoning. Once again, Mr. Feldhaus stressed council’s responsibility for
the public safety of its citizens. Mrs. Gabbard again pointed out that the land
could be developed at the current zone without council approval. Mr. Alley
advised council that it would be merely an administrative function for Fischer
Homes to develop the land under the current zone. Mr. Dupps stated that while
he has many of the same concerns of council and the fact it can be developed at
the current zone he feels the overlay proposal provides recreational areas and
other amenities. He is concerned that what the city ends up with may not look
as good or function as well as the overlay. Mr. Alley once again advised
council that provisions could be worked out in regard to the recreational
facilities being turned over to the city if the homeowners association would
become defunct. Mrs. Yeager stated she agreed with Mr. Dupps and had mixed
emotions on this development. Mayor Kriege stated he concurred with Mrs. Yeager
and Mr. Dupps.
28.   Mayor Kriege called for a roll call vote on the above stated motion by
Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mr. Steffen. Roll call was answered with three yes
votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus, Mr. Steffen and Mr. Ellison and four no votes cast
by Mr. Dupps, Mrs. Yeager, Mrs. Gabbard with Mayor Kriege breaking the tie.
Motion defeated 4-3.
Motion to have a short recess
29.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to take a short recess; seconded by Mr. Dupps.
Motion carried with all ayes.
30.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to resume the meeting; seconded by Mr. Dupps.
Motion carried with all ayes.
Motion to accept R1-C/RCD overlay zone change request by Fischer Homes for
Senour Rd.
31.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to accept the zone change from R1-C to R1-C/RCD
requested by Fischer Homes for the planned Senour Road development with the
following eight conditions for development:
1.   All streets in the development must be 28 feet wide
2.   Development must include retention ponds for water run-off.
3.   Installation of a turn lane on Senour Road onto Route 16 and a turn lane
on Route 16 at the intersection of Senour Road.
4.   First floor brick wrap on all homes.
5.   Two-car attached garages.
6.   Doublewide driveways.
7.   Sidewalks constructed on both sides of the streets built to ADA
specifications.
8.   Provisions made to deed over the parks to the city if the homeowners’
association would become defunct; including the park on the Covington side.
Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. A brief discussion ensued wherein Mr. Fischer
stated he would not agree to three of the conditions listed in the motion. The
three conditions he would not agree to are: first floor brick wrap on all
homes, 28-foot wide streets throughout the development, and the installation of
turn lanes. Mr. Fischer went on to say that while some homes will have a
portion of brick, the brick-wrap condition doesn’t fit the target market this
development is planned for and that the turn lanes are not his responsibility.
Mr. Ellison stated that if the state highway department overruled the city on
that condition then the city would be agreeable to that. Mr. Fischer did agree
to construct 28-foot wide streets on specific sections of the roadway but not
throughout the subdivision. Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Fischer if he was committing
to build all the homes in this subdivision. Mr. Fischer stated that it was a
high probability but would not make that commitment.
32.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Ellison if he were willing to amend his motion to
the conditions that Mr. Fischer would agree to. Mr. Ellison said he would not
amend his motion. Mayor Kriege asked for the vote to be called. Roll call on
the above motion was answered with four yes votes cast by Mr. Ellison, Mrs.
Yeager, Mr. Dupps and Mrs. Gabbard and two no votes cast by Mr. Steffen and Mr.
Feldhaus. Motion carried 4-2.
Motion to Adjourn
33.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.
                     ____________________________________
                     Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 29, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. He began by announcing the following agenda items: proposed
ordinance for the annexation of the Ferguson property at 35 Pelly Road;
proposed ordinance approving a zone change from R1-C to R1-C/RCD with the eight
conditions for the planned development on Senour Road by Fischer Homes; and,
discussion of the amended budget ordinance for fiscal year 1998/99 with a
briefing on a police SWAT program. Mayor Kriege advised all discussions and
actions would be limited to the items on the agenda.
2.   Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard and Mr. Dupps
answered roll call. Council Member Gregory Steffen was absent. Also in
attendance was City Administrator, Gary R. Scott and Paul Alley, City Attorney
sitting in for H. Lawson Walker.
First Reading on the Annexation Ordinance of 35 Pelly Road
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading (in summary) of the
proposed ordinance to annex the Ferguson property located at 35 Pelly Road. Mr.
Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. City
Attorney, Paul Alley read the proposed ordinance.
Discussion/Action regarding the proposed development on Senour Road by Fischer
Homes
4.   Mayor Kriege informed council that two ordinances were before them for
review and possible adoption regarding the proposed development by Fischer
Homes on Senour Road.
Motion for a Brief Recess
5.   Mr. Ellison made a motion for a short recess to give council time to read
the proposed ordinances. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion carried with all
ayes.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to resume the council meeting; seconded by Mr.
Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes.
7.   Mayor Kriege began the discussion by stating that the council members,
with the exception of Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Steffen, met with a representative
of Fischer Homes this past week to preview their proposal.
8.   Mr. Ellison commented that he has met several times and talked at great
length with Fischer representatives. He stated he feels the counteroffer is a
watered down version of the eight conditions council imposed when approving the
zone change requested by Fischer Homes for this property. He went on to say he
is not comfortable with the location of this development and with Mills Road
Park in close proximity to Senour Road there is no longer an incentive to
accept this proposal.
9.   Mr. Feldhaus stated that he expressed at the last special council meeting
that he was opposed to both the old and new proposals due to the small (55-
foot) lot sizes. He expressed concern with the development of a park on the
south side of Senour Road with only seven houses and with 291 houses across the
street he felt there was a safety issue involved with children who would be
crossing that road to use the park. He believes the only reason a park is being
planned for that side of Senour Road is because Fischer Homes is avoiding the
cost of a sewer pump station. Mr. Feldhaus appealed to the other council
members to deny both proposals. He went on to say that to approve this type of
cluster, trailer-park style development, when the city is not landlocked, is
ridiculous.
10.   Mrs. Gabbard questioned the city attorney regarding the difference
between the two proposed ordinances for this development. Mr. Alley advised
that the first ordinance version included the eight conditions outlined in Mr.
Ellison’s motion at the last council meeting on June 22, 1999 wherein the zone
change requested by Fischer Homes would be approved if the conditions were met.
He stated the second ordinance version incorporated the letter of commitment by
Mr. Fischer and some other provisions.
11.   Mayor Kriege commented that all conditions by Mr. Ellison and committed
conditions by Mr. Fischer were laid out at the last council meeting and
incorporated into the two proposed ordinances before them tonight.
Motion to Deny the Proposed Zone Change by Fischer Homes
12.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to turn down the Fischer Homes proposal by
reverting back to the current zone of R1-C. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion.
13.   Mayor Kriege asked if there was any further discussion. Mr. Alley
restated the one proposed ordinance outlined the eight conditions imposed by
council if they chose to grant the proposed zone change.
14.   Mr. Trauth, attorney for Fischer Homes, reminded council that Mr. Fischer
agreed to five of those conditions and certain elements of the other three
conditions. He also stated they superimposed some additional conditions.
15.   Mrs. Gabbard questioned the city attorney regarding guidelines in turning
down this zone change. Mr. Alley stated council needed to state their findings.
16.   Mr. Dupps cautioned the other council members in turning down this zone
change request as Mr. Fischer is offering amenities that are not required. Mr.
Ellison replied that he feels the amenities do not outweigh the drawbacks and
the city needs to look to the future. He stated he agreed with Mr. Feldhaus
that a cluster development is not necessary with an abundance of land in the
city.
17.   Mr. Feldhaus commented that Fischer Homes has proposed this cluster
development because it is more cost effective for them. Once again he voiced
his reasons for his opposition to this development, those being; concern for
the safety of children crossing Senour Road to use the proposed park, small lot
size of 55 feet, and apprehension that Mr. Fischer will not be developing this
subdivision but parceling it out to other developers.
18.   Mayor Kriege stated the Planning Commission has recommend the city
approve this plan and does not feel they would have done so if the plan was
substandard. Mr. Ellison commented that it is just a recommendation and if the
city agrees with that type of development then it is okay with them.
19.   Mrs. Gabbard agreed that Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Ellison had some valid
points. She questioned the Fischer representatives regarding the brick-wrap
condition. Mr. Gorman of Fischer Homes stated that Mr. Fischer would not commit
to brick-wrap and stated that vinyl can be done nicely and maintenance free. He
did state that in all likelihood some homes would have partial brick. And
regarding Mr. Fischer developing the entire subdivision, he stated he would be
the builder depending on which plan was approved by council.
20.   At this time Mayor Kriege asked for a roll call vote on the above stated
motion. Roll call vote was answered with three yes votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus,
Mr. Ellison and Mrs. Yeager and two no votes cast by Mr. Dupps and Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried to turn down the Fischer Homes proposal by reverting
back to the current zone of R1-C.
Motion for a Brief Recess
21.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to take a brief recess; seconded by Mr. Dupps.
Motion carried with all ayes.
22.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to resume the meeting; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard.
Motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion on Amended Budget Ordinance No. 1999-O-06 (with Police SWAT
briefing)
23.   Mayor Kriege informed council that Chief Ed Porter was present to provide
a briefing on the SWAT program per their request at the last council meeting.
24.   Chief Porter gave a presentation on the SWAT program he has formed. He
began by stating he personally has twenty-one years of tactical unit experience
with ten of those years being with a tactical/SWAT unit. He showed a ten-minute
film depicting a swat situation wherein the law enforcement response was poor
and he commented that this situation made law enforcement officials recognize
the need for special tactical units. Chief Porter explained that in the last
three and one-half years since he has been chief, the city has been
experiencing an increase in drug trafficking, domestic violence and barricade/
suicide cases. He stated that during the last twelve months the police
department has experienced three high-risk situations.
25.   Chief Porter stated that currently the City of Covington and the Kentucky
State Police departments have tactical units and the City of Crescent Springs
has a composite unit. He explained that response time would be poor and that he
did not think the use of those units was a viable option for the City of
Independence. He informed council that he feels it would be wrong not to
respond to the need for a tactical unit. He stated that currently six
Independence officers and two Elsmere officers have received SWAT training. He
reported that expenses to date include $1,666.00 for uniforms and $3,913.00 for
other related equipment. Also, state surplus supplies have been received at no
cost to the city. He explained that some of the costs have been partially
offset through forfeiture funds collected.
26.   In closing, Chief Porter stated that he took an oath to lookout for the
citizens’ safety and feels the cost of a single incident could outweigh the
cost of funding the SWAT unit.
27.   Mr. Dupps asked if the SWAT team would be an ad hoc unit to be used as
needed. Chief Porter said they would but would come together for training, etc.
Mr. Feldhaus asked the Chief if he had spoken with Chief Bosse of Covington and
Chief Porter replied that he had. Officer Nichols interjected that other cities
contract with Covington to provide SWAT services as needed. Mr. Feldhaus asked
what other cities paid to contract with Covington. Officer Nichols stated that
it varied and could be as high as $10,000. Mr. Feldhaus stated that he felt
Independence should look into contracting with Covington because the city has
already spent over $5,000 for this program. Mrs. Gabbard questioned how the
city could put a price on what it costs to save a life.
28.   A lengthy discussion ensued regarding the cost of the SWAT program and
the feasibility of contracting with another local agency for this type of
tactical service as the need arises. Mayor Kriege informed council that when
Chief Porter initially discussed this program with him he felt it was an
important endeavor and gave his support. He stated that with the addition of so
many new households this is a public safety program the police department needs
to develop with backup help from the other agencies. Mr. Scott asked Chief
Porter what the annual maintenance cost would be for this program. Chief Porter
stated that much of the equipment purchased can have dual purposes and
estimated an additional $2,000-$3000 to complete the purchase of tactical
equipment. After that, there will be minimal maintenance, mainly four hours of
training per month per officer. Mrs. Yeager questioned whether there was a
mutual aid agreement with the City of Elsmere. Mr. Ellison asked Chief Porter
if the Northern Kentucky Police Chiefs Association had discussed a SWAT
program. Chief Porter stated that would be inappropriate. Mr. Ellison stated he
felt a Northern Kentucky unit should be formed before forming another
individual unit. Mr. Feldhaus suggested contracting with the City of
Covington’s SWAT team for a couple of years to get an idea of what the costs
will be and whether or not it would be practical to form our own unit. Once
again, Chief Porter stated that in the last year there have been six possible
incidents where a SWAT team could have been used.
29.   Mr. Dupps questioned Chief Porter about the four hours of training needed
each month. Chief Porter clarified that the four hours of training would be in
addition to the in-service requirement.
30.   Mrs. Gabbard restated that the money spent for this program was from
budgeted funds and she did not see a problem with that. Mr. Feldhaus reminded
council that the police department budget for the 99/00 fiscal year increased
from $1.3M to $1.5M. Mr. Ellison stated that during the Planning Session held
in January the SWAT program was never mentioned. He stated the program should
have been a long-term plan for the city.
31.   Mayor Kriege stated that when he spoke with Chief Porter regarding this
program last winter he told him he would support it as long as it was within
the realms of his budget. He stated that discussion of the SWAT unit was not
intentionally hidden from council and apologized for failing to discuss this
with council. Mr. Feldhaus stated he believed Mayor Kriege did not consciously
withhold this information. Mayor Kriege stated the Chief felt the formation of
this program fell under his realm.
32.   Mayor Kriege suggested having finance/budget meetings prior to the
regular council meetings. He also suggested forming a Tactical Unit Committee
and asked Mr. Dupps, Mrs. Yeager and Mr. Feldhaus to serve on this committee.
He stated he would like to get this resolved and suggested working with the
City of Elsmere to see what resources they could provide. Mr. Feldhaus stated
he would like to see what other options are available. Mr. Ellison agreed the
city should try to tap other resources. He also commented the city would be
remiss to overlook the skills of Chief Porter.
33.   Mayor Kriege instructed council of the need to amend the 98/99 budget and
pressed for a conclusion toward this disagreement.
Motion for a Second Reading of Ordinance No. 1999-O-06 to Amend the 1998/99
Budget
34.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance No. 1999-O-
06 to amend the 1998/99 Budget. Mrs. Gabbard second the motion. Roll call vote
was answered with all ayes. Paul Alley read the proposed ordinance.
35.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 1999-O-06; seconded by
Mrs. Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
36.   After a brief discussion wherein Amy Guenther, Finance Director, pointed
out that the $15,000 revenue and expense items for the Community Crime
Prevention grant was inadvertently omitted from the first and second readings
of the amended budget ordinance it was decided to have an emergency reading of
the ordinance.
37.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to have an emergency reading of the proposed
Ordinance No. 1999-O-06 to amend the 1998/99 budget in order to include the
revenue and expense line of $15,000 for the Community Crime Prevention grant.
Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried and Mr. Alley read proposed Ordinance No. 1999-O-06.
38.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 1999-O-06 as read;
seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried.
Adjournment
39.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 9:03 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
__________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JULY 12, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Rev. Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave the
invocation. Council members Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard, and
Eric Dupps answered roll call. Council members Gregory Steffen and Steve
Feldhaus were absent. Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Steffen were out of town. Also in
attendance were Gary Scott, City Administrator and H. Lawson Walker, City
Attorney.
2.   Mayor Kriege recognized and welcomed two groups in the audience, the first
being Boy Scout Troop 779 from St. Pius in Edgewood who have members that
reside in Independence. The boy scouts were observing the meeting to earn their
citizenship merit badge. The second group was from Northern Kentucky
University. Professor Bill Dorsey’s Local Government Management class was
observing the meeting as a class assignment.
Approval of Council Minutes
3.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to adopt the minutes of the June 7, 1999 council
meeting as amended. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Motion carried with all
ayes.
4.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt the minutes of the June 22, 1999 special
council meeting as submitted. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Motion carried
with all ayes.
5.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to adopt the minutes of the June 29, 1999
special council meeting as submitted. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
6.   There was a large group of residents in the audience to speak in
opposition of the planned development of the land at the corner of Cox and
Taylor Mill Roads by James Berling on behalf of the Scheben Group. Mayor Kriege
stated that the city was aware the Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning
Commission had approved the zone change and informed the residents that Mr.
Berling has not approached the city regarding this matter. Mayor Kriege went on
to say that the city will have sixty days to respond before the rezoning
actually takes effect and the city will review the issue and make a decision by
the regular council meeting in August (8-2-99).
7.   City Attorney, Lawson Walker, advised the residents that the city would,
by law, be unable to override the Planning Commission’s decision unless, as an
appellate body reviewing their recommendation, was able to find something wrong
– a fact that would cause the decision to be overturned. Mr. Walker reiterated
that the city is given a sixty-day interval to review the recommendation by the
Planning Commission.
8.   Spokespeople for the Jimae Avenue area that voiced opposition to the
planned development of ninety-eight condominiums by Berling included: Ron
Flack, John Little, Eric Thomas, William Ruzinok, Donald Barnett, Pat Yeager
and Doug Davidson. The residents major concerns were the increase in the
traffic at that intersection which is already a problem, unsafe ingress and
egress points, fear that their property values will decrease, an overall change
of the community’s environment, and being surrounded by more multi-family
buildings in a single family residential area. Mr. Ruzinok was concerned that
members on the Planning Commission do not live in Independence yet are able to
dictate what can be built in another community. A comment was made that Mr.
Berling has informally met with some of the Jimae area residents regarding the
possibility of tapping into sewer lines that will be available (for a fee) if
the development is constructed. Mr. Barnett stated that while he is not against
progress he felt ninety-eight units was too much and expressed concern that the
development would become low-income housing.
9.   The discussion turned to the increasing problem with vandalism and theft
in the Jimae Avenue area. Residents stated that paychecks have been stolen from
mailboxes, new trashcans have been stolen, and homes have been broken into.
Chief Porter attempted to address their concerns and encouraged their aiding
the police department in deterring the crime in the area. Mr. Dupps and Mr.
Ellison encouraged the residents to form a Neighborhood Watch Program. Chief
Porter stated that Sgt. Bailey would be glad to meet with them to form this
program.
10.   In closing, Mayor Kriege advised the residents that this re-zoning issue
would probably be on the August 2, 1999 council meeting and encouraged them to
attend that meeting.
Second Reading of Ordinance No. 1999-O-07 Annexing 35 Pelly Road
11.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance No. 1999-O-
07 annexing the Ferguson property at 35 Pelly. Road. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
12.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 1999-O-07 annexing 35
Pelly Road. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call vote 4-0 in favor;
motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
13.   Mr. Ellison commented that the Battleridge Subdivision is not in
compliance with the city’s street lighting ordinance wherein new developments
must install street lighting. He requested the city make the developer aware of
this ordinance. He also reported street lights out on Madison Pike near the
post office and at the Battleridge Subdivision.
14.   Mr. Ellison also stated he has noticed several parking violations
especially with tractor-trailers parking on the weekends and overnight at
several area business lots. He cited Cherokee IGA, Kroger’s at the Independence
Towne Center, the street behind Save-A-Lot and the lot at the Sunoco as the
problem areas. Mr. Barbian replied that he put violation notices on some of the
vehicles and advised they would be towed when the notice expires. There was a
brief discussion about the feasibility of towing tractor-trailers. Chief Porter
stated Ken’s Towing could be contacted to do this. Mr. Scott asked Chief Porter
to have the patrol officers keep an eye on this on the weekends. Mr. Barbian
stated some of the vehicles have current tags but seem to be abandoned. Mayor
Kriege assured Mr. Ellison this matter would be monitored.
15.   Mr. Ellison also requested an executive session at the end of this
meeting to discuss property acquisition and pending litigation.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
16.   Mr. Scott reported that Fifth Third Bank would like the city to enter
into an agreement for the management of the city’s liquid assets. He stated a
copy of the agreement was provided to them for review in their council packets.
Mr. Ellison voiced objection to paragraph eleven that releases Fifth Third from
all liability and asked the city attorney if this was legal. Mr. Walker stated
it was not. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Walker to review the document and make a
recommendation at the next council meeting.
17.   Mr. Scott introduced Jeff Smith, the new public works employee. He also
stated that another public works employee would begin work on Monday.
Kevin Barbian – Building/Zoning Administrator
18.   Mr. Barbian asked if council had any question regarding the May Building
Permit Report submitted to them in their council packets. He stated there were
twenty-nine single family permits and twenty-two other permits (decks,
accessory buildings, etc.) issued for May.
19.   Mayor Kriege stated he would like to schedule a meeting with the Miller’s
on Oliver Road regarding their problem with the neighborhood dogs.
Jeff Smith – Public Works Department
20.   Mr. Smith reported to council the many jobs he has undertaken since he
began two weeks ago. Some of projects he has and is working on include: the
purchase of a vehicle (pick-up truck), purchase of miscellaneous equipment,
installed benches in Hartland Park, reorganized the shelter storage room at
Staggs Park in order to provide some office space, cleared accumulated signage
from the rear of the Administration Building, and installed the flags along
Madison Pike for the 4th of July Celebration. He also stated that he is
handling various complaints and spending time with Mr. Briggs, Mr. Scott, and
some council members who are helping him to become familiar with the city
boundaries.
21.   Mr. Scott stated the city has instituted a work-request order system and
requested everyone’s cooperation in filling out a form if there is a task that
needs attention. He stated this would enable Mr. Smith to arrange a work
schedule and prioritize jobs.
Cardinal Engineering – Dan Briggs
22.   Mr. Briggs gave a status report on the asphalt repairs currently being
done in the Beechgrove area and the concrete repairs in the Hunters Green
Subdivision and in the Sylvan Drive and Sherwood Drive areas. He stated the
work will continue this week and next.
23.   Mayor Kriege asked how the sidewalk review project was coming. Mr. Briggs
stated it should be complete in about a month. Mayor Kriege asked to have it
ready by the next regular council meeting (8-2-99). Mr. Scott commented that a
pressing need for sidewalks was in the Madison Pike/Sylvan Drive area and asked
Mr. Briggs to concentrate on that section of the city.
24.   Mr. Dupps mentioned the need for sidewalks near Memorial Park and was
concerned that ADA compliance should be taken into consideration when making
curb cuts. There was a brief discussion regarding the need for ADA curb cuts in
several subdivisions in the city.
25.   Also, Mr. Dupps asked Mr. Briggs to elaborate more on his mention of
mailbox installation requirements in his monthly report, and possibly adopting
an ordinance. Mr. Briggs stated that the post office doesn’t have any set
requirements except for height and thought the city may want to dictate other
location requirements. Mr. Ellison stated that he felt sure the post office has
these regulations in place. Mr. Briggs stated that the Independence postmaster
advised that there was only a height requirement mandated by the post office.
Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Barbian to speak with the postmaster regarding this
matter and report back to council
Police Department – Ed Porter
26.   Chief Porter commented on the July 4th Fireworks display sponsored by the
city by saying it was a spectacular show. He also reported there would be a
“crime prevention extravaganza” at 3:00 p.m. on July 13, 1999 at the Beechgrove
Clubhouse. The event will include the I.D. Program for Children and others with
Special Needs, a bicycle rodeo to instruct children on proper safety
techniques, a fire safety message presented by the Independence Fire District
and a special visit from McGruff the crime-fighting dog.
Scheduling of Committee Meetings
27.   The following committee meetings were scheduled:
Budget/Finance will meet on July 28, 1999 at 4:30 p.m. at the Admin. Building
Personnel Policy Committee will meet on July 21, 1999 at 5:00 p.m. at the
Admin. Building
Public Works Committee will meet on July 27, 1999 at 4:30 p.m. at the Admin.
Building
Tactical/SWAT Committee will meet July 20, 1999 at 5:00 p.m. at the Admin
Building with an invitation to the City of Elsmere so they will have
representation on the committee
Public Safety Committee will meet on July 19, 1999 at 5:30 p.m. at the Police
Department.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
28.   Mayor Kriege also commented that the July 4th Fireworks display was an
exciting event for the city and stated that next year plans are being made to
include more events such as a parade and race.
29.   Mayor Kriege informed council that there is a current vacancy on the
Board of Adjustments with the resignation of long-time member, Preston Tillett.
He recommended appointing former council member, Scott Holten to fill that
vacancy and requested a motion to read an executive order appointing Mr. Holten
to the Board of Adjustments.
Executive Order No. 1999-EO-08 – Appointment of Scott Holten to Bd. Of
Adjustments
30.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to read the executive order appointing Mr.
Holten to the Board of Adjustments. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes. The city attorney read the order.
31.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 1999-EO-08
appointing Mr. Holten to the Board of Adjustments. Mr. Yeager seconded the
motion. A brief discussion ensued where in Mrs. Gabbard stated she would like
to see the vacancies on city boards opened to the public. She stated that if
these openings were announced to the public interested persons would apply for
the seats. Mayor Kriege replied that it is sometimes difficult to find enough
civic-minded volunteers to fill the many community service seats on these
boards. He commented that this type of appointment falls under his executive
authority and he feels Mr. Holten is very knowledgeable of the issues handled
by the Board of Adjustments and will be an asset to the board. Roll call vote
was answered with three yes votes and one no vote cast by Mrs. Gabbard because
she would like to see the public more involved. Motion carried 3-1 in favor.
Executive Session
32.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to enter into an executive session for the
discussion of possible property acquisition and pending litigation according to
KRS 61.810 (b), (c). Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion carried with all
ayes.
33.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to resume the regular session; seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
34.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 8:45 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
AUGUST 2, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard, Eric
Dupps, Steve Feldhaus and Greg Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
were Gary Scott, City Administrator and H. Lawson Walker, City Attorney.
Presentation of Proclamation
2.   Mayor Kriege presented a Proclamation from the city to John Crawford for
his Eagle Scout Achievement. John Crawford was not able to attend the meeting.
Adoption of Council Minutes
3.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to accept the minutes of the July 12, 1999 council
meeting as amended. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Motion carried with 5 ayes
and 1 abstain by Mr. Feldhaus.
Scheben Group – Zone Change for Property at Cox and Taylor Mill Roads
4.   Mr. Feldhaus presented a portion of the taped meeting of July 1, 1999 of
the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission regarding the request
for a zone change at the Taylor Mill & Cox Road property by the Scheben Group.
Privileges of the Floor
5.   Gail Wallace of 6396 Jimae Court spoke about her feelings on the zone
change request by the Scheben Group. She stated that her property adjoins this
property and she is not happy about having an apartment complex built in her
back yard and she also felt there was a danger now, at the corner of Cox Road
and Taylor Mill Rd because of a rise in the road going west before you get to
Jimae. She felt an increase in traffic would create more accidents even if they
do install a turn lane.
6.   William Ruzinok stated the petition that was turned in has a lot of
complaints about water pressure on Jimae and he feels that is another reason
the city does not need 96 units built on this land. Mr. Feldhaus advised Mr.
Ruzinok that any water problems in that area needs to be reported to Taylor
Mill Utilities.
7.   John Little at 6413 Jimae stated he prefers single-family homes as opposed
to an apartment complex.
8.   Don Barnett stated he fears that this apartment complex will turn into low
income housing, increased traffic will be a problem and water and sewage run
off will be a problem. He stated that after viewing the tape of the Kenton
County Municipal Planning and Zoning meeting he feels they are ignoring the
comprehensive plan and he feels that is a good reason for the city not to
approve the zone change.
9.   Mr. Feldhaus wanted council to be aware that if they vote to change the
zoning to R-2 it does not mean that only condominiums will be built. Once the
zone is changed there will be nothing to restrict the developer from putting in
apartments if they want to.
10.   Mayor Kriege stated that he feels Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission is not following the comprehensive plan with regard to density.
Mayor Kriege entertained a motion to present council with a resolution to
approve or reject the zone change.
11.   City Attorney, Mr. Walker advised council that they must follow KRS,
chapter 100 laws and what occurred at the planning commission public hearing
meeting. Mrs. Gabbard asked the city attorney if council decides to reject the
zone change, would council have to give a reason for the rejection. Mr. Walker
advised Mrs. Gabbard that council would need to find a reason to reject the
zone change. Mr. Walker said he tends to agree with Northern Kentucky Municipal
Planning & Zoning attorney, Mr. Schneider that the legal issue is a single
family residence with approximately 5 units per acre, and a multi-family zone
at 10 units per acre and the planning commission staff condition was to impose
the condition to go to 7 units per acre to match the comprehensive plan. Mr.
Walker stated that they removed that condition from the staff’s recommendation
and went to 10. Mr. Walker felt there was room for this council to conclude
what it wants to conclude if that is their desire.
12.   Kevin Barbian, Zoning Administrator advised Mayor and council that this
zone change request has not been to the planning and zoning sub-committee. He
stated he was under the impression that no decisions would be made until after
that meeting. Mayor Kriege advised Kevin Barbian that council has to act within
45 days and the next council meeting is not until September 13th. He stated the
concerned residents in the audience were told that action would be taken at
this meeting
13.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to draft a resolution rejecting the zone
change at the corner of Taylor Mill and Cox Road for the following reasons: the
zone change is not compatible with the comprehensive plan, overcrowding of
schools, increase of traffic when the density is increased, inadequate water
pressure, infrastructure, and the curb cut is not adequate. Mr. Dupps seconded
the motion. Mayor Kriege asked the city attorney if the city could apply for a
zone change to make it a certain zone. Mr. Walker advised the city could go
through the same process as a planner would to get a zone change. Roll call was
answered with all ayes.
14.   Mayor Kriege asked if anyone from the audience had anything else to
discuss. A resident did ask if the meeting on Wednesday to discuss the Mills
Road development was still scheduled. Mr. Scott stated it was and it will take
place at the Kenton County Court House due to an interest from the public.
Motion to Recess
15.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to take a five-minute recess. Mr. Feldhaus
seconded the motion. The motion was carried with all ayes.
16.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion for the meeting to return to session. Mr.
Ellison seconded the motion. The motion was passed with all ayes.
OLD BUSINESS
Renaming the Park in Hartland Subdivision
17.   Mayor Kriege stated they have the issue of renaming the park at Hartland
Subdivision. He stated this recommendation came from the Independence
Recreation Committee. Mr. Ellison made a motion to rename the park to
Independence Park. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Mr. Steffen stated that
Independence Park was a bland name. Mr. Feldhaus asked if he had any
suggestions. Mr. Steffen suggested the name of Marshall Hopperton Park. Ms.
Yeager stated they are going to take care of that at Memorial Park. They are
planning on having memorials for the policemen and fire department and also for
people that have donated their time to the developing of the parks and also war
memorials. Mayor Kriege added that he liked that idea better because it gave
the city an opportunity to recognize the people that have died. He felt that
memorials were better than naming parks after people. Roll call was answered
with 5 yeas and 1 nay cast by Mr. Steffen.
NEW BUSINESS
First Reading of Ordinance to set Tax Rate
18.   Mayor Kriege stated the next item of business is a first reading of a
proposed Ordinance for setting the 1999 tax rate for the City of Independence.
Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have the ordinance read. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. The motion was carried with all ayes. City attorney, Mr. Walker read
the ordinance in summary. Mayor Kriege stated a second reading of that
ordinance will take place at the September 13, 1999 council meeting.
First Reading of Ordinance to set Trash Assessment
19.   Mayor Kriege stated the next item of new business pertains to a first
reading of a proposed ordinance setting the 1999 trash assessment rate. Mr.
Scott advised council that this rate is based on the contract we have with
Rumpke and it was not debatable unless council chooses to break the contract.
Mr. Feldhaus asked if this was the third year of a five-year contract. Mr.
Scott noted it was.
20.    Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have the ordinance read. Mr. Steffen
seconded the motion. The motion was carried with all ayes. City Attorney,
Mr.Walker read the ordinance in summary. Mr. Ellison asked if there was a cut
off of 4 units per dwelling and after that are the residents on their own for
having their trash picked up. Mr. Walker stated that the contract reads “each
unit of any building which is used for residential purposes no matter how many
units there are.” Mr. Ellison stated that there used to be a maximum of 4 units
and after that you would have to go to a dumpster service which was more
costly. Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Scott to look into this matter for the next
council meeting.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator-Gary Scott
21.   Mr. Scott stated that the Finance Committee has reviewed and recommended
the Investment Policy enclosed in council packets. It, in essence, establishes
an investment policy for the city according to the KRS 66.480. We will not
invest in Mortgaged Backed and Derivative Securities and it gives the maturity
parameters, allows the finance committee to meet once a year to review, allows
the Mayor and City Administrator to oversee the investment of funds, no more an
5% of the portfolio may be invested in any single issuer except the U.S.
Government and its agencies or repurchase agreements Collateralized by U.S.
Government Securities, and the city use qualified investment agents under KRS
91A.060 and 66.480. The finance committee along with Amy Guenther and members
of Fifth Third Bank has reviewed these guidelines. He also stated this policy
has been reviewed by Mr. Walker.
22.    Ms. Yeager made a motion to adopt the Investment Policy and Guidelines.
Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. The motion was passed with all ayes.
23.   Mr. Scott stated the next item on the agenda was Resolution 1999-R-06. He
stated this was “boiler plate” language that comes right out of the manual for
applications for Community Development Block Grants. The city is reapplying
this year for funding for the Independence Senior Center. Last year the city
was not selected to receive funds for this.
24.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read and accept Resolution 1999-R-06. Mr.
Ellison seconded the motion. The motion was passed with all ayes. City
Attorney, Walker read the Resolution in summary.
Building/Zoning Administrator-Kevin Barbian
25.   Mr. Barbian advised mayor and council that 71 new building permits had
been issued for the month of July probably due to the increase in sewer tap in
fees being increased to $1,800.00 by the Sanitation District.
26.   Mr. Barbian gave an update on trucks being parked on vacant lots around
the city. He stated that he had received a letter from Cherokee IGA, not
Cherokee Bowl at the present time, giving him approval to tow any vehicles off
of their lot. Mr. Feldhaus asked if there were laws regarding hazardous
materials being stored on these trucks that are being parked in the city. If
these trucks do not have a plaqer showing what they are carrying this could be
a hazard for the residents in the area. Chief Porter stated that we are dealing
with federal regulations as far as trucks being parked on private property. Mr.
Feldhaus asked Mr. Walker if the city could draft an ordinance to prohibit this
type of action. Mr. Walker stated you couldn’t interfere with a trucks right to
come in and out of the city. Mr. Walker advised is it hard to regulate private
property. Chief Porter stated the problem is the trucks are parking on the
Cherokee Bowl side of the parking lot. He stated that the zoning ordinance
stated we have the right to tow without the permission of the property owner.
Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Barbian to also get a letter to the owner of the trim
shop at the corner of Taylor Mill and Cox Road regarding tractors being parked
there.
27.   Mr. Barbian reported he is also in the process of revoking the building
permit at 4011 Thomas Drive since no activity has taken place for 6 months and
will also be asking the Board of Adjustment, to revoke the conditional use
permit for a day care at the same address.
28.   Mr. Feldhaus stated he received info in his packet about the deviation at
Lakefield Subdivision regarding the asphalt and a moisture density test. Mr.
Scott advised Mr. Feldhaus that they are looking into that. He stated that even
though it was outside of what they liked, it was still in the parameters and it
was okay.
29.   Mayor Kriege asked about the site distance at Battle Ridge Subdivision on
Bristow Road. Mr. Feldhaus asked if they were in the process of correcting the
problem. Mr. Scott said they were not. Mr. Feldhaus asked if the city was going
to stop the building permits in Battle Ridge. Mr. Scott stated that the state
was asked to do some corrections there and the state turned down the request to
make any changes. Mr. Scott stated there is a sight distance problem on Bristow
Road by Biz Cain’s farm. Mr. Scott asked Mr. Walker if the city could stop any
building permits if it is approved under the planning and zoning commission and
it is within the zone, because of the site distance problem. Mr. Walker stated
that it would be in the jurisdiction of the state and not the city because
Bristow Road is a state road. Mr. Feldhaus stated the access point would be
under the direction of the developer. Mr. Scott stated that the planning
commission is aware of this problem. Mr. Feldhaus asked if the city was going
to permit continued building with this problem. Mayor Kriege stated the city
should follow up with the planning commission on this violation and stop the
building permits until the city can get some action.
Police Department-Chief Porter
30.   Chief Porter reported that the police department has scheduled three
community meetings for the month of August. The first will be held at the
Beechgrove Clubhouse on August 3rd at 7:00 p.m. and the topic will be school
and bus safety. The next meeting scheduled will be on August 11th at Wynnbrook
Clubhouse at 6:00 p.m. and the topic will also be school and bus safety and on
August 15th at 1:00 p.m. at Kroger’s in the town center they will be having the
personal photo ID program along with a bicycle rodeo and the fire department
will also being attending with a fire safety presentation.
31.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Chief Porter and Mayor Kriege if the city could
designate the fire department as a cooling center for residents due to the
extreme temperatures that we are having. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Scott to talk
with the chairman of the fire district about this matter.
32.   Chief Porter reported that the police department has received a grant for
$20,000.00 for Domestic and Family Violence Enforcement. He stated this will
assist in training to help respond better to these problems.
Public Works-Jeff Smith
33.   Jeff Smith welcomed our new employee, George Pegg to the Public Works
Department. Mr. Smith stated projects completed to date are adding more gravel
to the emergency road at Sterling Staggs Park, repairing shingles on the
restroom and shelter, completing asphalt projects throughout the city,
completing their new office and work area at the shelter building, purchasing a
new pickup truck and tools needed, and have installed the concrete bumpers at
the park and ride lot. Mr. Smith stated they would be installing a concrete pad
for a shelter area at the park and ride for residents to get out of the weather
while waiting on the bus. He will have an update report at the next council
meeting.
Cardinal Engineering-Dan Briggs
34.   Mr. Briggs reported that the asphalt project is 99% complete and the
concrete project is 50% complete. He stated Hunters Green Drive is closed to
through traffic for storm drainage repairs. He stated that it would be about
ten days before repairs are totally complete and those repairs could cost an
additional $20,000.00.
35.   Discussion was about an old pond behind Gunstock. Mr. Briggs suggested a
drainage study be done to see if the pond is needed. Ms. Yeager asked Dan
Briggs to give the city a price on this so something can be done. Mr. Feldhaus
asked Mr. Briggs to bring back to the next council meeting a price on digging
out the pond and a price on eliminating the pond. Mr. Scott stated that whether
or not it was designed as a retention basin it has become one over the years
and it will eventually affect the resident homes down stream and we have enough
drainage problems there without creating a new one. Mr. Briggs advised council
and mayor that repair costs to the pond would be determined as based on whether
or not the pond was actually needed.
36.   Mr. Briggs reported that Clubhouse Drive has had 18 tons of asphalt added
to the street where it was needed. He stated asphalt was more cost effective
because Clubhouse is on a 2 to 3 year rebuild cycle. He stated that he met with
a mud jacking company and they are going to pump some concrete under Falcon
Ridge Drive because after 4 years the panels are starting to break which is not
good in such a short period of time.
37.   Mr. Feldhaus asked if the storm sewers had been repaired in Beechgrove.
Mr. Scott stated the okay had been given 2 or 3 weeks ago.
38.   Mr. Briggs stated the sidewalks from Simon Kenton to Summit View Schools
would cost around $800,000.00 to install. He stated a ten-year plan could be
made up and start with the repairs of sidewalks in the downtown area. He added
we could apply for grants to help. Mr. Feldhaus stated that the city does not
seem to have any luck with grants for sidewalks. Mr. Briggs stated the
Historical Preservation might be able to help with the downtown area. Mr. Scott
stated he had directed Cardinal Engineering to give the city a 10-year plan so
the city can budget each year the appropriate monies needed. Mayor Kriege asked
the staff to look at how Florence is paying for their downtown renovations. Mr.
Feldhaus noted maybe the city needs to pass an ordinance requiring the property
owner to be responsible for their share of the sidewalks. Mayor Kriege added
maybe there is a shared funding source to be looked at. Mayor Kriege stated
that maybe we could look at a shared cost approach with the citizens to repair
or replace their sidewalks. Mayor Kriege added the public works department
could help out due to it being such a big project.
39.   Mr. Feldlhaus asked Mr. Briggs if he had drawings of the pocket areas
that were not included in the Fowler Creek Project. Mr. Scott stated that he
has talked to Mr. Eger at the Sanitation District about the pocket areas and
there is a process you can go through to get city sewage. He stated they are
willing to come to the city and hold a public meeting for the citizens to
address this and explain the process to them. Mayor Kriege stated that he has
spoke to residents from Madison Pike, Roselawn and a few other areas about
applying for sewers. He told them he would be glad to help them but was not
sure on how to go about this so he had Mr. Scott meet with Mr. Eger from the
Sanitation District on how to inform the citizens on getting sewers.
H. Lawson Walker, City Attorney
40.   Mr. Walker stated he had a letter outlining the status of all litigation
the city is in right now and council may call the office at any time if they
have questions regarding that. He stated he was asked to prepare a Resolution
regarding the old fire department building. Mr. Feldhaus stated this is a
Resolution requesting the Mayor to enter into negotiations with the Fire
District concerning the building next door to see what it would take to get
possession of the building.
41.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have the Resolution read and approved. Mr.
Ellison seconded the motion. Mrs. Gabbard asked if this was to lease or buy the
building. Mayor Kriege stated it was a Resolution to negotiate a lease or
otherwise use portions or all of the premises. Mr. Feldhaus added that if in
fact it were a purchase he would have to bring it back to council for approval.
Roll call vote was answered with four ayes and two nays cast by Mr. Steffen and
Mrs. Gabbard. Mayor Kriege asked if Ms. Yeager should be voting on this since
she was a member of the Fire District Board. Mr. Lawson noted it was her
decision to vote on the matter.
Budget & Finance Reports
42.   Mr. Scott stated he had already given the investment policy guidelines.
43.   Mr. Scott stated the new tax rate of 1.55 the city will net approximately
$762,000.00 this year which is an increase of a little bit more than was
budgeted, and the compensating rate amount would have been $697,000.00, which
was lower than budgeted. The compensating rate would have been 4% above.
Personnel & Administration
44.   Nothing to report.
Planning & Zoning
45.   A meeting was scheduled for Wednesday August 3, 1999. Mr. Barbian stated
the topics on the agenda were Mr. Fornash of the Scheben Group for the 137
acres on Mills Road, building permit increase, Tom Kiser proposing additional
two-family residences at Bristow Meadows and the Dress Company proposing an RC-
D overlay for the continuing development at Lakefield Subdivision.
Public Safety
46.   Mr. Dupps stated the meeting scheduled for next Monday has been
cancelled. Mr. Steffen asked why it was necessary to set up a separate Tactical
Committee when the Public Safety Committee could take care of it. Mayor Kriege
advised it was an executive decision he felt was necessary. He did not think
the Tactical Committee had anything to do with the Public Safety Committee.
Public Works
47.   Mr. Feldhaus stated the sidewalks and pond have already been discussed.
Mr. Feldhaus asked if the Buten Brothers from Apple Valley are coming back
asking the city to maintain that street. Mr. Scott advised they were. Mr.Scott
had Mr. Briggs look at the street back in the spring to see if it was up to
code. Mr. Barbian advised council certain requirements would have to be met
before it could be maintained by the city.
Mayor’s Report-Thomas M. Kriege
48.   Mayor Kriege stated the Tactical Swat Committee would be meeting on
August 9th at the city building.
49.   Mr. Ellison advised that there would be a Public Forum on August 10th at
Simon Kenton High School to discuss the new state road from Harris Pike to
Nicholson.
Executive Order No. 1999-EO-09-Appointment of Dan Wormald to Bd. Of Adjustment
51.   Mayor Kriege recommended the appointment of Dan Wormald as a new member
to the Board of Adjustments to replace Tom Brockman, who resigned the position.
52.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read the Executive Order appointing Dan
Wormald to the Board. Ms. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call vote was
answered. The motion passed with all ayes.
Executive Session
53.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to go into Executive Session to discuss
personnel and pending litigation. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. The motion
passed with all ayes. Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to resume the regular session;
seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion was carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
54.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion
was carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 10:20 p.m.
__________________________________
Thomas Kriege, Mayor
_________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
_________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 13, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Eric Dupps and Greg Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
were Gary Scott, City Administrator and H. Lawson Walker, City Attorney.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the regular
meeting of August 2, 1999 as submitted. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Motion to Reject Zone Change Application by Clint Fornash
3.   Mayor Kriege informed the audience that Mr. Fornash has withdrawn his
request to re-zone his property on Mills Road. Mr. Walker informed council that
this withdrawal of the zone change application is before them and recommends
they make a formal acceptance.
4.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to reject zone change application number Z-99-
07-10-1424R based on the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission’s
recommendation to deny the change. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call
vote was unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Mr. Ehmet Hayes, 870 Bristow Road, spoke in defense of the RCD Overlay
Zone, which the city has made application to the Kenton County Municipal
Planning & Zoning Commission for a text amendment to the Zoning Ordinance to
add provisions to discontinue its use. Mr. Hayes stated that he is a
professional architect and mainly designs commercial building. He stated that
the RCD Overlay Zone, when used properly, is a good plan and perhaps the
original intents could be incorporated in the Comprehensive Plan when it is
updated next year. He went on to say that the overlay reserves greenspace and
landscape features that are being destroyed otherwise. He feels that a
vehicular problem is occurring because it is becoming necessary to get in a car
to go to parks and other green space areas. He stated there was a lot of
comments at the Area Planning Commission meeting and again, reiterated the
overlay zone is a great tool when used properly. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Hayes
if he would be willing to serve on a committee to help formulate the
Comprehensive Plan for the next update in the year 2001. Mr. Hayes agreed to
serve on a planning committee.
6.   Mr. Wayne Bridges, 732 Scott Avenue, Covington, Kentucky, stated that he
was present at this meeting to speak on the Fornash property zone change issue
but since that matter has been withdrawn he stated he would like to comment on
the RCD Overlay Zone issue. He spoke in opposition to this type of zone because
the city is developing public parks for the resident’s use and objects to
subdivision developers designating unbuildable hillsides as parks. He also
commented that most Homeowner Association’s don’t work, with Beechgrove being
the only exception.
7.   Mayor Kriege stated that he concurred with council and feels the city
should begin planning these types of developments for the future.
8.   Mr. Jeffrey J. Jarboe, 10174 Marshall Road, submitted to council a three
page written document outlining the reasons to deny the zone change request by
Clint and Loraine Fornash et al. Some of the reasons included: public safety
due to increased traffic, water run-off flooding, infrastructure inadequacies,
and the overcrowding of local schools.
9.   Mr. Dupps commented that he agrees with Mr. Hayes regarding the RCD
overlay. He would like to see as much greenspace reserved as possible but would
like it to be a benefit to the city. He went on to say that the infrastructure
was not in place for the proposed locations that have recently been chosen for
these types of developments.
10.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Jarboe if he would volunteer to sit on the
Comprehensive Plan update committee that the Mayor would like to assemble. Mr.
Jarboe replied that he would. Mayor Kriege asked those interested in serving on
this committee to leave their name with the City Clerk.
11.   Mrs. Gabbard stated that the current city parks are centrally located and
accessible to all residents and encouraged involvement
First Reading of Proposed Ordinance to discontinue the RCD Overlay Zone & Flag
Lots
12.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to provide provisions to discontinue the RCD overlay zone and to
prohibit flag lots. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. The City Attorney, Mr.
Walker read the ordinance.
Second Reading of Ordinance No. 1999-O-08 Setting the 1999 Tax Rate
13.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance No. 1999-O-
08 setting the 1999 real estate and personal property tax rate. Mr. Steffen
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. The City Attorney, Mr.
Walker read the ordinance.
14.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 1999-O-08 as read;
seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor.
Second Reading of Ordinance No. 1999-O-09 Setting the 1999 Trash Assessment
Rate
15.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to assess the trash rate for 1999; seconded by Mr. Ellison. A
discussion ensued regarding the residential unit charge for duplex and multi-
family dwellings. The City Clerk commented that the individual unit rate is
multiplied by two, three or four depending on the number of units present at
the location address and that the larger apartment buildings generally contract
privately for dumpster service at the location. Mr. Ellison was concerned that
multi-family buildings housing over four units would be using the city trash
service at a lesser cost that a dumpster. Mayor Kriege advised that the city is
in the third year of a five-year contract with Rumpke for the trash collection
and that he would need to review the contract to see how it relates to multi-
family units. Mr. Feldhaus also commented that the cost last year for each
residential unit was $84.60 and the 1999 rate will be $86.88, up by $2.28 over
last year. He also advised that the assessment is a pass-through cost to the
residents.
16.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to accept Ordinance No. 1999-O-09; seconded by
Mr. Steffen. Roll call vote was answered with five yes votes and one no vote
cast by Mr. Ellison. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance to Adopt a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances
17.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to have a first reading on the proposed
ordinance to adopt the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the city;
seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
18.   There was a brief discussion regarding this ordinance. Mr. Lawson stated
he did not draft this ordinance but that the Burlington Publishing Company
supplied it to the city as a service along with the codification supplement.
Mr. Feldhaus also asked the City Clerk to look into purchasing the codification
on compact discs. The City Attorney, Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Discussion of a Proposed Ordinance to Amend Ordinance No. 1995-O-05
Establishing Building/Zoning Fee Schedule for the City
19.   Mayor Kriege introduced a discussion regarding the amendment of Ordinance
No. 1995-O-05 that would increase the new construction building fee rate for
single and multi-family dwellings from .09 cents per square foot to .20 cents
per square foot. Some council members voiced concern that the commercial
construction should also be charged the increased fee and not just target the
single and multi-family dwellings. Mr. Dupps suggested sending this matter to
the Planning & Zoning Committee for review and recommendation to council at a
later date.
20.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to table the amendment of Ordinance No. 1995-O-
05; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion of a Proposed Dangerous Animal Ordinance
21.   Mayor Kriege submitted a draft ordinance to council, which he asked the
city attorney to prepare that would prohibit vicious dogs and provide for their
registration. Mr. Feldhaus asked what prompted this ordinance to be drafted.
Police Chief Porter replied there was an incident on Sugar Camp Drive wherein
the mother of the owner of the dog was viciously attacked and the dog was
killed. Mr. Walker, City Attorney, informed council that he learned the City of
Maysville had an ordinance of this type that was considered very good and
requested a copy to use as a guideline. He stated he feels the ordinance is a
good one to begin working with as he feels the ordinance is all encompassing.
He stated the ordinance sets forth conditions to permit such animals to be
within the city and does not outright ban them. He advised that an ordinance
that would ban vicious animals would be subject to challenge. He stated that
the ordinance submitted to them could be enacted in partially or in its
entirety. There was a brief discussion and the consensus of council was to have
the proposed ordinance reviewed by the Public Safety Committee and brought back
to the next meeting with a recommendation(s).
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
22.   Mr. Scott reported the Public Works Department put out bids for a dump
truck and that the dealership that submitted the lowest bid would not be able
to deliver the vehicle for six to eight weeks. The next bid came in at
$43.465.00 and the vehicle is available now. Since the department is currently
renting a pickup truck for one of the workers he stated he feels it would be
more feasible to take the next lowest bid because of the availability. He
requested council declare the $43,465.00 bid as the best bid. Mr. Feldhaus
agreed and stated that waiting six to eight weeks or more would be courting
with the bad weather months.
23.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the bid from Middletown Ford for a
dump truck at the cost of $43,465.00 as the lowest and best bid. Mr. Steffen
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
24.   Mr. Scott also reported he would gather a staff committee to develop a
Park Plan for the city. He stated that with the rapid growth of the city he
would like to realize a solid plan so that a fiscal fund can be devoted to
capital improvements of the parks. Mrs. Yeager stated that the Independence
Recreation Committee already develops plans for the parks and asked what role
the IRC would play in this. Mr. Scott replied the staff committee would plan
development steps with budgeted funds in an orderly manner and then would
present the scheme to the IRC. There was a brief discussion regarding the lack
of adequate parking spaces at the Independence Park as this area is used by the
Independence Soccer League as a practice facility and there is not enough
spaces for parking. Mayor Kriege asked the Park Plan Committee to look at that
matter to determine a possible solution.
Zoning Administrator – Melissa Bradford
25.   Mayor Kriege introduced and welcomed the city’s new Zoning Administrator,
Melissa Bradford. He stated Ms. Bradford began work on August 30, 1999. Ms.
Bradford informed council of her work experience, which includes various
building and zoning duties for the last twelve years. Most recently she has
worked for Warren and Hamilton Counties in Ohio. She stated she has been
spending much of her time becoming familiar with the city.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
26.   Mr. Barbian stated they would notice a significant decrease in the number
of permits issued in August. He explained this was due to the enormous number
of July building permits issued because of the fact that the Sanitation
District’s tap-in fees were being increased on August 1, 1999 from $500 to
$1800 and the builders were trying to beat the deadline.
27.   Mr. Barbian also welcomed the new Zoning Administrator and informed
council he will be working closely with her as they begin to initiate new
procedures to make for a more effective building and zoning department.
28.   Mrs. Gabbard asked Mr. Scott if job descriptions have been developed for
all the new employees. Mr. Scott stated he is currently working on those.
29.   Mr. Dupps asked what the status was regarding the trucks and other
vehicles that are illegally parked in the commercial parking lots throughout
the city. Mr. Barbian replied that new vehicles move into the spaces left by
the vehicles that were towed. He also informed council that he has not received
a reply from the owner of Cherokee Bowl regarding his request for consent to
tow vehicles on his property. Mr. Feldhaus stated that the tractor-trailer
parked on the Cherokee Bowl lot has expired tags and thought the city could tow
vehicles with expired plates. Chief Porter stated they are the easiest to take
care of. Mr. Scott stated he would research the matter to see if lots that
appear to be junkyards and used car lots can be condemned as blighted areas.
Public Works – Jeff Smith
30.   Mr. Scott stated Mr. Smith was unable to attend this evening’s meeting
but reviewed his written report with council regarding the jobs the department
has completed or is in the process of completing. He reported this department
has been very busy. Mr. Feldhaus reported the workers would begin building the
walking trails at Memorial Park this week. They trails are being constructed
with grant money received from the state. Mr. Scott also reported they would
begin in the next few weeks cleaning out the storm water culverts.
Police Department – Ed Porter
31.   Chief Porter reviewed the written department report that was inserted in
the council packets. There was a brief discussion regarding alcohol consumption
in the city parks as it pertains to state statutes. Mayor Kriege stated he
would like to present a commendation to the officers involved in the recent
foiled kidnapping attempt of a teenage girl that resides on Richardson Road.
Chief Porter also reported the department has received a $10,000 grant in the
Troops to Cops Program.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
32.   Mr. Whitacre stated that due to the recent drought he has some concerns
with regard to the streets. He informed council that when the ground becomes
this dry and hard it begins to pull away from the roads. When the fast and hard
rains come the water will run under the road and in between the cracks and
cause erosion and slabs to settle. He stated there is no preventive measure the
city can take; just hope the first rains of the season are slow and steady
until the ground is fully saturated and the gaps are closed.
33.   There was a brief discussion regarding liability when a manhole cover
within a sidewalk settles and causes a tripping problem. Mr. Whitacre was
unsure regarding a sidewalk but felt the city would probably repair if this
manhole were in the street. Mr. Feldhaus stated there is a hazardous sidewalk
with this condition in the Independence Pointe Subdivision.
Discussion of Possible Land Acquisition
34.   Mrs. Yeager re-introduced the matter of the city possibly acquiring the
land on Madison Pike directly across from the Kenton County Courthouse. She
stated that it is currently an eyesore with the growth of tall grass and weeds.
Mrs. Gabbard stated she knows the owner is willing to sell and has been waiting
for an offer from the city. Mrs. Yeager suggested council authorize the City
Administrator to negotiate with the owner.
35.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to authorize Mr. Gary Scott to enter into
negotiations with the owners of three parcels of land on Madison Pike for
possible purchase by the city. Two parcels are directly across from the Kenton
County Courthouse and the other parcel is south of the city’s Park and Ride
lot. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with five
yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Ellison. Motion carried 5-1.
Battleridge Subdivision Streetlights
36.   There was a brief discussion regarding the Battleridge Subdivision
developer’s compliance with the ordinance requiring the installation of
streetlights. Mr. Barbian advised some lights are going up but Owen Electric is
a little behind schedule, which is making the whole process to be delayed.
Currently building permits are being withheld. Mayor Kriege stated that there
sounds like there is intent to comply on the developer’s part.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
37.   Lucille Hall requested the flashing light at the intersection of Taylor
Mill and Mills Roads be replaced. She stated the light was removed when the
intersection was re-aligned over a year ago when Mills Road Park was developed.
Mr. Scott stated he would inspect the area and look into getting the light
installed. There was mention that the yellow flashing light at the Millhouse
Crossing Subdivision on Taylor Mill Road had also been removed
Scheduling of Committee Meetings
38.   The following committee meetings were scheduled:
Budget/Finance will meet on September 27, 1999 at 4:30 p.m. at the Admin.
Building
Personnel Policy Committee will meet on September 26, 1999 at 5:30 p.m. at the
Admin. Building
Public Safety Committee will meet on September 27, 1999 at 5:30 p.m. at the
Police Dept.
Public Works Committee will set a date at a later time.
Planning & Zoning Committee will set a date at a later time.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
Resolution No. 1999-R-09 Approving Transfer of Cable System from InterMedia to
Insight
39.   There was a brief discussion regarding the resolution approving the
transfer of control of the cable system from InterMedia to Insight
Communications Company, which the telecommunications board has requested the
city adopt.
40.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read Resolution No. 1999-R-09 approving the
transfer of control of the cable system to Insight Communications Company. Mr.
Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0.
41.   Mayor Kriege reported the Strategic Plan would be presented at the next
council meeting on October 4, 1999. He stated a lot of effort has been put into
the plan, which he feels is a good one and represents a good cross section.
42.   Mr. Scott reported that a tentative meeting has been scheduled for
October 7, 1999 in collaboration with the Sanitation District to hear comments
from the public regarding sewering the pocket areas of the city. When a
definite date and time is scheduled notice will be sent to residents in those
areas that may be interested and it will be posted on the marquee sign outside
of the city building.
43.   Charlene Case of 522 Rice Road addressed council regarding the lack of
services on the north side of the city. She stated she feels public services
are concentrated on the south side of the city while the north side is
neglected. Her concerns were the lack of repairs on the streets in her
neighborhood. Mr. Scott stated he would meet with her and bring a Public Works
representative to inspect the repairs needed.
44.   Mrs. Yeager stated a resident has brought to her attention old yard sale
signage that is left on poles throughout the city. She would like to see them
taken down. Mr. Barbian stated there is a zoning ordinance that prohibits these
and will begin working with the zoning administrator to remove them.
Discussion on the SWAT Committee
45.   Mr. Feldhaus suggested to Mayor Kriege that an update on the SWAT
Committee be reported to council. Mayor Kriege advised that Chief Porter and
Chief Green from the City of Elsmere were going to review an equitable
agreement between the two cities with plans to eventually expand to Kenton
County and the City of Erlanger. Mr. Feldhaus stated that when he agreed to be
a member of the SWAT Committee he thought it was to review the feasibility of
forming a SWAT team. He now feels the decision was already made. Mayor Kriege
disagreed and stated that as long as he stayed within the budget council
provided him that there shouldn’t be a problem. Mr. Feldhaus argued that not
once during the Budget meetings or the Public Safety Committee meetings was the
formation of a SWAT team ever mentioned. He went on to say that he felt that
the City of Covington’s SWAT team could provide this type of tactical services
when the need arises.
46.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to discontinue the SWAT team. The motion died
for lack of a second.
47.   Mrs. Gabbard commented that she disagrees with Mr. Feldhaus and that as
long as the expenses for the SWAT team come from the allotted budget that she
has no problem with that.
48.   Mayor Kriege informed council that he has spoken with the City
Administrator of Erlanger who expressed an interest in joining the SWAT team.
He also stated he has been told that Kenton County is interested too. He said
the city needs to present them with an option and is in the process of setting
this up with Chief Green. Mayor Kriege disputed Mr. Feldhaus’ statements by
maintaining he feels he has allowed the council members to be a part of the
executive decisions and makes every effort to keep them informed. Mayor Kriege
closed the discussion.
Executive Session
49.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to enter into an executive session for the
purpose of discussing pending litigation according to KRS 61.810 (1-c). Mrs.
Gabbard seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
50.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to resume the regular session; seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes.
Re-consideration of the Re-zoning request for property at Cox & Taylor Mill
Roads
51.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to re-consider the zone change request for the
property at the corner of Cox and Taylor Mill Roads. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. Roll call vote was answered with five yes votes and one abstain by Mr.
Feldhaus. Motion carried 5-1.
Adjournment
52.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 11:15 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 27, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. He began by announcing the following agenda items for this special
meeting of council:
a)   Discussion and possible action regarding the proposed development at the
corner of Taylor Mill and Cox Roads by the Scheben Company.
b)   Discussion and possible second reading of the proposed Ordinance providing
for the addition of provisions to discontinue the RCD Overlay Zone and to
prohibit flag lots.
2.   Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps,
and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. City Administrator, Gary R. Scott, and
City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker was also present.
Proposed Ordinance to Discontinue the RCD Overlay Zone & Prohibit Flag Lots
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance that would provide for the addition of provisions to discontinue the
RCD Overlay Zone and to prohibit flag lots in the city. Mr. Steffen seconded
the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read Ordinance No. 1999-O-
11.
4.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 1999-O-11 as read. Mr.
Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried.
Discussion of Planned Development by the Scheben Group at corner of Cox &
Taylor Mill Roads
5.   City Attorney, Mr. Walker, began by explaining that at the last regular
meeting council had moved to re-consider the zone change request for the
property at the corner of Cox and Taylor Mill Roads. He advised that the
decision to re-consider did not rescind the previous motion at the August 2,
1999 meeting wherein council rejected the zone change request. Mr. Walker
informed the audience that council could hear their comments regarding this
proposed zone change but that council had to make their decision based on
Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission’s recommendation. He went
on to say that this meeting was not a public hearing on the matter. Mr. Walker
also stated that he was aware there have been meetings between the developer
and some residents of the Jimae Court area. At this time he offered the floor
to Mr. Jerry Dusing, the attorney representing the Scheben Group.
6.   Mr. Dusing reiterated Mr. Walker’s advise to council that this meeting was
not a public hearing and that council had to make their decision based on the
recommendation before them from the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning
Commission. Mr. Dusing stated that the developer was willing to agree to the
following conditions: 1) they would change the access road from Cox Road to
Taylor Mill Road, 2) they would extend the sewer line free of charge to the
Jimae Court residents, but that does not include the tap-in fee charged by the
Sanitation District or the cost of the lateral line, and 3) they would
guarantee no more than ten percent ownership by a single person to assure this
development would not become low income housing in the future.
7.   Mr. Dusing commented that representatives of the Scheben Group had met
with the adjoining residents before they moved forward with the development
plan and had not received any unfavorable comments. He stated many of the
issues concerning the residents were not discussed at the public hearing held
by the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission.
8.   Mr. Berling, with the Scheben Group, told council that the condition to
change the egress from Cox Road to Taylor Mill Road would be subject to
approval from the Kentucky Department of Transportation on the encroachment
permits. He also clarified that the main sewer line would be extended free of
charge but that the property owner would be responsible for the cost of the
lateral line along with the tap-in fee charged by the Sanitation District.
9.   Mayor Kriege asked council if they were prepared to take action tonight on
this issue. Again, Mr. Walker explained to council that their decision to
approve or deny this zone change request needed to be based on the
recommendation of the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission. He
advised there is sufficient facts to decide either way. He stated that the
staff recommendation from Northern Kentucky Area Planning and Zoning was for
approval of the development with certain conditions; one of those conditions
being to lower the density to comply with the Comprehensive Plan. When the
development plan was submitted to KCMP&Z Commission for recommendation they
removed the density requirement. Mr. Walker advised council the NKAP&Z staff
has given them a reason to deny this zone change request. There was a brief
discussion regarding whether the motion made at the KCMP&Z Commission meeting
was in error regarding the number of units per acre. Mr. Walker advised council
they would need to go into an executive session to discuss this matter in more
detail. Mr. Feldhaus suggested they could possibly reach an agreement with the
developer to lower the number of units per acre. Mr. Walker advised that
council was not writing a zone but acting on the Planning & Zoning Commission’s
recommendation.
10.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Dusing how the condition of no more than ten-
percent ownership by an individual would guarantee this development would not
become low-income housing in the future. Mr. Dusing replied they felt this
would be a practical and effective guarantee because low-income housing
requires single ownership. Mr. Walker added that council could request that
condition be made a restrictive covenant.
Motion to Deny the Zone Change Request for Property Located at Cox & Taylor
Mills Rds.
11.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to reject the Kenton County Municipal Planning
& Zoning Commission’s recommendation on matter Z-99-06-07-1413R by finding that
the recommendations and Staff Report of the Kenton County Municipal Planning
Commission are sufficient to make its decision solely on the record before the
Planning Commission and disregarding any statements made in any meeting of the
City Council. The Council finds that the supporting information in the NKAPCP
Staff recommendation determined that the land use element of the 1996 area wide
Comprehensive Plan identifies the subject site for residential development at
4.1 to 7.0 dwelling units per acre and that the requested R-2 zone allows for a
maximum of ten dwelling units per acre and further notes that the Staff
recommended a condition be imposed upon the zone change that density not exceed
7.0 dwelling units per net acre to be consistent with the 1996 area wide
Comprehensive Plan. Since the recommendation from the Planning Commission
removed this condition and therefore if Council were to approve the zone change
as before it, development up to ten dwelling units per acre would occur and
Council finds such density not to be consistent with the area wide
Comprehensive Plan and therefore rejects the recommendation. Mr. Dupps seconded
the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Adjournment
12.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to adjourn seconded by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 7:30 p.m.
_______________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
__________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
OCTOBER 4, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Greg Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
were Gary Scott, City Administrator and H. Lawson Walker, City Attorney.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the regular
meeting of September 13, 1999 as amended. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the minutes of the September 27, 1999
Special Council Meeting as amended. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. No roll
call; motion carried with all ayes.
Second Reading of Ordinance No. 1999-O-10 Adopting Supplement to Code of
Ordinances
4.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
Ordinance to enact and adopt a supplement to the Code of Ordinances. Mr. Yeager
seconded the motion. Mr. Walker read proposed Ordinance No. 1999-O-10.
5.   After a brief discussion, Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance
No. 1999-O-10; seconded by Mr. Yeager. Roll call was answered with six ayes.
Motion carried 6-0.
PRESENTATION OF THE “INDEPENDENCE TOMORROW” STRATEGIC PLAN
6.   Mayor Kriege submitted to the council members the completed strategic plan
for the city and introduced Mr. Bob Dodson, a member of the committee, to give
an overview of the document.
7.   Mr. Dodson stated the Strategic Plan is the compilation of several months
of work, from January through September of 1999. He stated that Mayor Kriege
had enlisted people from business owners to private citizens to be members of
this committee. The first order of business for the committee was to compose a
mission statement. Then the committee branched off into several sub-committees
that included Administration/Public Works, Community Development, Human
Services, and Public Safety. Each sub-committee highlighted the city’s
strengths and weaknesses for that category and recommended long and short-term
goals and objectives for the plan.
8.   Mr. Dodson emphasized that the Strategic Plan document is a work in
progress and that the committee would meet quarterly or annually to review its
progress. He stressed the recommendations in the Plan came from the citizens of
the community and is asking for council’s support.
9.   Mr. Dupps commented that the committee consisted of dedicated individuals
who put a lot of work into the development of this document. He reminded
everyone that the development of a Strategic Plan was discussed at the city’s
annual Planning Session, which was held in January of this year. Mr. Dupps
suggested adopting the Plan by Resolution at the November council meeting.
10.   Mayor Kriege stated that many objectives in the Strategic Plan have been
accomplished or in some stage of advancement.
11.   Mr. Feldhaus thanked the city staff, committee members, council members,
and facilitators for working on this Plan and stated that it provides an
excellent guideline to use as a planning tool. As an added comment he stated
that he doesn’t think the city will be able to increase representation on the
Planning & Zoning Commission but would like all interested citizens to have
input into the Comprehensive Plan update.
12.   Mrs. Yeager added that she was impressed with the committee and will be
glad to support the Strategic Plan. Mrs. Gabbard also thanked everyone involved
in the development of this plan.
13.   Mayor Kriege thanked the committee members and commented that it will be
helpful for the future planning needs of the city. He asked council to review
the document before the November meeting.
PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
14.   Mr. Ken Hansel, 4280 Richardson Road, addressed council regarding a
matter involving the post office and the placement of residents’ mailboxes on
Richardson Road. He stated that with the mailboxes across the road from their
homes and the increased traffic on Richardson Road that it has become a matter
of safety trying to cross the road to retrieve their mail. He stated the post
office has not been cooperative with this issue and that the mail carrier made
the comment that she would not deliver the mail if they moved the receptacles
to the other side of the road. He also stated he has written state
representatives and other officials trying to enlist support in this matter.
Mayor Kriege assured Mr. Hansel that the city would make inquiries on his
behalf to the proper authorities.
15.   Mr. Tom Kiser, of Long & Kiser Development, addressed council regarding
the Bristow Meadows development. He stated he would like to make amendments to
Stage I of the development. Mr. Barbian informed council that both the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning staff and the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning
Commission have approved the amended Stage I plan which includes the addition
of four more two-family structures.
16.   Mr. Ellison explained to council that the developers of Bristow Meadows
have already built four or five duplexes and has now re-submitted a new site
plan to get approval for four additional buildings. He stated at the September
2, 1999 Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning meeting the amended site plan
was approved.
17.   There was a brief discussion regarding the fact that this request for a
revised site plan has not come before the city’s Planning & Zoning Committee.
Mayor Kriege advised discussion of this matter was not on the agenda. Mr.
Walker suggested this matter go before the committee for recommendation to
council and if there are concerns then council could meet to decide the matter
by October 16,1999.
First Reading to amend Ordinance No. 1995-O-05 to set Schedule of Building
Permit Fees
18.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading (in summary) of a
proposed ordinance to change the Schedule of Building permit fees. Mrs. Yeager
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
19.   There was a brief discussion about modifying the sign ordinance. Mr.
Walker advised that if the sign charge was deleted now then the city could not
charge sign permit fees until the revised ordinance is adopted. He also stated
that a latter ordinance always prevails over an older ordinance. Mr. Walker
also stated the proposed ordinance would be available for council’s review
before the second reading at the November meeting.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
20.   Mr. Scott reported the proposed vicious dog ordinance is still under
review by the Public Safety Committee. He also advised council that the dump
truck purchased for the Public Works Department has been received. He reported
the walking trails at Memorial Park are under construction and are coming along
nicely. He also stated there is some vandalism damage at the parks, mainly
lights.
21.   Mrs. Gabbard asked Mr. Scott if the job descriptions for new employees
have been completed. Mr. Scott stated they are currently being developed.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
22.   Mr. Barbian reported the vehicles illegally parked on the Cherokee Bowl
lot have been removed. Although the tractor is still there and explained there
are large costs involved in having this vehicle removed.
23.   Mr. Barbian stated that the Public Works Department, due to complaints by
the neighbors, has cleaned up the property located at 4011 Thomas Drive. He
explained this is a new structure wherein construction ceased several months
ago leaving it partially built.
24.   Mr. Barbian also reported that twelve new single family permits were
issued last month.
Zoning Administrator – Melissa Bradford
25.   Mrs. Bradford reported that all outstanding violation complaints have
been addressed and stated eight to ten of those have been abated. She advised
the remaining unsettled violations would be going before the Code Enforcement
Board. Mr. Feldhaus requested Mrs. Bradford supply council with a monthly
report that would show complaints logged and the activity status of each.
Police Department – Shawn Butler
26.   Sgt. Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney – H. Lawson Walker
27.   Mr. Walker reported that the Drees Company has met with the city’s
Planning & Zoning Committee regarding an amendment they are requesting to the
original site plan for the Lakefield Subdivision. He stated Drees is applying
for an RCD/R-1D Overlay and has reached a conditional agreement with the
committee. The agreement was that the city would consider changing the entire
property to R-1D from the current R-1C if the Drees Company agreed to a
seventy-five foot lot width at the setback. Mr. Walker advised that council
could do nothing at this time or take a first step toward the adoption of an
ordinance that would put this agreement into effect. He submitted a proposed
ordinance to council for their review. Mr. Walker advised that Mr.
Schottelkotte from the Drees Company would attend the November council meeting.
28.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed ordinance
that would enact a map amendment changing the zone of approximately 38.4 acres
in the Lakefield Subdivision off Taylor Mill Road. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
29.   Mrs. Gabbard recalled this same parcel of land was turned down by the
Planning Commission in early 1998 and alerted council that there is a mandatory
two year waiting period before re-application. Mr. Scott stated he would
research this matter. Mr. Walker stated that he thought the Planning Commission
would not have approved this if the two-year waiting period had not lapsed. Mr.
Walker read the proposed ordinance in summary.
30.   There was a brief discussion regarding the width of streets, greenspace,
sidewalks, and playground equipment for this development. Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance again to include the revisions discussed.
Donation to the Northern Kentucky Police Memorial
31.   Mrs.Yeager stated she would like to see the city donate $1,000.00 to the
renovation of the Northern Kentucky Police Memorial at the end of the
Suspension Bridge in Covington. The city attorney advised this expenditure has
to be in the budget and that he was not aware of a charitable donation line
item. He stated it would have to be a broad line item that would encompass this
type of expense. Mayor Kriege suggested that council not take action on this
until the Finance Director reviews the budget and makes a recommendation. He
stated this matter could be decided at the next regular meeting when council
will know exactly what expense line item could support this donation.
32.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to donate $1,000.00 to the Northern Kentucky
Police Memorial renovation with the stipulation that it was a legal expense and
the funds could be found in the budget with a report to council to that effect.
Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and
two no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Ellison. Motion carried 4-2.
City Attorney – H. Lawson Walker
33.   Mr. Walker advised council, that in order to promote good communications,
in the future his office will make it a point to remind council of the deadline
to act regarding any recommendations from the Kenton County Municipal Planning
& Zoning Commission regarding zone changes. He also stated that he does not
routinely attend Planning Commission meetings, but will represent the city at
those meetings if council so desires. He stated that he though Mr. Scott
generally attends the Planning Commission meetings on behalf of the city. Mr.
Scott confirmed that statement. Mr. Feldhaus stated that he did not feel it was
necessary for Mr. Walker to attend the Planning Commission meetings unless he
foresees there might be a legal matter involved with a proposed request for a
zone change.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance
34.   Mr. Scott stated they would hold a meeting soon to begin discussions
regarding next year’s budget.
Personnel & Administration
35.   Mr. Scott stated the committee has recommended some changes. Those
sections of the personnel policy that have proposed revisions are currently
being updated and will soon come before the city council.
Planning & Zoning Committee
36.   Mr. Scott stated the committee met prior to this meeting to discuss the
adjustment of the building permit fees, which were recommended earlier tonight.
Public Safety Committee
37.   Mr. Dupps stated the committee would be discussing the proposed vicious
dog ordinance and would bring those recommendations to the November council
meeting. He also noted the committee has decided they would have a standing
meeting every third Monday of each month at 5:30 p.m. and the meetings would be
held at the Police Department offices in the Courthouse. He stated that if the
third Monday fell on a holiday then the committee would meet on Tuesday.
Public Works Committee
38.   Mr. Feldhaus stated the Public Works Department did a great job assisting
the Kenton County Public Works Department on the construction of the walking
trails in Memorial Park. He also thanked the Public Works employees with their
assistance at the Senior Picnic.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
39.   Mr. Whitacre reported that Sylvan Drive was to be repaired today but was
delayed due to the weather. He also stated that blacktop repairs are scheduled
for Locust Lane and Sassafras Drive and mud jacking on Wedgwood Drive and
Rickey Lane. There was a brief discussion regarding repairs needed on a
sidewalk where a manhole was installed and is now sinking.. Mr. Whitacre stated
the sidewalk is the responsibility of the property owner. Mayor Kriege
suggested coordinating the repairs with the property owner.
40.   Mr. Ellison requested Mr. Whitacre study the traffic flow at Declaration
Drive and Patriot Way and suggested he ask Kenton County to assist in this
project. He stated the lanes need to be lined.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
41.   Mayor Kriege recommended Chris Moriconi to fill the vacancy left by the
resignation of Sandy Brewer on the Code Enforcement Board/Ethics Board.
42.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read Executive Order 1999-EO-10 appointing
Chris Moriconi to the Code Enforcement Board/Ethics Board as recommended by
Mayor Kriege. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
43.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt Executive Order 1999-EO-10 as read;
seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0.
Executive Session
44.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to go into executive session for the purpose of
discussing personnel in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(f); seconded by Mr.
Feldhaus. Motion carried with all ayes.
45.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mr.
Feldhaus. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
46.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 1, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Jim Ellison, Eric Dupps, Donna Yeager, Greg
Steffen, and Steve Feldhaus answered roll call. Council Member Barbara Gabbard
was absent due to illness. Also in attendance were Gary Scott, City
Administrator and H. Lawson Walker, City Attorney.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the regular
meeting of October 4, 1999 as amended. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. No roll
call; motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion and Action Regarding the Proposed Kenton County Jail Site in Elsmere
3.   Mr. Feldhaus requested Mayor Kriege permit Beth Wulfeck to address council
regarding the Kenton County Fiscal Court’s decision to build the new jail in
Elsmere. Ms. Wulfeck was signed in to speak during the privileges of the floor
but Mayor Kriege allowed her to speak before council began the scheduled agenda
business.
4.   Ms. Wulfeck began by stating she has been working with Mr. Feldhaus and
other Independence residents regarding the Fiscal Court’s decision to build the
new jail in Elsmere. She stated a petition drive has been started in the
Beechgrove area and that a rally is scheduled for Saturday, November 6, 1999
from three until five o’clock at Turkeyfoot Acres. She informed council there
is overwhelming support in the fight against the proposed jail site. She stated
that Bob Carran, Elsmere’s city attorney would like Independence to discuss
this issue tonight. Ms. Wulfeck presented a letter from Mayor Diane Whalen,
City of Florence, to the Fiscal Court, expressing their city’s concern about
the location chosen for the new jail. She stated that Florence’s City
Administrator, Jeff Koenig stated Florence would not take any action for thirty
days. Ms. Wulfeck also passed out copies of the resolution passed by the City
of Erlanger wherein they expressed support for the 3-L Highway site as the best
location for the new jail. In closing Ms. Wulfeck requested city council to
join in the lawsuit that the City of Elsmere has filed.
5.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to instruct the city attorney to join in the
legal action with the City of Elsmere against the proposed jail site chosen by
the Kenton County Fiscal Court. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. A brief
discussion ensued regarding the necessity to discuss this matter in executive
session. Mr. Walker advised that he had not read the contents of the lawsuit
filed by the City of Elsmere and would therefore be unable to contribute to
this discussion. He stated that he does not know what the basis of the lawsuit
is. Mr. Dupps reminded council that they had recently passed a resolution in
support of the 3-L Highway site.
6.   With a motion and a second on the floor, roll call was answered with three
yes votes and two no votes cast by Mrs. Yeager and Mr. Steffen. Motion to join
in the lawsuit with the City of Elsmere carried 3-2 in favor.
Discussion Regarding the Increase in the Building & Zoning Permit Fees
7.   Mayor Kriege opened the floor for public comments regarding the proposed
increase in the building and zoning permit fees.
8.   Don Wiedeman, Executive Vice President of the Northern Kentucky Home
Builders Association addressed council with his agency’s concerns. He
distributed a list of reasons why the current building permit fee (.09cents/
sq.ft.) is in line with other area cities and counties along with a comparative
analysis of fees charged by other local cities and counties. He expressed
concern that the increased fees would be added to the cost of a home thereby
making it difficult to produce affordable housing. He also stated the Kentucky
Building Code maintains the fees charged should not exceed the cost of the
service performed and his agency feels the fees would produce revenue far in
excess of the expenses. He requested the council re-examine the proposed fees.
9.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Scott what factors were used to determine the
proposed fees. Mr. Scott advised the city now has more employees doing what one
person used to do. Mayor Kriege commented the Planning & Zoning Committee,
prior to being presented to council, approved these increases.
10.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to increase the building and zoning permit fees. Mr. Feldhaus
seconded the motion.
11.   Discussion continued when Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Wiedeman if the increase
in the zoning permit fee from $30.00 to $50.00 and the building permit fee from
.09 cents to .20 cents per square foot were the only issues the Home Builders
Association had opposition to. Mr. Wiedeman stated it was. Mr. Feldhaus noted
two other local cities have the same fees that Independence is proposing. Mr.
Feldhaus asked Mr. Scott how the building inspector is paid. Mr. Scott replied
that Mr. Barbian receives one-half of the revenue collected for building
permits. He reiterated that two people are now doing what one person was doing,
more staff time is involved, and this was taken into the computation of the
proposed rates. Mr. Walker advised the city is not entitled to make a profit
off regulations and does not feel that applying the overhead costs to the
expenses is outside the range. He advised the proposed fees are legally
sustainable as the city can charge indirect expenses, not just the building
inspector’s fee.
12.   Don Laake and Ted Arlinghaus, representatives of Arlinghaus Builders
addressed council. Mr. Laake felt it was unfair to make a comparison to the
City of Fort Thomas as they have little building going on. Mr. Arlinghaus
commented that other cities build for half the cost being proposed by
Independence.
13.   Larry Sprague, a representative from Henry Fischer Homes questioned
whether the city knows the actual cost and stated the public should be able to
see the data that was used to determine the proposed increase. He commented
that the City of Fort Thomas has a sophisticated building/engineering
department that includes in-house mapping data. Mr. Sprague feels the city
should show the services provided to justify the increase of fees as these fees
are passed onto the new homebuyer.
14.   Mr. Scott advised council that the current ordinance regulating the
building/zoning fees is approximately 4-5 year old. Mr. Dupps suggested working
with the Home Builders Association to come to an equitable agreement on the
proposed fees. Mr. Feldhaus concurred and withdrew his second to the motion to
have a second reading of the proposed ordinance. Mr. Steffen declined to
withdraw his motion. The motion died for lack of a second.
15.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to send the proposed ordinance increasing the
building/zoning permit fees back to the committee for review and possible
amendments. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. No roll called; motion carried with
four ayes and one nay cast by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
16.   Mr. Steffen suggested the city perform an assessment of actual costs.
Mayor Kriege stated a committee meeting will be scheduled and members of the
Home Builders Association will be notified.
Second Reading of Proposed Ordinance No. 1999-O-14 Lakefield Subd. Map
Amendment
17.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to enact a map amendment changing an approximate 38.4-acre section in
the Lakefield Subdivision off Taylor Mill Road from R-1C to R-1D. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance in summary.
18.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 1999-O-14 as read;
seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 5-
0 in favor.
Presentation of the 1998/99 Audit by Rankin & Rankin
19.   Mr. Jim Sparrow, from Rankin, Rankin & Company, reviewed the audit
performed by his company for the city. He stated that the cash had decreased
due to the payoff of the bond anticipation note but that the city had a solid
year as the revenues had increased in the areas of real estate and payroll
taxes. Council members had no questions of Mr. Sparrow.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
20.   Mr. Bob Dodson of Hunters Green Drive stated he lives on a cul de sac
where the other residents park their cars overnight on their front lawns. He
wanted to know if this was a violation of zoning regulations and asked council
to look into the matter. Mayor Kriege replied the Zoning Administrator would
investigate the situation.
21.   Steve Curley informed council that he is a builder and is currently
building homes in the Battleridge Subdivision. He stated that no building
permits are being issued in this subdivision due to the fact that the developer
has not installed streetlights yet. He informed council that all paper work has
been completed for the street lights and they are waiting for Owen Electric to
install the light equipment. Since the developer has complied with the street
lighting ordinance he requested council’s permission to begin new construction
while awaiting Owen Electric’s installation. Mayor Kriege explained the reason
behind the city’s ban on building permits in the Battleridge Subdivision. Mr.
Barbian added that some sections of the subdivision were platted before the
ordinance requiring the developer to install streetlights was adopted. Mr.
Feldhaus stated that Mr. Barbian should check with Owen Electric regarding the
streetlight installation plans and if he feels confident then he could resume
issuing permits. Council concurred.
Proposed Map Amendment by Keeney Development for Manor Hill Subdivision on
Marshall Road
22.   Before hearing public comments regarding the proposed development of the
Manor Hill Subdivision on Marshall Road, Mr. Walker explained to those in
attendance that this council meeting was not a public hearing. He advised this
matter was before the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission and
that the City of Independence was now in a legal position to act on the
recommendation of the Planning Commission. Mr. Walker advised the audience to
limit their remarks to what occurred at the Planning Commission’s public
hearing that was held on October 7, 1999 and stated that council not take new
findings into consideration when making their decision on this matter.
23.   Mr. Jerry Dusing, attorney for Keeney Development stated he would address
any topics of concern to council. He stated they are requesting the property be
re-zoned from R-1B to R-1C (PUD) in order to have a mix of houses and take
advantage of the natural features of the land. He went on to say this is one of
the finest developments he has seen and that it is very inclusive by addressing
concerns of storm water management, density, and traffic while maximizing
greenspace. He stated the development plan is in conformity with the
Comprehensive Plan and added that the storm water retention plan far exceeds
what is mandated for this type of project.
24.   Mr. Feldhaus questioned what capacity the additional 25% equated to. Mr.
Dusing replied the extra 25% allows the retention pond to hold a 100-year storm
where the minimum retention design is for a 50-year storm.
25.   Allan Sebastian, 10532 Marshall Road, expressed concern for public safety
for the planned park, which is located in a secluded area. He wanted to know if
a fence would be installed to keep park visitors off his property. He also
wanted to know who would be responsible to maintain the pond. Mr. Sabastian’s
other concern was that the curve in Marshall Road be straightened. Mr. Dusing
replied there were no plans for a security fence and that the sport fields
would be owned and maintained by a homeowners association.
26.   Mr. Dusing commented that the storm water issue is a big concern with
many of the residents downstream. He stated that is why the developers went to
the 125% when designing the storm water management system, which also would be
maintained by the homeowners’ association.
27.   Mr. Dusing stated that 31% of the 89 acres is greenspace that includes
streams, hillsides, retention ponds, and park areas. Discussion turned to lot
sizes, as some residents would like to see two homes per acre. Mr. Walker
stated the basis for the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning
recommendation was for a density of 2.3 dwelling units per net acre. Mr.
Ellison commented that only a portion of the development was within the city
limits with the rest being located in unincorporated Kenton County. Mr. Ellison
went on to say that the section planned in the city limits calls for 1.3 units
per acre.
28.   Jim Knarr, 10157 Marshall Road, commented that the topography changes for
every new development. He stated he is not against development and thinks the
one planned is wonderful but the houses should be placed on larger lots. He
also cited the flooding problems currently in the Marshall Road area with fears
of the problem worsening with all the new developments in that vicinity of
Taylor Mill Road.
29.   Mr. Walker explained council’s perspective to Mr. Knarr by stating the
density is controlled by the Comprehensive Plan not the city council members.
He added that if the council doesn’t follow the Plan then the city would be on
shaky legal ground. Mr. Ellison stated that by requesting a PUD overlay that
the density could be changed. Mr. Dusing commented that the developer exceeded
the stringent requirements, as the density of approximately 1.5 units per acre
is better than the current zone requirement. He stated that the density is a
guideline that takes in factors such as roads, sewers, schools, etc.
30.   Mr. Joe Jarboe, 10174 Marshall Road, distributed a written proposal of
reasons to deny this zone change request by the Keeney’s. His chief concerns
included lots that have less than one-half acre of land, which does not meet
the Comprehensive Plan and public safety issues (roads, sidewalks, and sewers).
He stated he has a petition of over four hundred names of people against this
development. Mr. Jarboe also was concerned about the sewer pump station on
Marshall Road, which is at capacity. Mr. Dusing responded to Mr. Jarboe’s
concerns.
31.   Linda Schoborg, 10822 Marshall Road stated that her biggest concern was
the PUD overlay which allows the developer to be creative and fears that 4.9
units per acre could become a reality. She stated that she heard a rumor that
the county section of this development will be annexed into the city limits.
She also expressed concerns about who would enforce the building regulations.
Mr. Lawson advised that the market controls the building regulations and that
prices are controlled by the square footage of the house. He added that neither
the Planning Commission nor the city can regulate the price of a house and that
generally speaking bigger is better. Mr. Lawson added that the Homeowners’
Association would regulate deed restrictions. Mr. Ellison commented that the
developer enforces the subdivision regulations. Mr. Lawson stated that it would
take either a court order or an agreement of all parties involved to remove a
deed restriction. Mr. Steffen reported that the Planning & Zoning Committee has
discussed doing away with the PUD overlay zone.
32.   In closing, Ms. Schoborg asked council to stick with the one half acre
lot requirement.
33.   Mr. Dusing stated that Ms. Schoborg’s father sold the land to the
Keeney’s with the knowledge that it was to be developed. He also added that
after streets are taken out that there would be two units per net acre.
34.   At this point, Mayor Kriege asked council what, if any action they wanted
to take. Mr. Walker advised that their decision had to be based on the
recommendation of the Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission. He
stated that since the KCMPZ recommendation was made on October 7, 1999 council
has until January 5, 2000 to make a decision. He stated that council can take
no action by then and it would automatically pass or that the city could state
their findings and turn down the request by the Keeney’s.
35.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve the recommendation by the Kenton
County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission for the Keeney Manor Hill
Development request for a map amendment to Area “B” (that lies within the city
limits) from R-1B to R-1C (PUD) overlay for property along Marshall Road. Mrs.
Yeager seconded the motion.
36.   A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Feldhaus stated that he did not see how
the city could legally deny this map amendment request. He explained that even
if the council didn’t take action within ninety days of the Planning
Commission’s recommendation that their decision would go into effect anyway. He
added that it especially hard to turn this project down when the developer has
planned a density lower than what is required. Mr. Feldhaus made brief mention
of the Fiscal Court’s recent discussions about charging cities an impact fee
for the flooding that is occurring. He stated this zoning matter goes before
the Fiscal Court at their November 16th meeting and he suggested waiting to see
what action the Court takes regarding this. Mr. Steffen agreed and suggested
the decision on this matter be taken at the council’s December 6th meeting.
37.   Roll call was taken on the motion to approve the map amendment for the
Keeney Manor Hill Development on Marshall Road with two yes votes and three no
votes cast by Mr. Dupps, Mr. Steffen, and Mr. Feldhaus. Motion failed. Mr.
Walker advised the motion to approve has failed as four votes are needed to
turn this down.
Motion to take a Brief Recess
38.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to take a brief recess; seconded by Mr. Dupps.
Motion carried with all ayes.
39.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mr.
Feldhaus. Motion carried with all ayes.
Request for Site Plan Revision to Bristow Meadows by Long & Kiser
40.   Tom Kiser of Long and Kiser Development addressed council with a request
to amend the original site plan for Bristow Meadows. The original plan called
for seven duplex units and the revised site plan calls for the addition of four
more lots. The addition is considered a major change. Mr. Barbian stated
approval for this change was the recommendation of the Kenton County Municipal
Planning & Zoning Commission at their September 2, 1999 meeting.
41.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve the revised site plan for Bristow
Meadows based on the facts and findings of Kenton County Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission’s recommendation. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call
vote was answered with four yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen.
Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
Proposal to Adopt by Resolution a Strategic Plan for the City
42.   Dan Wormald, speaking on behalf of the “Independence Tomorrow” Strategic
Planning Committee, reminded council of the goals and expectations that were
presented at the last meeting and urged council to adopt the Strategic Plan.
Mr. Ellison shared his feelings and concerns with the document as submitted to
council. He stated that some of the ideas suggested were good but that many of
the details were redundant. He stated he felt that the Plan needed some
revisions before being adopted by Council.
43.   Mayor Kriege stated that he feels the Strategic Plan is a work in
progress and the committee members will continue to be involved in the
implementation of the Plan. Mr. Wormald also commented that the committee
members were just average citizens with thoughts and ideas they wanted to
present to council. He stated the purpose was to present positive suggestions
for the progress of the city and that there was no intent for negativism. Mr.
Wormald added that the committee looks forward to making any revisions based on
council’s input.
44.   Mr. Dupps stated that while many ideas are not original the intent was to
place focus on and set time lines to try to accomplish these goals. Mr. Ellison
replied that the goals should include ways to succeed and suggested that the
Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission be asked to assist in the long-range
plans. He stated that APA planners could also be of assistance in a strategic
plan for the city. Mr. Dupps agreed with Mayor Kriege in that the Strategic
Plan is a living document that should be revised as needed. Mr. Ellison stated
that he felt the submitted Plan needed revision before being adopted by
council. Mayor Kriege asked that council submit any revisions to Mr. Scott
before the next council meeting so that the Plan can be presented for adoption.
Discussion of Proposing a Public Referendum Imposing A Tax Levy on Parks &
Recreation
45.   Mr. Steffen stated that he has been perusing the Kentucky Revised
Statutes to find a way to increase funding for the city’s parks. He submitted
to council a resolution he is proposing that would allow a public referendum
for taxes to be levied on parks and recreation. The referendum would need to be
placed on the general election ballot in November 2000. He stated the proposed
tax, if passed, could generate $250,000 per year which could be used for the
acquisition of land and the operation of the parks. Mr. Steffen also added that
a Park Board would need to be established if the referendum passes. Mrs. Yeager
stated she is not prepared to vote on this matter, as she would like to discuss
this with the Independence Recreation Committee and Mr. Scott.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
46.   Mr. Scott reported that he is waiting for a report from the Finance
Director advising as to whether or not there is sufficient funds available to
make the $1,000 donation to the Northern Kentucky Police Memorial in Covington.
47.   Mr. Scott stated that the Personnel Policy is still in the process of
being reviewed by the Committee for possible revisions. Mrs. Yeager made a
motion to table any discussion and action on the revision of the Personnel
Policy; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried with four yes votes and one no
vote cast by Mr. Steffen.
48.   Mr. Scott reported he has contacted the owners of the property on Madison
Pike in the vicinity of the courthouse regarding the city’s interest in
purchasing the property. He stated both property owners are interested in
selling and would discuss this further in executive session.
49.   Mr. Scott also informed council that Jed Deters who is the Chairman of
the Code Enforcement Board/Ethics Board would be moving out of the city this
winter and the city will be looking to fill his position. He stated
applications for the position will be taken until November 15th.
50.   Mr. Scott advised council that a Budget & Finance Committee meeting needs
to be scheduled.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
51.   Mr. Barbian reported that nineteen single-family building permits were
issued last month. He also advised a Planning & Zoning Committee meeting would
be scheduled to discuss the revision of the building and zoning permit fees.
Zoning Administrator – Melissa Bradford
52.   Ms. Bradford reported many of the zoning violations are being cleaned up.
Mr. Feldhaus requested more information in Ms. Bradford’s monthly report to
council.
Police Department – Ed Porter
53.   Chief Porter reported that the Wynnbrooke Apartments off Industrial Road
are under a new management group who is not supportive of the Block Watch
Program. It looks like this Block Watch group will disband. He also reported
that Lt. Butler graduated last Friday from the Criminal Justice Executive
Development Program.
54.   Mrs. Yeager reported that the Park and Ride lot has recently been
landscaped. She also stated that the following grants have been awarded to the
city from Cinergy: $500.00 for the Christmas Walk, $500.00 for a Children’s
Summer Program, $500.00 for the Walking Trails and $3,000.00 for the
construction of an amphitheater at Memorial Park.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
55.   Mayor Kriege reminded council of the Municipal Government League’s Annual
Dinner on Saturday night and requested they make reservations with the City
Clerk.
Mrs. Yeager also reminded council the Annual Christmas Walk & Tour will be held
on December 8th from 6-9 p.m.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
56.   Mr. Whitacre reported that a striping plan is underway as they are
getting proposals.
57.   Mr. Steffen inquired about the cost estimates for the drainage basin
needed in the Hunters Green common area. Mr. Whitacre stated the estimate for a
holding pond is in the $30,000.00 range. Mayor Kriege suggested the matter be
placed on the agenda for the December meeting and in the meantime the city
attorney will review the common area on Hunters Green Subdivision.
Miscellaneous Matters
58.   Mr. Feldhaus reported that Cincinnati Bell is not moving the poles on
Madison Pike near the Independence Towne Center. Mr. Scott stated he would call
to get a time schedule from Cincinnati Bell to see when they would have funds
available to move the poles so that sidewalks could be installed.
59.   Mr. Steffen reported he has received a letter from relatives of Sheriff
Hopperton. The relatives would like to pay for the cost of a plaque that would
memorialize Sheriff Hopperton. Mr. Steffen stated he would like the city to pay
for the cost of the plaque. Mrs. Yeager stated the city has already agreed to
do this at Memorial Park.
Executive Session
60.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to go into executive session in accordance with
K.R.S. 61.810 (1b) for the purpose of discussing possible land acquisition. Mr.
Feldhaus seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
61.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mr.
Steffen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
62.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 11:00 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
DECEMBER 6, 1999
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison,
Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in
attendance were Gary Scott, City Administrator and H. Lawson Walker, City
Attorney.
2.   Mayor Kriege introduced Lt. Shawn Butler and announced that he recently
graduated from Advanced Leadership Training. Mayor Kriege congratulated Lt.
Butler and presented him with an engraved pewter cup.
3.   Mr. Dupps requested an executive session at the end of the regular meeting
to discuss the Kenton County jail site lawsuit.
Approval of Council Minutes
4.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the regular
meeting of November 1, 1999 as amended. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
OLD BUSINESS
Proposed Map Amendment by Keeney Development for Manor Hill Subdivision on
Marshall Road
5.   Mayor Kriege stated that at the previous council meeting the council heard
the debate regarding the proposed map amendment by the Keeney Development
Company for property on Marshall Road. He asked council if they needed to
discuss this matter further. Mr. Feldhaus commented that Kenton County Fiscal
Court has only had a first reading regarding this map amendment wherein they
gave initial approval to the change. Mrs. Gabbard asked if the developer would
be asking for annexation of “Area A” into the city limits. Mr. Dusing stated
that hadn’t been decided. Mr. Feldhaus stated that “Area A” had the smaller lot
sizes. Mrs. Gabbard wondered what control the city would have over the county
section of this development. Mayor Kriege stated that the council is only
taking action on the section that is within the city limits. Mr. Walker advised
that part of Kenton County Area Planning Commission’s recommendation for
approval of the development was that both the city and the county must support
the zone change.
6.   Mrs. Gabbard again questioned Mr. Dusing why the Keeney’s have not asked
for annexation for “Area A” of this development. Mr. Dusing stated it wasn’t
necessary as the site plan is within the Comprehensive Plan. Mr. Feldhaus
commented that the lot sizes do not meet the R-1B zone; the density is smaller
with smaller lot size.
7.   Mrs. Gabbard expressed concern regarding the 1994 ordinance requiring
annexation to any property outside the city that wished to tap into the city
sewer system and how the city will recover sufficient debt reduction fees to
retire this debt. She stated she doesn’t see how the city will benefit. Mr.
Feldhaus stated that since the Sanitation District now owns the city sewer
system there is no requirement to be annexed into the city for sewer services.
He also stated that the Fowler Creek Sewer Project was planned for the existing
city area, not property outside the city limits. Mrs. Gabbard asked if the 1994
ordinance had been repealed. Mr. Ellison commented that if the city no longer
owns the sewer system then the ordinance automatically becomes null and void.
Mr. Walker advised that the Sanitation District now lease the sewer lines to
the city.
8.   Mr. Dusing stated there was never any intention by the developer to
request annexation into the city but that it could be arranged if that would
become a requirement for the approval of this map amendment. Mrs. Gabbard
stated she would like to see that promise in a written contract.
9.   Mr. Steffen stated that his biggest concern was that the request for a PUD
was just a RCD in disguise.
Motion to hold a Public Hearing on the Manor Hill Development Map Amendment
Request
10.   Further discussion resulted in Mr. Steffen making a motion to have a
full-scale public hearing on the Manor Hill Development, seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Mr. Feldhaus stated he didn’t see the point in having a public hearing
as the Kenton County Fiscal Court and the Kenton County Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission held public hearings. Mrs. Yeager stated she did not feel any
new information would be revealed at another public hearing. Mr. Feldhaus
stated the audience was free to ask any questions at this meeting. Mayor Kriege
called for a vote. Roll call vote yielded two yes votes and four no votes cast
by Mrs. Yeager, Mr. Feldhaus, Mr. Dupps, and Mr. Ellison. Motion to have a
public hearing on the Manor Hill Development defeated 4-2 against.
11.   Mr. Steffen went on to read the definition of a PUD zone which allows
commercial development along with residential. Mr. Feldhaus stated the
developer has agreed not to institute other portions of a PUD zone. Mr. Steffen
stated that he felt this was clear attempt by the developer to get around the
existing zoning ordinance. He stated this site plan calls for strictly
residential with no mix of development. Mr. Ellison stated an RCD overlay has a
reduced lot size and with PUD you cannot make the lots smaller than the
restriction. Mr. Walker advised that while a PUD zone allows a greater mix, the
ordinance does not require the development to have more than single family
residences. He went on to say that if the use were changed the developer would
have to come back to the city for approval.
12.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Dusing if he would like to respond. Mr. Dusing
stated that a PUD zone does not require a mix of development but rather allows
a mix. He stated the developer feels this property is not an appropriate site
for commercial structures and by using the PUD zone it will allow for better
use of the greenspace, water management, etc. At this time Mr. Dusing submitted
a hand-written agreement wherein Keeney Development would request annexation
into the city as a condition of the zone change approval.
13.   Mrs. Gabbard commented that the planned development looked beautiful but
would like to see some of the homes in the rear area cut from the plan. Mr.
Dusing stated that in order to plan the management of the storm water that
there needed to be a mixture of lot sizes to make this site plan work.
14.   Mr. Steffen expressed concern with having the property open to R-1C
zoning and stated that if it met the R-1B zone with nineteen less lots he
wouldn’t have a problem with the site plan.
15.   At this time the floor was opened for comments from the audience. Mr.
Walker instructed the council to disregard anything said here and reminded them
that they just voted not to hold a public hearing on this matter.
16.   Mr. Jim Knarr, 10157 Marshall Road, stated that he lives downstream of
the planned development site. He stated there is a real issue with flooding in
the area. He would like to see the current R-1B zone go unchanged to keep the
neighborhood the way it is.
17.   Mr. Jeff Jarboe, 5468 Madison Pike, stated that he would like the city to
obtain a permit from the Corp of Engineers approving the construction of the
planned detention ponds for this development. He told council that their
constituents want them to vote against this map amendment.
18.   There was a brief discussion about Mr. Jarboe’s suggestion and Mr. Dusing
stated that the detention ponds would require approval from the Corp of
Engineers.
19.   Mr. Feldhaus expressed concern with the current flooding in the area even
with the planned detention ponds. He wondered if the city would be creating
another Banklick Creek watershed and if this would constitute a reason to
reject the project. He also stated that even though the Kenton County Fiscal
Court gave initial approval to the development he would like to wait to see if
they give final approval before making his decision.
20.   Mr. Ellison stated the Banklick Creek flooding problem has been going on
for over thirty years and doesn’t feel the city is responsible. He also
commented that the city is only deciding on the fifty-three acres of this
development that is within the city limits. He stated that under the current
zone one hundred six houses could be built and the Keeney’s site plan calls for
seventy-three houses.
21.   Mrs. Yeager commented this was a hard decision and Mrs. Gabbard
concurred. Mrs. Gabbard added that the council is here to watch guard the whole
city and feels the development will create problems for the current residents.
22.   Mr. Walker advised council that in order to turn down this map amendment
they would have to make factual findings from the public hearings held by the
Fiscal Court and Kenton County Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission that
would prove the recommendation is not in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan. Council would also have to state why the recommended zone change is
inappropriate for the area. Mr. Walker also advised that if council does
nothing by January 5, 2000, then the zone change would be automatic on that
date. He reminded council their next regular council meeting is scheduled for
January 3, 2000 and it will take two readings of an ordinance if they plan to
turn down this zone change.
23.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to take a brief recess; seconded by Mr.
Feldhaus. After briefly discussing the reason for the brief recess with Mr.
Walker Mrs. Gabbard withdrew her motion to recess and Mr. Feldhaus withdrew his
second. Mr. Walker also advised this matter could not be discussed in a closed
executive session, as it does not meet the conditions required by K.R.S.
24.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a first reading of a proposed ordinance
(1999-O-15) to approve the recommendation by the Kenton County Municipal
Planning & Zoning Commission to rezone area “B” of the Keeney property on
Marshall Road from R-1C to R-1C (PUD) overlay in conformance with the
Comprehensive Plan. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call vote was
answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen. Motion passed
with 5-1 in favor.
Motion to take a Brief Recess
25.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to take a brief recess; seconded by Mr. Dupps.
Motion carried with all ayes.
26.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to resume regular session; seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion of Proposed Ordinance to Amend the Building/Zoning Permit Fees
27.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to table the discussion and possible first
reading of the proposed ordinance to amend the building/zoning permit fees and
send back to the committee as no representatives from the Home Builders
Association was present at the last committee meeting. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Kriege stated that he promised Mr.
Wiedeman at the last council meeting that the committee would work the Home
Builders Association to arrive at a fair increase in fees. Mr. Ellison
suggested the committee meet at the offices of the Home Builders Association as
they have reference materials there that could be helpful. Mayor Kriege
suggested scheduling a meeting for next week. Roll call vote was answered with
five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 5-1 in
favor.
Discussion of a Proposed Resolution for a Referendum Imposing a Tax Levy for
Parks & Recreation
28.   Mr. Steffen addressed council about a resolution he is proposing that
would place a referendum on the November 2000 general election ballot that
would impose a tax levy to raise funds for the development and operation of the
city parks. He stated that last month he submitted this resolution for
council’s review and the tax rate was .05 cents on each $100 of taxable
property but has revised that to .03 cents per $100 valuation which would
amount to $30.00 per year on a house valued at $100,000. He stated a Park Board
would be appointed by the council to manage the budget and operation of the
parks. He said this tax would generate $150,000 per year for the operation of
the city parks and urged the council to pass this resolution. Mrs. Yeager was
concerned what role the Independence Recreation Committee members would have
with the establishment of a Park Board. She stated she would like to see the
current IRC members be a part of the Park Board.
29.   Mr. Feldhaus stated he had a problem asking for a tax levy when the city
is sitting on a $1M surplus and some areas of the current budget have some
“fat”. Mrs. Gabbard commented that some areas of the budget are over. Mr. Scott
advised council that some line items in the current budget are over but that
the department totals have not gone over what was budgeted. Mrs. Gabbard and
Mrs. Feldhaus agreed that they need to take a look at the budget. Mr. Ellison
stated that the parks have steadily improved over the last few years without
overburdening the city budget. He stated that he thinks it is premature at this
time to be asking for a tax levy for the parks and instead the city should be
looking at cost saving measures.
30.   Mr. Steffen stated that if the tax referendum passed in November 2000,
then this council would have the opportunity to appoint the members to the
first Park Board before the end of their terms. Mr. Steffen stated the IRC
members voted 9-2 in support of this referendum. He felt the current IRC
members could serve on the new Park Board.
31.   Mr. Dupps stated he liked the idea of having designated funds just for
the parks and felt this would free up additional funds for other city projects
like sidewalks.
32.   Mr. Walker advised that what is enacted by referendum could only be
rescinded by referendum. So that the .03 cents per $100 valuation could only be
increased/decreased by referendum.
33.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to read the proposed resolution proposing a
public referendum for property tax to be levied on parks and recreation and to
be placed on the November 2000 general election ballot. Mrs. Gabbard seconded
the motion. Roll call was answered with a 4-2 vote against; no votes cast by
Mr. Feldhaus, Mrs. Yeager, Mr. Dupps, and Mr. Ellison. Motion defeated.
NEW BUSINESS
Resolution Approving Transfer of Fire Station to the Kenton County Fiscal Court
34.   Mr. Walker submitted to council correspondence from Kenton County
Attorney, Garry Edmondson wherein the Fiscal Court is requesting the city pass
a resolution granting the Mayor the power to sign the Bill of Sale along with a
quitclaim deed for the sale of the Fire Station located at 5278 Madison Pike.
The Fiscal Court is purchasing the building from the Independence Fire
District. He explained they are requesting the city be involved in the transfer
of this property by way of signing a quitclaim deed for the purpose of
clarifying the record title and to give back any arguable interest the city may
have in the property. He stated that at one time the property was subject to a
lease to the city, which was assigned to the Fire District.
35.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to read the proposed resolution authorizing Mayor
Kriege to execute any and all documents necessary to complete the sale and
transfer of property located at 5278 Madison Pike from the Independence Fire
District/City of Independence to the Kenton County Fiscal Court. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 1999-R-10.
36.   In a brief discussion Mr. Feldhaus expressed some concern over how the
county plans to utilize the building. He stated that at one time there was talk
about expanding their garage operations on that site. He was concerned that
this would no be an appropriate place for that type of operation in light of
the city’s plans to revitalize the downtown area. Mr. Ellison thought the city
gave up any interest in the property many years ago.
37.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt Resolution No.1999-R-10; seconded by
Mr. Ellison. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by
Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried 5-1.
Discussion of Amendments to the Personnel Policy
38.   A proposed resolution was submitted to council with the revisions of the
current personnel policy as recommended by the Personnel Policy Committee.
There was discussion of retirement benefits and unused sick time. Employees
currently accrue 1.5 hours of sick leave every pay period and council discussed
removing that accrued time benefit as the city carries short and long-term
disability insurance policy. Mr. Steffen questioned when the city approved a
new Recreation Department under the organizational chart. Mr. Steffen also felt
the police officers should receive their service weapon upon retirement and
would like to see that benefit remain in the policy. Council also discussed
removing or decreasing the longevity pay currently paid to the employees the
first pay period in December. Mr. Walker stated this might be grandfathered in
as it is being paid as wages.
39.   Mayor Kriege asked the Personnel Committee to take council’s suggestions
back for review and advised council to be prepared to take action on this
resolution at the next council meeting in January 2000.
40.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to table any further discussion or action on
the revisions of the Personnel Policy. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
First Reading of Proposed Ordinance to Amend Ordinance 1993-O-2 Relating to
Mayor/Council Compensation
41.   Mr. Steffen submitted to council a proposed ordinance to amend Ordinance
1993-O-2 relating to the compensation of the city’s elected officers. He stated
the proposed ordinance would add a new subsection that would state beginning on
March 1, 2004 the compensation of all elected city officials would be adjusted
by the amount of change in the consumer price index of the preceding year as
calculated by the Department of Local Government. He felt by adding this
subsection it would be unnecessary to revise this ordinance every few years. He
stated the proposed ordinance would also increase the Mayor’s salary from
$5,000 to $6,000 per year beginning with the next Mayor’s term on January 1,
2003 and increase the salary of council members from $1,000 to $3,000 effective
January 1, 2001.
42.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a first reading of a proposed ordinance
to amend Ordinance 1993-O-2 relating to the compensation of the elected city
officials. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with
four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Ellison. Motion
carried 4-2 in favor.
Discussion Relating to Imposing a Bank Franchise & Local Deposit Tax
43.   Mr. Steffen reported that he had submitted the proposed ordinance that
would impose a bank franchise and local deposit tax but suggested discussion of
this matter be delayed as he is waiting on further information regarding this
type of tax. There was a brief discussion wherein Mr. Walker advised council
that fewer cities are getting any income from this tax as each bank’s main
branch is credited for the deposits, therefore many of the local cities have
lost revenue as headquarters move to a larger city. Mr. Steffen stated he may
bring this back in the future.
NEW BUSINESS
Discussion Regarding the Upgrading of City Classification from 5th Class to 3rd
Class
44.   Council Member, Mr. Steffen introduced a resolution that would upgrade
the city’s classification from fifth class to third class. He stated that he
feels there are many benefits to be had by upgrading to third class. He
reported that most fifth class cities have a population of 1,000 to 3,000.and
with our current population approaching 15,000 we would meet the third class
classification. He stated that even though many of the powers of a third class
city would not be of interest to Independence, just the recognition that comes
with the upgrade would aide Independence in becoming one of the important
cities in Northern Kentucky.
45.   Mrs. Gabbard stated that she feels this reclassification is long overdue.
Mr. Feldhaus stated he doesn’t see the benefit of moving up to third class city
and expressed concern that it could cost the city. Mr. Ellison requested the
city attorney research this matter. Mr. Walker stated that it is clear the city
is eligible and advised the main requirements for a third class city is that
the city must provide police and fire services. Mayor Kriege suggested the city
attorney review the possibility of upgrading the city to third class and table
further discussion until the next regular meeting. Mr. Steffen stated he would
withdraw the resolution until then.
Miscellaneous Matters of Discussion
46.   Mr. Ellison stated that the Schoborg and Lipscomb properties on Madison
Pike are having trouble getting their property lines between county and city
affirmed. Mr. Scott stated that he is currently working with Mike Schwartz of
Northern Kentucky Area Planning & Zoning to get this matter resolved.
47.   Mr. Ellison also reported that trucks are being parked illegally around
town. Mr. Scott stated they continue to work on this as they are reported.
48.   Mr. Ellison reported that he is receiving complaints that city employees
are being rude and would like to see the city institute a “citizen contact
card” to provide the residents with a way to voice their complaints. Mr. Scott
stated he would look into getting these cards.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
49.   Mr. Scott reported he is working on a proposal for the purchase of the
properties on Madison Pike in the area of the courthouse. He will make a full
recommendation to council soon.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
50.   Mr. Barbian reported that two new subdivisions will be getting underway
soon – Bradleigh Woods of off Route 16 near Rickey Lane and Claiborne Farms
near the Lakefield Subdivision, also off of Route 16. He stated that he issued
twenty-four single-family building permits for the month of November and there
seems to be no signs of slowing down for the winter.
51.   Mr. Feldhaus questioned Mr. Barbian regarding the recent application for
a text amendment that was made for the addition of roller rinks. Mr. Scott
answered Mr. Feldhaus by stating the city’s Planning & Zoning Committee made
the application to NKAPZ and when the recommendation is received from them it
would be brought to the full council for a final vote. Mr. Feldhaus wanted to
know how it got that far without coming to the full council as the full
council, not the committee, is the applicant and there should have been a
majority vote as to whether or not this type of text amendment is desired. Mr.
Ellison concurred with Mr. Feldhaus. They stated this could well have been a no
vote and time and expenses would have been saved if the committee knew there
was not a majority of council to back this text amendment. Mr. Feldhaus stated
that committees are not supposed to take action, rather any and all
recommendations from committees should come before council. Mr. Feldhaus went
on to express concern about roller rinks being a conditional use for all zones,
as is part of the text amendment applied for.
52.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion that all applications for text and zone
changes must come before council for approval; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll
call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen.
Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
53.   Mr. Walker advised the ninety-day requirement for action by city council
does not apply on text amendments. He also reported that the roller rink text
amendment was disapproved by the NKAPC staff but approved by the Kenton County
Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission.
54.   Mr. Steffen asked Mr. Barbian to inspect the grading at the Bradleigh
Woods subdivision, as it appears they have not graded for sidewalks. Mr.
Feldhaus asked Mr. Barbian to investigate why Cincinnati Bell has not moved the
telephone poles on Madison Pike to make way for the sidewalks. After a brief
discussion it was decided that Mr. Walker would work with Mr. Barbian on this
matter and discuss what action to take.
Police Department – Ed Porter
55.   Chief Porter reviewed the Blockwatch report that was submitted in the
council packets. He also mentioned the need for sidewalks on Madison Pike, in
light of the recent fatality near Summit View Schools.
56.   Mr. Feldhaus discussed possible ways to alert the residents of the snow
emergency ordinance the city adopted a few years ago. It was suggested that a
notice be put in the Kenton County Recorder and the city newsletter.
57.   Mr. Ellison requested a more detailed report from the Police Department,
other than the Blockwatch Program. Mayor Kriege commented that the Police
Department’s annual report gives more detailed information. Chief Porter stated
that the City Administrator gets a detailed report every month.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
58.   Ms. Brake reported the streetlight poles on Hartland Boulevard would be
lit this week. She also invited everyone to attend the third annual Christmas
Walk and Tour that will be held on Wednesday, December 8, 1999 from 6-9 p.m.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
59.   Mr. Whitacre reported that the developer of the Independence Towne Center
is responsible for the striping of the streets. Likewise, the developer of the
Liberty Orchard Subdivision is also responsible for striping the streets.
60.   He also reported that work is beginning on a road repair list for next
year. Mr. Dupps asked if the streets incurred any damage this past summer as a
result of the drought. Mr. Whitacre replied no.
Finance Committee Report
61.   Mr. Scott announced that a Finance Committee meeting would be scheduled
the first week in January to begin working on the 2000/2001 Budget.
Public Safety Committee Report
62.   Mr. Dupps reported the committee is looking into crosswalks, sidewalks,
and the speed limits on Madison Pike. Mayor Kriege asked that they review the
school zone areas
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
63.   Mayor Kriege announced that he would like to re-appoint Donna Yeager as
the city’s OKI representative.
64.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to approve Mayor Kriege’s recommendation to
appoint Donna Yeager to the OKI Board; seconded by Mr. Feldhaus. Roll call was
answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
65.   Mayor Kriege also announced that Judge Murgatroyd has disclosed that the
Elsmere site for the new Kenton County jail has been eliminated.
66.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mayor Kriege how the city’s new website was coming
along. Mayor Kriege stated it was still in the development stages, but would be
up soon.
67.   Mr. Steffen asked Mayor Kriege why the adoption of the Strategic Plan was
not on the agenda. Mayor Kriege stated that the Plan is being restructured and
he will bring it back to council at a later date.
Adjournment
68.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 10:40 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2000 Minutes
JANUARY 3, 2000
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison,
Barbara Gabbard, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Mayor Kriege announced
that Council Member Eric Dupps was absent because he was on vacation. Also in
attendance was Gary Scott, City Administrator. H. Lawson Walker, City Attorney
was in attendance, but arrived at 7:30.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the regular
meeting of December 6, 1999 as amended. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion passed 5-0.
Welcome to Independence Boy Scout Troop #8
3.   Mayor Kriege recognized Independence Boy Scout Troop #8 who were attending
the meeting as part of earning their citizenship badge. He welcomed them and
encouraged their efforts.
PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
4.   Mr. Bob Auton, 10918 Marshall Road, addressed Mayor Kriege and council to
voice his appreciation of Mr. Feldhaus, Mr. Ellison and Mrs. Yeager efforts to
provide Christmas for fifteen needy families in the community. He stated that
he had discussed the matter with them shortly before Christmas and they quickly
worked to provide food and gifts for the families. Mr. Feldhaus thanked Mr.
Kurt Prather who, with very short notice, managed to come up with donated gifts
for forty-seven children from the Toys for Tots program. Mr. Ellison and Mr.
Feldhaus concurred that they would like to start earlier next year to provide
needy families in the community with Christmas. Mr. Feldhaus also thanked
Captain Chuck Baird for the donated items from the Independence Fire District.
5.   Mr. Wayne Riley, 10871 Marshall Road, addressed council with his concerns
regarding needed safety measures near the city’s schools. He stated the morning
and afternoon traffic is a mess in the Simon Kenton High School area and asked
what the city could do to help the situation. Mayor Kriege advised that changes
are in the planning stages but may be some time before completion. Chief Porter
advised that following the fatality on Madison Pike in the vicinity of Summit
View Schools, he has written the state requesting crosswalks and the speed
limit be reduced to 25 mph. He received a reply that the state is researching
his request. He stated he would send a follow up letter requesting the decision
be expedited. There was a brief discussion regarding the possible installation
of traffic lights. Chief Porter advised the police department has taken safety
measures in the past by running radar and issuing citations.
City Administrator – Scheduling of Committee Meetings
6.   Mr. Scott announced the dates of the following committee meetings:
Personnel Committee will meet on 1-11-00 at 7:00 p.m. at the City Building
Building Committee will meet on 1-13-00 at 7:00 p.m. at the City Building
Finance/Budget Committee will meet on 1-17-00 at 7:00 p.m. at the City Building
Public Safety Committee will meet on 1-18-00 at 5:30 p.m. at the Police Offices
Public Works Committee will meet on 1-20-00 at 7:00 p.m. at the City Building
Recreation – Nita Brake
7.   Ms. Brake distributed a monthly report to council. She advised that the
required paperwork has been submitted to the state for $11,000 for
reimbursement of expenses for the walking trails grant in Memorial Park. She
stated that approximately 1.5 miles of asphalt has been laid for the trails and
that the city will recoup .38 cents on every $1.00. There was a brief
discussion about inviting the area schools to use the trails for their track
programs. She stated she is currently scheduling summer youth activities and
planning the July 4th parade and festivities.
Police Department – Ed Porter
8.   Chief Porter reviewed the Blockwatch report that was submitted in the
council packets. There was a brief discussion regarding a salary survey
conducted by the Northern Kentucky Area Development District that showed the
pay rates for the Independence Police Department were below average in the
Northern Kentucky area. Mr. Feldhaus questioned whether this rate included
overtime pay. Mr. Scott stated the survey did not include overtime hours paid.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
9.   Mr. Whitacre stated the past month has been relatively inactive as all
asphalt paving project have been completed. Reference was made to the balance
of funds in the budget for street repairs. Mr. Scott stated the remaining funds
would be spent in the spring for pothole repairs, etc.
10.   Mrs. Yeager asked what was being done regarding the pond in the common
area of Hunters Green subdivision. She was concerned, as it is becoming
detrimental to some of the surrounding property. Mr. Whitacre stated that the
pond has acted as a detention basin and provides extra protection downstream.
He stated cost estimates could be obtained. It would cost more to make it a
pond and less expensive to use it as a detention area. A brief discussion
ensued on the legality of the city performing work on this property without the
proper easements and possible solutions to this problem. Mayor Kriege asked Mr.
Whitacre to prepare cost figures and maps to be discussed at the Public Works
Committee meeting on January 20, 2000 so the committee could make a
recommendation for action to the council.
11.   Mr. Whitacre reported he has notified the Kenton County & Municipal
Planning & Zoning Commission, who in turn notified the developer of the
Independence Town Center to install the turn lane and striping. He stated that
KCMP&Z apparently did not set a deadline for this work to be done by the
developers. He stated he would follow up with KCMP&Z to get a more reasonable
response as to when this work will be completed.
Proposed Map Amendment by Keeney Development for Manor Hill Subdivision on
Marshall Road
12.   Motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mrs. Yeager to have a second reading
of proposed Ordinance No. 2000-O-01 approving the map amendment requested by
Keeney Development for property on Marshall Road to be known as Manor Hill
Subdivision. Roll call vote was answered with four yes votes and one no vote
cast by Mr. Steffen. Mrs. Gabbard clarified her vote by stating she voted yes
with annexation of the entire subdivision into the city. Motion carried 4-1.
Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
13.   Motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mrs. Yeager to adopt Ordinance No.
2000-O-01 as read. A lengthy discussion included concerns by Mr. Feldhaus
regarding the control of storm water runoff to prevent flooding downstream and
Mrs. Gabbard’s interest in who would maintain the road borders and other
greenspace. Mr. Keeney stated the homeowners’ association would provide for the
maintenance of the common grounds.
14.   Mr. Steffen spoke against this planned development by stating the city
already has hundreds of acres zoned R-1C and he felt it was a bad idea to
loosen up this zone by changing the zone to include (PUD).
15.   With a motion and second on the floor to approve this map amendment roll
call vote cast four yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen. Motion
carried 4-1.
Proposal for Text Amendment relating to Roller Rinks
16.   Mr. Tom Breidenstein, legal counsel for Dale Roland, addressed council
regarding the text amendment the city has made application for with regard to
roller rinks. He urged council to approve Kenton County & Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission’s favorable recommendation for this amendment, as it is
consistent with other land uses of this type. Mayor Kriege opened the
discussion for council comments. Mr. Feldhaus stated that NKAP&Z’s staff
recommendation was to deny this zoning text amendment and cited the main reason
was because roller rinks are more conducive to commercial development areas.
Mr. Feldhaus agreed with the staff recommendation and felt that approval of
this amendment would place commercial activity in residential zones. He stated
Mr. Roland should look into placing this type of structure in a neighborhood
commercial area. Mr. Steffen stated the Planning & Zoning Committee applied for
this text amendment because Independence has no where to place this and the
committee felt it was a worthwhile endeavor. He stated that even with the text
amendment, final approval would have to come from the Board of Adjustments. He
commented that golf courses, country clubs, and swimming pools are currently
allowed as a conditional use in residential areas. Mr. Breidenstein stated that
the Board of Adjustments would have the power to impose conditions, such as
hours of operation, etc. Mrs. Gabbard expressed concerns of evening traffic and
security lights for surrounding residential homes and also considered this type
of development more suitable for a commercial area. Mr. Roland read a prepared
statement urging the approval of this text amendment. Mr. Feldhaus stated he
has a big problem with the effect this will have on residential areas.
17.   Motion was made by Mr. Steffen and seconded by Mrs. Yeager to have a
first reading of the proposed ordinance to approve the zoning text amendment
relating to the inclusion of roller rinks in residential areas. Roll call vote
was answered with three yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and Mr.
Ellison. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Second Reading of Proposed Ordinance to Amend Ordinance 1993-O-2 Relating to
Mayor/Council Compensation
18.   Motion was made by Mr. Steffen and seconded by Mrs. Gabbard to have a
second reading of proposed Ordinance No. 2000-O-02 relating to Mayor and
Council Members compensation. Roll call vote was answered with three yes votes
and two no votes cast by Mr. Ellison and Mr. Feldhaus. Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance.
19.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-02 seconded by
Mrs. Gabbard. A brief discussion ensued. Mrs. Yeager stated that she didn’t
feel a raise in compensation was necessary but did like the addition of the
subsection that would provide for an automatic annual adjustment based on the
amount of change in the consumer price index. Mr. Steffen stated the city has
grown tremendously and felt an increase in compensation may entice more
candidates to run for office. Mayor Kriege commented that the Mayor’s stipend
was not a factor when he filed to run for the office and feels that most people
do not take that into consideration when filing for office. Mr. Feldhaus stated
he feels the current compensation is adequate. He also stated that he thinks
the majority of candidates that ran in the last election didn’t even know what
the salary was, with thirteen candidates filing for six council positions and
six candidates for the office of Mayor. Mr. Ellison commented that he doesn’t
feel elected offices are money driven. Mayor Kriege explained that this raise
in compensation would be given to the winners of the next council and mayor
elections and not the officials currently holding the positions. There was a
brief discussion of adjusting the amounts being proposed (from $5,000 to $6,000
for the mayor and from $1,000 to $3,000 for each council member). Mr. Walker
explained that if the adjustments were made, then the reading of the ordinance
would become a new first reading, not a second reading. Roll call vote was
answered with three yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and Mr.
Ellison. Motion carried 3-2.
Discussion Regarding the Upgrading of City Classification from 5th Class to 3rd
Class
20.   Mr. Walker presented to council the research he compiled with regard to
upgrading from fifth class to third class. He stated that the biggest change
for Independence would be the electoral process as third class cities are
required to hold a primary election with a filing deadline in January if
thirteen or more run for council or three or more run for the office of mayor.
Also the city would have the option to adopt the civil service regulations. He
stated the city is already in compliance with a Police Department requirement
and he believes the courts would sanction the Independence Fire District to
continue providing fire protection.
21.   Mr. Steffen pointed out that the last election would have been better if
the city had a primary election to eliminate some of the six people running for
the office of mayor. Mr. Feldhaus stated the primary election was abolished
several years ago due in part to the January filing date. Mr. Steffen commented
that Erlanger and Covington have primary elections and never seem to lack for
candidates.
22.   Mr. Ellison stated that as a third class city Independence would be
required to establish an Alcohol Beverage Board. He also felt the city should
consider a gradual change in class and not jumping from fifth to third.
23.   Mrs. Gabbard stated she felt that increasing the city’s class to third
would raise the status of Independence and gives the city more options. Mr.
Ellison stated he doesn’t see where Independence would gain more benefits or
powers and that social status is unimportant.
24.   Mr. Steffen stated that the current population of Independence warrants
the upgrade to third class. He also stated that he doesn’t see the primary
election as a bad thing. Mr. Feldhaus maintained that the city isn’t loosing
anything by remaining a fifth class city and has heard no compelling reason to
change the status. Mr. Steffen and Mrs. Gabbard insisted there were no
disadvantages to increasing the city’s class.
25.   Mr. Walker advised council there was a time restraint in making this
decision as the resolution would need to be decided no later than March in
order to petition the current legislative session for the change in class. Mr.
Steffen requested further discussion and possible action on the proposed
resolution be continued at the next regular meeting of council.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
26.   Mayor Kriege announced the annual Planning Session of Council is
scheduled for January 28 and 29 at the Holiday Inn in Fort Mitchell. After a
brief discussion it was decided to re-schedule for February 10, 11, & 12, 2000
as Mr. Steffen is unable to attend weekend sessions. The extra day would
include a Thursday evening so Mr. Steffen could participate in that session.
27.   Mayor Kriege announced he received a letter from employees of the police
department expressing misgivings regarding council’s plans to delete some of
the current benefits while revising the Personnel Policy. He advised council
that he will make himself available at different roll calls in order to listen
to their concerns in person.
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
28.   Mr. Scott addressed the need to amend the current budget to include the
position of Recreation Director. Mayor Kriege suggested the funds for this
position be pulled from another account. Mrs. Gabbard questioned whether a job
description had been created. Mayor Kriege added that the job description
should be included in the personnel policy and the pay plan.
Executive Session
29.   At 9:20 p.m. Mr. Ellison made a motion to go into executive session for
the purpose of discussing possible land acquisition and pending lawsuits in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (b) and (c); seconded by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion
carried with all ayes.
30.   Motion made by Mr. Ellison seconded by Mrs. Yeager to return to regular
session. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
31.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Motion
carried with all ayes. Meeting adjourned at 10:05 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 7, 2000
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison,
Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in
attendance was Gary Scott, City Administrator and City Attorney, H. Lawson
Walker.
Presentation of Plaque to Preston Tillett
2.   Mayor Kriege presented H. Preston Tillett with a plaque as a token of the
city’s appreciation of the twenty-five years of service Mr. Tillett contributed
by holding office as a city council member and Board of Adjustments member. The
council members joined Mayor Kriege in thanking Mr. Tillett for his dedication
to the city.
Report on the AT&T cell tower
3.   Mayor Kriege introduced Peggy Murphy, legal counsel for the city in the
lawsuit filed against AT&T to prevent them from erecting a cell tower in the
Independence Cemetery. Ms. Murphy reported that after many claims were filed in
court and many months of hearings that Kenton County Circuit Judge Bartlett
ruled in favor of the City of Independence which has precluded AT&T from
placing the cell tower in the cemetery. She stated that Judge Bartlett has
agreed to grant a permanent injunction. She also advised council that AT&T has
thirty days from February 2, 2000 to file an appeal.
Approval of Council Minutes
4.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the regular
meeting of January 3, 2000 as amended. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with five ayes and one abstain cast by Mr. Dupps. Motion
carried 5-1.
Request from Independence Lions Club for Donation for the Annual Easter Egg
Hunt
5.   Ms. Karen Nitschke, Secretary for the Independence Lions Club requested
council to provide funds to sponsor the annual Easter Egg Hunt. She stated that
last year the city donated $600.00 for the hunt but because of the increase in
attendance at this event was requesting an increase in the amount allocated.
She stated that last year they ran short of prizes and would like to increase
the number of eggs.
6.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to donate $700.00 to the Independence Lions Club
annual Easter Egg Hunt; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll call was answered with
all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Text Amendment for Roller Rinks – Second Reading of Ordinance No. 2000-O-03
7.   Mrs. Gabbard began the discussion by asking Mr. Walker if it was necessary
to do a text amendment for roller rinks and questioned the Board of Adjustments
role with the zoning of this type. Mr. Walker stated that the Board of
Adjustments can only grant variances and conditional uses. Mr. Feldhaus
interjected that the other alternative would be to re-zone the property in
questions to meet an existing zone that already permits roller rinks. He voiced
his objection to this text amendment as he feels it will open all residential
areas to this type of structure. Mrs. Gabbard concurred and stated this was
also her concern.
8.   Mayor Kriege yielded the floor to Mr. Mark Smith, 747 Stephens Road, who
spoke in objection to this proposed text amendment. He stated that while he was
not against roller rinks, he was against placing them in residential areas. Mr.
Smith also sees this text amendment being challenged by other businesses. He
submitted a petition with forty-nine signatures against this text amendment.
9.   Mr. Dale Roland, who is requesting this text amendment, stated that he
views a roller rink as recreational rather than commercial and noted the city’s
two largest commercial properties are not accepting of a roller rink. He stated
the city’s Board of Adjustment would still have control, as the proposed text
amendment would require a conditional use permit.
10.   Motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Steffen to have a second reading of
the proposed ordinance to add roller rinks as a conditional use in residential
zones. Roll call yielded a 3-3-tie vote. Mr. Ellison stated that it was his
understanding that the mayor could not vote on zoning related matters. Mr.
Walker advised the mayor could break the tie vote for a second reading but
could not vote to adopt the ordinance. Mayor Kriege voted yes to break the tie.
Motion to have a second reading carried with a 4-3 vote.
11.   A lengthy discussion ensued. Mr. Feldhaus, Mr. Ellison and Mrs. Gabbard
spoke against the text amendment, both separately and collectively, for the
following reasons:
§   Jeopardizes residential areas and this amendment would be open to all
residential zones
§   Felt Mr. Roland could have requested a zone change for the property under
consideration
§   Felt Mr. Roland preferred residential property as it is less expensive than
commercial property
§   Commercially operated business more intrusive in a residential zone
§   KCP&Z staff recommended against this amendment
12.   Mr. Steffen, Mr. Dupps, and Mrs. Yeager spoke in favor of the text
amendment. They cited the following reasons for adoption:
§   As with all conditional uses, this would still have to go before the Board
of Adjustments and had faith the Board would exercise care with this type of
development
§   There are more residential than commercial locations in the city and many
undeveloped residential properties could be possible good locations.
§   Feels roller rinks are more recreational use than commercial.
§   Feels more control over a residential property with a conditional use than
having a zone change where any type of commercial business would be able to use
the land, which may pose potential problems.
§   Feels a conditional use could set the hours of operation, type of signage,
lighting, etc.
§   Feels it would be nice for the local children to have local recreational
facilities.
13.   Mayor Kriege stated that Independence is unique in that it has so much
residential property available. Mr. Roland commented that roller rinks are
neither commercial nor industrial. He advised the nine-acre site under
consideration is on Independence Road near the Bristow Road intersection; a
sparsely populated area. He stated the building would be designed to look like
a riding stable to conform to the environment. Mr. Roland held that the KC&MP&Z
Commission’s recommendation was based on the Comprehensive Plan.
14.   Mr. Mark Smith commented that permitting this type of conditional use in
a residential area would preclude notifying the surrounding neighbors as is
needed for a zone change. Consequently adjoining property owners would not be
aware this type of development was being considered in order to voice their
objections.
15.   Motion by Mr. Steffen and second by Mr. Dupps to adopt the proposed
ordinance to add roller rinks as a conditional use in residential zones. Before
roll call vote was taken, Mr. Walker advised that he believes the Mayor is able
to vote on a zoning matter but that it takes four members of a body to override
– if there is a tie vote then it passes. Roll call vote was answered with three
yes votes by Mr. Steffen, Mr. Dupps, and Mrs. Yeager; and three no votes cast
by Mrs. Gabbard, Mr. Feldhaus, and Mr. Ellison. Mr. Walker stated that because
the vote is tied that it is looked at as though council did not override Kenton
County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission’s recommendation to adopt. Mr.
Feldhaus questioned the city’s Planning and Zoning Committee’s authority to
make application for this text amendment without the majority of council
approving this. There was a brief discussion regarding how this is addressed in
the Kentucky Revised Statutes Section 100.
16.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to take a brief recess to research KRS Section
100; seconded by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried with all ayes.
17.   Upon motion by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mrs. Gabbard the meeting
resumed.
18.   Mr. Walker stated he stood by his recommendation, as he has no reason to
believe the application was defective because the city’s Planning & Zoning
Committee did not seek the approval of the full council before applying for the
amendment. Mr. Feldhaus disagreed with Mr. Walker’s conclusion. Mr. Scott
stated that he has signed other applications during the past two years he has
served as City Administrator. Mr. Feldhaus requested Mr. Walker research the
legality of this matter.
Proposed Annexation of the Unincorporated Section of the Manor Hill Subdivision
19.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to annex the unincorporated territory of the Manor Hill Subdivision
being developed by Keeney Development. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Resolution to Change the Classification of Independence from Fifth to
Third Class
20.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt Resolution 2000-R-01 requesting the
General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky to approve the city’s
reclassification from fifth class to third class. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered with three yes votes and three no votes cast by
Mr. Feldhaus, Mrs. Yeager and Mr. Ellison. Mayor Kriege voted yes; motion
carried 4-3 in favor.
Establishing a Main Street Revitalization Committee – Proposed Resolution
21.   Council was presented with three proposed resolutions regarding the plans
to revitalize the downtown area on Madison Pike. Zoning Administrator, Melissa
Bradford explained that two of the resolutions establish a committee – one for
Main Street Revitalizing and the other for Historic Preservation. Each
committee is needed in order to apply for funding for the programs. Mr. Scott
stated the resolutions would support a historical district on Madison Pike from
the old Independence Schoolhouse to the Independence Towne Center. Mr. Scott
stated the private homes in this area would not have restrictions imposed on
them; there would be a historical overlay providing for a mixture of both
commercial and residential.
22.   Mr. Feldhaus expressed concern about how this would affect the current
residents on Madison Pike and did not want to act on this without knowing all
the particulars. Mr. Scott stated the Boards would set up the guidelines.
Melissa stated they have met with the City of Bellevue and the City of Florence
to look into their Main Street Programs. Melissa stated that in order to meet
the deadline, it would be necessary to act on the resolution to establish a
Main Street Revitalizing Committee tonight. Mr. Ellison asked if anyone had met
with the downtown property owners. Mayor Kriege stated a town meeting was held
to discuss this program but it was poorly attended. Mrs. Gabbard felt that most
of the business owners are interested in keeping the area nice.
23.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to read and adopt Resolution 2000-R-02
declaring the intent to establish a Main Street Revitalizing Committee. Mrs.
Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one
no vote cast by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried 5-1
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
Discussion Regarding A Text Amendment for a Day Care Center in a NSC Zone
24.   Mr. Scott introduced Mr. Marty Neltner to council and informed them that
Mr. Neltner had recently purchased the Cherokee Bowl at 6445 Taylor Mill Road
in the Cherokee Shopping Center. Mr. Scott stated that Mr. Neltner will be
renovating the property with plans to move his business from Covington and
would like to get council’s initial approval for a text amendment that would
permit a conditional use for a day care in this Neighborhood Shopping Center
(NSC) zone. Mr. Scott went on to say the business will bring about sixty jobs
to Independence and that the day care would be an incentive for his current
employees to stay on when the business moves from the city to the suburbs.
25.   After a brief discussion Mayor Kriege instructed Mr. Barbian (Building
Inspector) to get the necessary information for the next Planning & Zoning
Committee meeting so that they can make a recommendation to council. Mr.
Neltner commented that he hopes the renovations will be complete by July.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
26.   Mr. Scott stated Mr. Whitacre had a conflict and could not attend
tonight’s meeting. He stated the Public Works Committee would be meeting with
Cardinal to review the street repair list and make a recommendation to council
at the March meeting.
27.   Mr. Ellison addressed the matter of the intersection of Madison Pike,
Sylvan Drive, and Patriot Way. He stated he has researched the original site
plan and found that it calls for southbound and northbound turn lanes on
Madison Pike. He stated he doesn’t understand why the developer has not
installed the lanes. He stated he feels the city should press the issue with
the developer (Scheben). He suggested sending a letter to Scheben and the
Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission advising the city would
withhold building permits for the Liberty Orchard Subdivision until the lanes
are installed. He stated this is a safety issue in that area of Madison Pike
and would like a firm commitment with a completion date, preferably before the
start of school in August. Council was in agreement.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
29.   Mr. Barbian stated the Planning & Zoning Committee met and is
recommending that council make application for a text amendment to the zoning
ordinance eliminating pole signs #7 & #9.
30.   Upon motion by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mr. Steffen council will make
application for a zoning text amendment to eliminate pole signs #7 & #9. Motion
carried 6-0 by roll call vote.
31.   Mr. Barbian requested a meeting of the Planning & Zoning Committee to be
tentatively scheduled for February 15, 2000 at 6:30 p.m.
32.   Mrs. Gabbard inquired if a time frame had been scheduled for the
installation of turn lanes at the Independence Towne Center. Mr. Barbian
replied that the city is waiting for Cincinnati Bell to move their telephone
poles. After a brief discussion it was decided that the city attorney would
work with Mr. Barbian to develop a strategy to get this issue resolved.
33.   Mr. Feldhaus inquired about sidewalks being installed in subdivision not
complying with ADA regulations. Mr. Barbian stated the Planning Commission has
recently changed the Subdivision Regulations to require sidewalks to conform to
ADA. Mr. Scott advised that Stage I developments may be considered as
grandfathered in.
Zoning Administrator – Melissa Bradford
34.   Mr. Feldhaus asked how many of the zoning violations that were cited in
January were rectified. She replied that none had complied yet but that the
violators had fourteen days from the time the letters were mailed.
Recreation – Nita Brake
35.   Ms. Brake reported the city should receive reimbursement of the Walking
Trails grant this month. She stated she is currently planning the July 4th
Celebration/Parade and the Summer Youth programs. She will draft a Calendar of
Events for distribution in the schools.
36.   Mr. Feldhaus commented that he has noticed the Park & Ride lot has been
plowed when it snows but suggested the city shovel the sidewalks in the area
also.
Police Department – Ed Porter
37.   Chief Porter reviewed the two letters council received in their packets
from the Transportation Cabinet. The letter dated January 27, 2000 from the
Cabinet promises to reduce the school speed zone on Madison Pike near Summit
View School from 35 mph to 25 mph.. Because of the congested area, the Cabinet
will also install a pedestrian crosswalk across Madison Pike at the Sylvan/
Patriot Way intersection. Chief Porter stated the changes will be made as
weather permits.
38.   Chief Porter also stated the Public Safety Committee will review Kenton
County’s vicious animals ordinance and they will schedule a meeting for later
this month. He stated that since the ordinance adopted by Kenton County
affected Independence that is was a mute issue at this point and probably
unnecessary for the city to adopt a similar ordinance.
39.   Chief Porter stated the police department has two new hires. Everett
Stahl started on February 2, 2000 and Kail Clifton will begin work the end of
February. He stated the department will also be conducting promotional exams
for sergeant and lieutenant.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
40.   Mayor Kriege stated the current budget would be amended, possibly at the
next meeting. He stated he will present a Budget Philosophy for the 2000/2001
Fiscal Year and hopes to adopt next year’s budget in early June.
Building Committee
41.   Mr. Scott stated the committee reviewed the architect bids submitted for
the construction of the Senior Citizens Center and recommends council authorize
the Mayor to inter into a contract with Moody/Nolan Stallworth.
42.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion, seconded by Mrs. Gabbard to authorize Mayor
Kriege to enter into a contract with Moody/Nolan Stallworth Architects for
their services for the Senior Citizen Center. Roll call was answered with all
ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
43.   Mayor Kriege told council he was impressed with Moody/Nolan Stallworth’s
staff that made a presentation to the Building Committee. The Mayor stated they
will lay out the entire program for the construction from beginning to end with
an assigned project manager that will handle the details. He stated the company
is based in Cincinnati.
Personnel Policy Committee
44.   Mayor Kriege stated discussion of the Personnel Policy would be placed on
the agenda for the Annual Planning Session with the hopes of finalizing the
revisions at the March council meeting.
Planning & Zoning Committee
45.   Meeting times was changed to the third Tuesday of the month at 5:30 p.m..
Public Works Committee
46.   Mr. Scott stated the engineer was not able to attend the last meeting, so
they will re-schedule.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
47.   Mayor Kriege reported that there is a vacancy on the Code Enforcement
Board/Ethics Board as the Chairman, Jed Deters has moved out of the city. He
recommended that council approve Richard Deters to fill the unexpired term.
48.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve the Mayor’s recommendation of
appointing Richard Deters to the Code Enforcement Board/Ethics Board. Mr.
Feldhaus seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and
two no votes cast by Mrs. Gabbard and Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 4-2. Mayor
Kriege read Executive Order 2000-EO-01.
49.   Mayor Kriege informed council that Jaimie Henson has resigned as
representative for the city on the Telecommunications Board and would like
their support to appoint Mr. Bob Dodson to the Board.
50.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to accept Mayor Kriege’s recommendation to
appoint Bob Dodson to the Telecommunications Board; seconded by Mr. Ellison.
Roll call vote was unanimous; 6-0 in favor.
51.   Mayor Kriege reminded council of the Annual Planning Session which is
scheduled for February 10 – 12, 2000. He also reported that he is working with
Ms. Guenther, the Finance Director, on an amended budget, which will be
presented to council in March or April.
Adjournment
52.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mrs. Yeager the meeting was
adjourned. Meeting adjourned at 9:25 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MARCH 6, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison,
Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in
attendance was Gary Scott, City Administrator and City Attorney, H. Lawson
Walker.
Approval of Council Minutes
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the regular
meeting of February 7, 2000 as amended. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried 6-0.
Text Amendment for Roller Rinks – Discussion/Second Reading - Ordinance
No.2000-O-03
3.   Mayor Kriege announced that the matter concerning the text amendment to
permit roller rinks in residential zones was again before council due to the
confusion at the last meeting about the mayor’s ability to vote on zoning
issues. He stated that Mr. Dale Roland was in attendance tonight and asked him
if he had any new information that would cause council to reconsider the
matter.
4.   Mr. Tom Breidenstein, legal counsel for Mr. Roland, spoke on Mr. Roland’s
behalf. He stated that during the last few weeks, after much consideration and
a closer look at the statues, he is requesting council to take another vote on
the proposed text amendment ordinance so that Mayor Kriege can cast a vote.
5.   Council member, Mr. Dupps asked Mr. Walker to comment on Mr.
Breidenstein’s statement. Mr. Walker stated, that in his opinion, when the
majority vote of the legislative body (council) results in a tie vote, that the
Mayor then acts in a legislative capacity in order to break the tie vote. He
stated that since the previous vote resulted in a tie, the vote was perceived
as not being passed, so it can be voted on again. He went on to say there is no
prior appellate level court decision on this particular matter. Mr. Walker also
commented that the legal community is divided in the interpretation of this
statute.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus adhered to his contention that the mayor is not a member of
the legislative body and that it takes four members of the legislative body to
constitute a majority. Mr. Walker reiterated that the courts have not ruled on
this matter.
7.   Mayor Kriege commented that the statute is vague and the question of a
mayor’s right to vote on certain matters comes before many city councils. He
asked council how they wanted to proceed. Mr. Steffen stated that he felt it
necessary to vote again because of the confusion.
8.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-03 as read at the
February 7, 2000 regular council meeting. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll
call vote was answered with three yes votes and three no votes cast by Mr.
Feldhaus, Mr. Ellison, and Mrs. Gabbard. Mayor Kriege cast the deciding yes
vote. Motion carried 4-3 in favor.
9.   Mr. Ellison commented, and Mrs. Gabbard concurred, that all residential
zones would now be open to all types of recreational business – roller rinks,
bowling alleys, etc.
ANNEXATION - Unincorporated Section of Manor Hill Subdivision – Ordinance No.
2000-O-04
10.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to annex the unincorporated section of the Manor Hill Subdivision by
Keeney Development on Marshall Road. Motion seconded by Mr. Steffen. Motion
carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
11.   Upon motion by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mrs. Gabbard Ordinance No.
2000-O-04 was adopted as read. Roll call was answered 6-0 in favor. Motion
carried.
12.   Mr. Feldhaus asked who prepared the legal description of the property
being annexed in Exhibit A of Section II of the ordinance. Mr. Walker replied
Keeney Development’s legal counsel provided it. Council requested the city
engineer (Cardinal Engineering) verify the legal description.
SENIOR CITIZENS CENTER – DISCUSSION & ACTION RELATING TO THE CDBG GRANT
13.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Bryan Kirby, Grant Administrator for the
Senior Citizens Center Community Development Block Grant project.
14.   Mr. Kirby explained and reviewed several documents needed to be addressed
by council in order to obtain the release of federal funds for the $270,000
grant awarded to Independence for the construction of a new Senior Citizens
Center. As Mr. Kirby had submitted twelve documents, which included orders,
certifications, plans orders and resolutions, Mr. Feldhaus questioned if they
were all necessary. He stated the city complied with these type documents
approximately 10-12 years ago and he wondered if they were still applicable to
this new grant. Mr. Kirby stated that due to changes in ADA, etc. that council
would need to adopt new documents. He stated that since the budget was going to
be amended tonight it would not be necessary to have a separate amended budget
ordinance just for the grant.
Fair Housing Policy Ordinance – First Reading of Ordinance
15.   There was a brief discussion regarding the proposed Fair Housing
Ordinance. Mr. Kirby stated this ordinance is a declarative statement by the
city prohibiting housing discrimination. Mr. Walker asked if the language in
the ordinance was precise. Mr. Kirby stated it was. Mrs. Gabbard commented that
she would like to have more time to review this document.
16.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed Fair
Housing Policy ordinance in summary. Motion seconded by Mrs. Yeager. No roll
call; motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker made first reading in summary.
Certification of Financial Management
17.   Mr. Kirby explained this form needed to be completed by the city’s
auditor as the Finance Director is not bonded and it is necessary the
recipients of federal funds have financial management systems that meet the
requirements set forth in 24 CFR Part 85.20.
18.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to sign the
Certification of Financial Management document. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes 6-0.
Procurement Policy as it Relates to the CDBG Project – Resolution No. 2000-R-03
19.   Mr. Kirby explained this document and stated that most cities have
adopted the model procurement code. Mr. Walker differed with Mr. Kirby and
stated that most small cities have not adopted the model procurement code. Mr.
Walker advised that most cities comply with the Kentucky Revised Statute
regarding the bid process. Mr. Kirby advised the adoption of this procurement
policy is mandatory for the obtainment of the grant funds but assured council
there are provisions for emergency situations
20.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read Resolution No 2000-R-03 adopting a
procurement policy; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr.
Walker read Resolution No. 2000-R-03.
21.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-03 as read;
seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0.
Resolution Establishing a Section 3 Plan – Resolution No. 2000-R-04
22.   Mr. Kirby explained the proposed resolution is a declarative statement by
the city implementing a Section 3 Affirmative Action Plan in the CDBG Project.
He explained that by adopting the Section 3 Plan the city agrees to implement
specific action steps directed at the hiring and training of lower income
residents.
23.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read the proposed resolution establishing a
Section 3 Plan for the city. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. No roll call;
motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read proposed Resolution No. 2000-R-
04.
24.   Motion made by Mr. Feldhaus and seconded by Mrs. Yeager to adopt
Resolution No. 2000-R-04 establishing a Section 3 Affirmative Action Plan. Roll
call was answered 6-0 in favor. Motion carried.
Executive Order 2000-EO-04 - Governing Access to the Public Records
25.   Mr. Kirby explained the next order was to govern access to the public
records of the city. Mr. Walker questioned the needfulness of this document, as
the state statute clearly mandates this to all public agencies. He reminded
everyone that state laws supercede city laws. Mr. Kirby stated this is a
federal grant and not all states have a statute regarding access to public
records. He advised it would be necessary to authorize the mayor to sign this
order in order to receive the grant funds.
26.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion authorizing the mayor to sign Executive Order
No. 2000-EO-04 governing access to public records. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read Executive Order No.
2000.EO-04.
Executive Order 2000-EO-05 - Section 504 Regulations on Handicapped
Accessibility
27.   Mr. Kirby explained that another requirement for the CDBG funds was the
need for the city to comply with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
This order is for approving procedures for compliance with the 504 Regulations
on handicapped accessibility.
28.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion authorizing Mayor Kriege to sign the Executive
Order No. 2000-EO-05 complying with 504 Regulations on handicapped
accessibility. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. No roll called; motion carried
with all ayes. Mr. Walker read Executive Order 2000-EO-05.
Certification of Drug-Free Workplace Requirements
29.   Mr. Kirby explained this certifies that the city is in compliance with
the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988.
30.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to authorize the mayor to sign the
certification; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Executive Order No. 2000-EO-06 - Affirmative Action Plan
31.   Mr. Kirby advised the affirmative action policy of the city would be to
promote equal employment opportunities, prohibit discrimination in employment,
and provide fair representation of females and minorities.
32.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to read Executive Order No. 2000-EO-06
authorizing the mayor to sign the Affirmative Action Plan. Mr. Feldhaus
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read Executive
Order No. 2000-EO-06.
Establishing a Historic Preservation Commission – Resolution No. 2000-R-05
33.   Mr. Scott and Ms. Bradford, Zoning Administrator, informed council that
it was necessary to adopt the proposed resolution in order for the city to make
application to the Kentucky Renaissance Program. Ms. Bradford advised this
resolution is part of the on-going effort to revitalize the downtown district
of Independence.
34.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to read Resolution No. 2000-R-05 establishing a
Historic Preservation Commission. Motion seconded by Mr. Steffen. Motion
carried with all ayes.
35.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-05; seconded by
Mrs. Gabbard. Roll call vote was answered with five yes votes and one no vote
cast by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried 5-1.
Seeking Designation as a Renaissance Kentucky Community – Resolution No. 2000-
R-06
36.   Mr. Scott stated the proposed resolution is another requirement that will
move the city forward with the revitalization of the downtown area.
37.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to read the proposed Resolution No. 2000-R-06
to begin the participation process designating Independence as a Renaissance
Kentucky Community. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll call was answered
with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried 5-1.
Imposing a Bank Franchise & Local Deposit Tax – Discussion & First Reading of
Ordinance
38.   After a few months of review, Council Member, Greg Steffen stated he was
re-introducing a proposed ordinance that would impose a bank franchise and
local deposit tax. He reported that what he discovered is that the county is
collecting the revenue from this tax because the city does not.
39.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance that would impose a bank franchise and local deposit tax. Mr. Steffen
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
40.   Mr. Scott informed council that storm sirens would be installed
throughout the city in the following locations: Summit View School, Beechgrove
Elementary School, the Independence Firehouse on Madison Pike, and the Kenton
County Library on Taylor Mill Road. The storm sirens are being installed as a
collaborative effort by Kenton County and local cities. He stated that a permit
would be issued for the sirens, but that the fee generally associated with a
permit would be waived for the county.
41.   Mr. Scott stated he attended the Kenton County & Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission’s meeting for the discussion of the city’s request for a text
amendment to eliminate pole signs #7 & #9. Mr. Scott advised council that the
NKAP staff recommendation was to disapprove the change so he requested that
KC&MP&Z Commission table the matter. He stated he would invite a representative
from NKAP Commission to discuss this issue at the next regular council meeting.
42.   Mr. Scott reported the updated employee job descriptions would go out on
Friday. Also, the Personnel Policy with the latest revisions is before council
tonight and he requested they take action to approve it.
Personnel Policy Revised – Resolution No. 2000-R-07
43.   Mr. Feldhaus had questions and voiced concerns on a few sections of the
document. Some additional revisions were made and agreed upon by council. Mr.
Steffen voiced his objection to placing a $1,000 maximum on the longevity pay
and put that objection into the form of a motion, which was seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. The motion was defeated with a roll call that yielded two yes votes
and four no votes.
44.   After further discussion Mayor Kriege urged council to adopt the revised
policy. He expressed his displeasure with the way this document has repeatedly
come before council with the latest revisions only to be subjected to more
revisions at the time of adoption.
45.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to read Resolution 2000-R-07 adopting a revised
Personnel Policy. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with
five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried 5-1.
Discussion regarding - Off Street Parking in Residential Areas
46.   Mr. Scott reported he would be working with the city attorney to clear up
some zoning ordinances regarding the parking of vehicles in residential areas.
One problem is that residents are parking on the grass when off street parking
is not available and the ordinance makes the assumption that parking is not
permitted in the grass but it is not explicit. Mr. Feldhaus stated there might
be a city ordinance regarding this.
Proposed 1999/2000 Budget Amendment – First Reading of Ordinance
47.   Mr. Scott stated that unexpected expenses have caused some line items in
the budget to exceed the estimated amounts and that with the need to include
the $270,000 revenue for the grant for the Senior Center it will be necessary
to amend the current budget. Ms. Guenther, Finance Director, commented that the
new detailed budget allows for the changes in lower than anticipated revenue
and higher expenses.
48.   Mrs. Gabbard expressed her concerns about proceeding with the
construction of a Senior Center without knowing the expenses that will be
associated with the building. She stated she was not against a Senior Center
but just wanted financial assurance. Mayor Kriege stated the Building Committee
needed to discuss plans for the operation of the Senior Center and related
costs. He stated that Ms. Guenther and Mr. Scott will be researching and
developing a financial proposal for the Senior Center. Ms. Guenther felt
confident that the city just needed to pause and plan for the financing and
operational cost of the building. She stated that the majority of the cost
would come from next year’s budget
49.   Mrs. Gabbard wondered how the city was going to pay the June payment on
the sewer loan due in June. Mayor Kriege stated that expense would come from
the sewer fund. Mr. Feldhaus commented that the city should revisit the
assessment on the Fowler Creek Sewer Project.
50.   Mr. Scott informed council that in order to move forward with the grant
the city would need to amend the budget at this time.
51.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend the 1999/2000 Budget. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with three yes votes and three no votes cast by Mrs. Gabbard,
Mr. Dupps and Mr. Steffen. Mayor Kriege broke the tie by voting yes. Motion
carried 4-3 in favor.
52.   Mr. Scott advised there would be a Budget and Finance Committee meeting
on March 20, 2000 at 5:00 p.m. at the city building.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
53.   Mr. Whitacre reported that the developers of the Liberty Orchard
Subdivision have been put on notice that the turn lanes must be installed on
Madison Pike no later than June 1, 2000 or NKAP will begin the process to
collect on the bond.
54.   Mr. Whitacre also reported the grate on Arbor Lane in Beechgrove is
clogged with debris. He stated this is on private property and asked council
how to proceed since the city has no policy on this. Mr. Scott stated there is
no permanent easement for this particular property. Mayor Kriege stated he did
not feel the city needed to adopt a policy for this as it is the property
owner’s responsibility. Mr. Ellison suggested notifying Beechgrove Homeowners’
Association to clean the grate as he felt this service would be covered by the
fees paid by the property owner.
55.   Mr. Whitacre advised council they are currently compiling a list of
streets to bid for concrete repairs in the spring/summer. The bid advertisement
will run on March 17th with the bids due by March 31st. He warned council that
concrete costs would run about thirty-five percent higher than last year. Mr.
Scott stated they are following the updated five-year street repair list.
56.   Mr. Ellison requested the city invite Cincinnati Bell to a meeting to
discuss relocating the poles on Madison Pike near the Independence Towne
Center.
57.   Mr. Feldhaus addressed the matter of the common area in the Hunters Green
Subdivision. He stated he met with some residents who seemed agreeable to the
city deeding over the land that adjoins their property. He stated there are two
couches currently in the lake behind Gunstock Court. Mr. Feldhaus commented
that a section of the lake has a dam and that may be a problem.
58.   There was a lengthy discussion of possible solutions of the common area
in this subdivision. Mr. Walker stated he was confident the city could take
over the land but to actually convey each section of land to the property
owners would be costly because of the fees involved. Council agreed there was
no easy solution to this matter but the city attorney will investigate possible
alternatives.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
59.   Mr. Barbian advised his monthly report was in the council packets and
would answer any questions about the report. He stated he would be scheduling a
Planning & Zoning Committee meeting.
60.   Mr. Feldhaus asked about the sidewalks in the subdivisions that are
currently under construction. He stated the developers are leaving a roll curb,
which does not comply with ADA regulations. Mr. Barbian replied that the
developers have accommodated the city by doing this as many of the plats were
approved before the ADA requirement was adopted. Mr. Dupps stated that he
thought the developer had a deadline to comply with the ADA regulations. Mr.
Barbian advised council that it is not the developer, but the city that is
required to comply to this regulation. Mr. Dupps stated that the city should be
proactive in this matter and work with the developers to have the sidewalks
constructed according to ADA. Mr. Barbian assured council he is working to that
end. Mr. Dupps stated the Planning & Zoning Committee could discuss this matter
further.
Recreation – Nita Brake
61.   Ms. Brake reported the bids for the playground equipment for Memorial
Park have been received and after review by the Independence Recreation
Committee it is being recommended the bid be awarded to David Williams &
Associates, distributor of “Game Time” products. They are located in Alliance,
Ohio. She stated the committee felt this bid was the best bid as there was
“more play value for the money” by including a swing set, track ride and
provided more climbing equipment, handicap activities and play variety.
62.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to award the bid for playground equipment at
Memorial Park to David Williams and Associates based on the reasons stated.
Motion seconded by Mr. Steffen. Roll call vote was answered 6-0 in favor. Mrs.
Gabbard clarified her vote by stating she was voting yes on the condition that
there were funds in the budget to cover this expense.
63.   Ms. Brake also reported that Cinergy has donated the following funds:
$500 for walking trails, $3,000 for the amphitheater, and $500 for the summer
youth program. She reported the state has also refunded the city $11,550.10 for
the Walking Trails grant.
Zoning Administrator – Melissa Bradford
64.   Ms. Bradford reported that students from Northern Kentucky University
would perform a study regarding overlay guidelines for the city.
65.   Mr. Steffen asked of whom the Historical Preservation Committee would be
comprised. Ms. Bradford stated there was no formal structure required but that
business owners and residents would be invited to serve on the committee.
66.   Mr. Feldhaus informed Ms. Bradford of inappropriate signage on St.
Francis Drive. She stated she was aware of the sign and it has already been
removed.
Police Department – Ed Porter
67.   Chief Porter announced there would be a charity basketball game between
the police department and the Independence Fire District on March 7, 2000 at
Summit View School with the proceeds going to the area youth groups.
68.   Chief Porter reported that two new officers have been hired; Tony Hill
and Kail Clifton who are local residents. Both new hires will attend the police
academy with graduation scheduled for July 14th after which they will enter the
FTO Program.
69.   Mr. Steffen asked if the promotional testing was complete for the
lieutenant and sergeant positions. Chief Porter stated that promotions were due
to be effective on March 2nd but are now pending because a grievance has been
filed with the city.
COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance
70.   Mr. Scott stated a Budget and Finance Committee meeting would be held on
March 20, 2000 at 5:00 p.m.
Building Committee
71.   Mr. Scott informed the Building Committee members of the need to schedule
a meeting to discuss financing options for the new Senior Citizens Building.
Personnel & Administration Committee
72.   Mr. Scott stated work is complete on the personnel policies.
Planning & Zoning Committee
73.   Mr. Scott stated a meeting would be scheduled. Mr. Steffen reported the
committee has discussed eliminating the R1-E (residential - high-density) zone
and advised that it would require a text amendment.
74.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to make application
for a text amendment eliminating the R-1E zone. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered 6-0 in favor. Motion carried.
75.   Mr. Steffen also reported the committee would like to see the city make a
text amendment that would permit daycare/nursery school centers in NSC zones.
He also stressed the need to add a definition of a daycare to the text.
76.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to make application
for a text amendment that would permit daycare/nursery schools as a conditional
use in the NSC zone and also to amend the definition of “nursery school”. Mr.
Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0.
77.   Mr. Ellison stated that Mr. Marty Neltner is requesting an agricultural
zone and will be applying for that for property on Taylor Mill Road.
78.   Mr. Steffen proposed eliminating the PUD zone, as he is concerned
developers will use this in place of an RCD zone. He feels that if the city
does not have a PUD zone then the city officials would not be in a position of
opposing this type of development thereby opening the city up to potential
lawsuits. Mr. Ellison suggested the city address this matter at the next
regular meeting.
Public Safety Committee
79.   No Report
Public Works Committee
80.   Mr. Feldhaus asked if a sidewalk plan had been developed yet. Mr. Scott
stated that Dan Briggs of Cardinal Engineering is working on a plan.
Miscellaneous Matters
81.   Mr. Feldhaus expressed concerns that the Independence Towne Center has
not installed sidewalks along Shaw Road or the backside of the building
adjacent to the condos. He also was concerned about the lights at the Towne
Center and their annoyance to the surrounding residents.
82.   Mr. Ellison requested the Public Works employees pick up the signs posted
on poles and in the right of ways.
83.   Mrs. Yeager reported she has obtained sample tree ordinances from other
cities that Independence may want to model.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
84.   Mayor Kriege announced that Board of Adjustment member, Don Bridges term
expires on March 14, 2000, and advised council that Mr. Bridges has agreed to
another term. Mayor Kriege recommended that council approve the re-appointment
of Mr. Bridges to another term on the Board of Adjustments.
Executive Order No. 2000-EO-03 Appointing Don Bridges to the Board of
Adjustments
85.   Motion made by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mr. Ellison to approve Mayor
Kriege’s recommendation to appoint Don Bridges to the Board of Adjustments.
Motion carried with all ayes.
86.   Mayor Kriege read Executive Order No. 2000-EO-03 appointing Don Bridges
to the Board of Adjustments. Motion by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mr. Dupps to
adopt Executive Order No. 2000-EO-03 as read. Motion carried with all ayes.
87.   Mayor Kriege made a public announcement encouraging Independence
residents to participate in the Census 2000 survey that would arrive in the
mail this month.
Executive Session
88.   City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker, requested an executive session. Mr.
Steffen made a motion to go into executive session for the purpose of
discussing pending litigation in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c). Mr.
Feldhaus seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
89.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
90.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion
carried with all ayes. The meeting adjourned at 10:47 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 3, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
was Gary Scott, City Administrator and City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege announced promotions in the police department and along with
Chief Ed Porter and the council members made presentations to Officer Ed
Bailey, Detective Tony Lucas, and Officer John Lonaker. Chief Porter stated
that Officer Bailey has been with the city for nine years and was being
promoted to the rank of lieutenant. He also recognized Detective Lucas for his
dedicated service for the last nine years and presented him with the rank of
sergeant. Chief Porter spoke of Officer Lonaker’s four years service and
promoted him to the rank of sergeant. City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker
administered the Oath of Office.
Approval of Council Minutes
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept the council minutes of the regular
meeting of March 6, 2000 as amended. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion was
answered with all ayes 6-0
Fair Housing Policy Ordinance – Second Reading of Ordinance No. 2000-O-05
4.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance adopting a Fair Housing Policy. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
5.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-05 adopting a
Fair Housing Policy. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was answered
with six ayes; motion carried 6-0.
Second Reading Ordinance No. 2000-O-06 Imposing a Bank Franchise & Local
Deposit Tax
6.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a second reading on the proposed ordinance
to impose a bank franchise and local deposit tax. Mr. Steffen seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
7.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-06 as read;
seconded by Mr. Steffen. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0.
1999/2000 Budget Amendment – Proposed Ordinance
8.   After a brief discussion regarding a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend the 1999/2000 budget, Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to table
the second reading. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll call vote was
answered with all ayes; motion carried 6-0.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary R. Scott
9.   Mr. Scott reported he is beginning work on gathering the necessary data to
start the annexation process for four parcels of land, most of which is
surrounded by incorporated areas of the city. He explained this annexation
would clean up the city’s boundary lines. He suggested and council agreed to
have Cardinal Engineering research the legal descriptions of the property to be
annexed. He stated that by starting this process now it would enable the city
to have this issue placed on the November general election ballot.
10.   Mr. Walker advised that since these parcels are multi-dimensional, there
should be a majority of council expressing interest in proceeding with the
annexation process before authorizing the city engineer to gather the needed
information. During a brief discussion, Mr. Steffen acknowledged that the
property owners have not requested annexation nor have they been informed of
the city’s interest to annex. Mr. Feldhaus suggested sending a letter to the
property owners to advise them of the city’s plan to annex. Mr. Walker advised
council that after the city adopts an ordinance stating the intent to annex the
land then the property owners would have sixty days to protest. Mr. Steffen
stated that due to the annexation process there are time constraints to
consider in order for this matter to be placed on the November ballot. Mr.
Feldhaus voiced his objection to annexing the property. Mr. Steffen stated he
would agree to dispense with annexing the three small tracts but feels the city
should proceed with annexation of the larger tract as it is completely in the
city’s service area.
11.   Mr. Dupps asked what expenses would be involved if council decides to
proceed with the annexation process. Mr. Walker replied there would be
engineer’s fees and publication costs. He stated a first reading could not take
place tonight as the city engineer will need to provide him with the legal
descriptions of the properties to be annexed. Council discussed holding a
special meeting prior to the next regular meeting in order to complete a first
and second reading of a proposed ordinance in keeping with the deadline to get
this matter on the November ballot.
12.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to proceed with the annexation process by
notifying the property owners of the smaller tracts of land via certified
letter and advertising the larger tract in the newspaper. Mrs. Gabbard seconded
the motion. Roll call vote was answered with four yes votes and two no votes
cast by Mr. Ellison and Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
Concrete Street Repairs for 2000 – Award of the Contract
13.   Mr. Scott reported the city accepted bids for concrete street repairs and
received two proposals. The two bids submitted were JPS Construction Inc. for
$116,950.00 and Buchanan Construction Company, Inc. for $133,562.50. Mr. Scott
stated that it was estimated the concrete would run $42.00/sq.yd. but that the
bids came in at $35.00/sq.yd. and $39.25/sq.yd. This is twenty percent lower
than expected. Some council members inquired what streets were included in this
project. Mr. Smith, Public Works Foreman, stated that sections of Oby Drive,
Jamestown, Hunters Green, Clubhouse Drive, Wooddale, and Wedgewood Drive were
some of the streets that would be repaired in this project.
14.   Mr. Feldhaus suggested that partial improvements be made to Holten Drive
with the twenty-percent difference that was saved. Mr. Scott stated they would
look into that possibility.
15.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to award the concrete street repairs bid to JPS
Construction Inc in the amount of $116,950.00. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion.
Roll call was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
16.   The matter of the common area in the Hunters Green Subdivision was
presented and council discussed possible solutions. Mr. Walker stated the city
could easily take possession of the common property that has been abandoned by
the defunct homeowners association but that deeding over the land to bordering
property owners would be costly to the city. Discussion centered on the area to
the rear of Gunstock Court that has a pond, which is causing erosion to the
adjoining properties. Mr. Feldhaus stated that three of the four property
owners he spoke with expressed interest in obtaining the property. He suggested
the city focus on this area for now. Mayor Kriege suggested the city send
certified letters to the property owners to inquire their interest in procuring
the property at their cost.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
17.   Mr. Barbian reported the Planning & Zoning Committee meeting was
cancelled and has been tentatively rescheduled for April 13, 2000.
18.   Mr. Feldhaus questioned Mr. Barbian about the ADA accessibility of the
concrete roll curbs that some of the new subdivisions has installed. Mr.
Barbian advised that many of the site plans were approved prior to the city’s
adoption of the revised subdivision regulations. He advised that all new
sections of new subdivisions would be complying with the ADA regulations. Mayor
Kriege asked if NKAPZ would be overseeing compliance of this regulation. Mr.
Barbian will make the necessary inquiries.
Zoning Administrator – Melissa Bradford
19.   Ms. Bradford stated her monthly report was included in the council
packets. Mr. Feldhaus asked what action was being taken by the city to clean up
Kenton County Motors. Mr. Scott stated the city is working with Mr. Breeden to
keep the condition under control. Mayor Kriege reminded council that Mr.
Breeden’s business also serves as the city’s impound lot and suggested
increasing the number of auctions the city holds every year. Chief Porter
stated the city must hold impounded vehicles for ninety days before selling at
auction. Mayor Kriege also suggested installing a fence around the area.
20.   Mrs. Gabbard asked if the street repairs would be made on Justice Lane.
Ms. Bradford stated she is still working with the residents on Justice Lane.
Recreation – Nita Brake
21.   Ms. Brake reported that she has solicited for and received several
donations for the Summer Youth Program. She also reported that she is actively
working on the Renaissance Kentucky Program.
Police Department – Ed Porter
22.   Chief Porter stated that fifty impounded vehicles will be auctioned this
Saturday, April 8, 2000 at Kenton County Motors at 10:00 a.m.
Public Works – Jeff Smith
23.   Mr. Smith reported he is measuring the streets to get an accurate mileage
count. He stated that he is also working with Dan Briggs of Cardinal
Engineering on compiling street repair projects. Mayor Kriege asked him if
there was plans to do crack sealing this year as the city could look into
renting a sealer if needed. He stated that Eaton and Michels do crack sealing
and that Arts Rental does not have a sealer to rent. Mr. Feldhaus suggested
renting a sealer from a city or county that owns one.
24.   Mr. Dupps suggested Mr. Smith work with Mr. Barbian to compose a sidewalk
plan to conform with ADA regulations that could be implemented over a four to
five year period. Mr. Smith agreed to work on that project.
25.   Mr. Feldhaus stated a problem exists on Sherwood Drive directly across
from Sterling Staggs Park when vehicles park there because there is no parking
spaces empty. There was a brief discussion about prohibiting parking on that
side of the street. Mr. Smith read to council the zoning ordinance that
pertains to this matter and advised he would place ‘no parking’ signs up before
the end of the week.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
26.   Mayor Kriege stated the committee is preparing a budget for the next
fiscal year and that the next meeting will be held on Tuesday, April 11, 2000.
Building Committee
27.   Mayor Kriege reported the committee is working on funding options for the
Senior Center and other city facilities. The next meeting will be on April 12,
2000.
Planning & Zoning Committee
28.   Mr. Ellison noted correspondence from the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission regarding the approval of the preliminary plat for the Manor Hill
Subdivision. He pointed out that under the considerations, paragraph three,
section “a”, that approximately four acres remain in the unincorporated area of
Kenton County. He stated that it was his understanding that the entire
subdivision was to be annexed into the city. After a brief discussion it was
decided that Mr. Walker would send a letter to Tim Theissen, Chairman of the
Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission and that Gary Scott
would attend their next meeting on April 6, 2000 to represent the city’s
interest.
29.   The next meeting of the Planning & Zoning Committee will be on Thursday,
April 13, 2000.
Public Safety Committee
30.   Mr. Dupps reported the committee is discussing plans for the Memorial Day
Parade and looking into obtaining a grant to provide funds for a safety
officer.
Simon Kenton High School Project Prom
31.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to donate $500.00, or equal to the amount donated
last year, to Simon Kenton High School’s Project Prom. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered by a 6-0 vote in favor.
Public Works Committee
32.   This committee had no report and no plans to meet this quarter.
Miscellaneous Business
33.   Mr. Feldhaus commented the baseball season will be starting and advised
the fields at Sterling Staggs Park are in need of some fill dirt as water is
laying. He requested $500 be allocated to purchase topsoil for repair of the
fields. Mayor Kriege stated this could be made part of the budget amendment
that the money is there but needs to be reapportioned.
34.   Mr. Ellison requested the city look into the commercial trailers that are
parked on the sidewalks in the Hunters Green Subdivision. He stated these
trailers are being parked there overnight while the company is installing some
type of tubes. Someone mentioned they thought it was Insight Cable Company. Mr.
Scott stated he would look into the matter.
35.   Mr. Steffen referred to a letter from Northern Kentucky Area Planning
regarding the Comprehensive Plan Update. Mayor Kriege stated the city will have
an opportunity to add input in the revised Plan.
36.   A resident who lives on Willow Drive addressed council regarding her
concern with being charged the debt reduction fee on her property. She stated
she allowed the city to cross her land to install the main sewer lines but
objects to the charge. She stated she knows property owners that are not paying
the debt reduction. Mayor Kriege stated he would look into the matter.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
37.   Mayor Kriege stated that an Easter Sunrise Service would be held at
Memorial Park on Easter Sunday (4-23-00) at 6:30 a.m.
Executive Session
38.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to enter into executive session for the
purpose of discussing pending litigation in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c);
seconded by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried with all ayes.
39.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mr.
Steffen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Fischer Lawsuit
40.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to instruct the city attorney to proceed in the
negotiations with Fischer Homes; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Roll call vote was
answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Steffen and Mr.
Feldhaus. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
Adjournment
41.   Upon motion by Mrs. Gabbard and second by Mrs. Yeager the meeting was
adjourned. Meeting adjourned at 9:20 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 27, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Council Members Jim
Ellison, Donna Yeager, Barbara Gabbard, Gregory Steffen, and Steve Feldhaus
answered roll call. Mr. Dupps called earlier in the day to say he would attend
but would arrive late. (Mr. Dupps arrived at 7:45 p.m.) Also in attendance were
Gary Scott, City Administrator, City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and Finance
Director, Amy Guenther.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated the purpose of the special meeting was to discuss and
possibly take action on amending both the current budget and the proposed
budget for the 2000/01 fiscal year.
First Reading of the Proposed Ordinance to Amend the 99/00 Budget
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of a proposed ordinance
relating to the amendment of the 1999/00 annual budget that would increase
receipts of the General Fund by $270,000.00 to include revenues from the
Department of Local Government for the construction of a Senior Center. Mr.
Ellison seconded the motion. Motion carried 5-0 (Mr. Dupps absent).
4.   During a brief discussion, Mayor Kriege stated that he would like to hold
off making this amendment to the current budget as he would like to amend the
full budget in June and does not wish to have the expense of advertising an
amended budget twice. He advised the city has received the first invoice from
the architect firm that is designing the Center. Mr. Scott stated we might need
to have the ordinance adopted in order to begin paying bills. Mayor Kriege
stated he would speak with the Grant Administrator, Bryan Kirby, tomorrow to
inquire whether the city could wait until June to pass the amended budget. Mr.
Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Mayor Kriege’s Presentation of the Proposed 2000/01 Fiscal Year Budget
5.   Mayor Kriege presented the proposed 2000/01 budget for council’s review
and discussion. He stated that this past year many new programs and services
were instituted and next year’s budget would need to provide funding to
maintain those additions to the budget. In his address, Mayor Kriege stated
that next year’s budget was a challenge, as difficult decisions had to be made
to ensure services for future years. He stressed that the city staff worked
well to develop and create a conservative budget and while the proposed budget
has been reduced as much as possible he pronounced the need to hire a grant
writer to access capital and operating funds. He also advised the city has been
notified of a 31% premium increase of the employee’s health insurance but that
he is working with the city’s health insurance agent as they shop for a good
medical program with a lower rate. He also stated the proposed budget includes
the city’s share ($8,000) for the emergency sirens recently installed in Kenton
County. Mayor Kriege stated the proposed budget would increase the Recreation
Director from a part-time position to full-time.
6.   In closing, Mayor Kriege advised the proposed 2000/01 budget includes
pulling $169,000.00 from reserve funds, making this the second year the city
has needed to dip into the reserve funds in order to provide the necessary
services while maintaining operating expenses. Mayor Kriege stated that in his
opinion the city is in a budget crisis and proposed imposing an insurance
premium tax at a rate of 5%. He advised that Independence is one of the few
cities that do not currently impose the insurance premium tax with the average
rate being 8%. He expressed the need for Independence to begin long-range
budget plans instead of the current year-to-year plan. He expressed concern
that if the city continues with the current practice of using reserve funds for
each year’s budget that the reserves would be depleted within 3-5 years. At
this time, Mayor Kriege opened the floor for general discussion of the proposed
budge for 2000/01.
7.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed 2000/01
budget; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Discussion ensued.
8.   Mr. Walker asked if the budget would be passed by line item or summary.
Mr. Feldhaus stated it would be adopted by summary.
9.   Mrs. Gabbard commented that she thought it was too soon to have a first
reading of the budget as there may be suggested changes after there is more
time for review.
10.   There was a brief discussion about the property tax rate for the year
2000. Mrs. Guenther, Finance Director, stated the preliminary figures indicate
the tax rate will be .1570 for compensating plus four and .151 without plus
four.
11.   Mrs. Gabbard questioned the high attorney fees the city supported this
year. Mr. Walker stated he has discussed the matter of his fees with Mayor
Kriege and he feels confident they can agree on a retainer fee that would be
more inclusive than the current monthly retainer. Mr. Walker also reminded
council the city was involved in several lawsuits this past year that resulted
in additional attorney fees, i.e. the City vs. AT&T. He added that he feels his
firm is becoming more efficient as they become more familiar with the city.
12.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mrs. Guenther if there could possibly be a $170,000
carry-over. Mrs. Guenther stated she did not foresee that large of a carry-
over. Mrs. Guenther stated the amendments for the current budget will be
presented in June and does not anticipate the figures changing from what has
been projected.
13.   Mrs. Yeager commented the city would be receiving $200,000 from the State
for use in the parks. Mr. Scott suggested this donation from the state not be
added to the budget until the funds are actually received, as we do not know
when the state will bestow this allocation.
14.   There was a brief discussion surrounding the use of the Fowler Creek
Sewer funds. Mrs. Guenther questioned if the city was able to pay any sewer
expenses from the debt reduction fees collected. Mr. Walker advised that in his
opinion, as long as the city was not indebted to a third party, the city could
use this revenue to pay any expenses as long as sufficient money is retained to
make the bond payments. Mr. Feldhaus expressed concern that ordinances were
adopted that established how the fees would be spent. Mr. Walker advised that
the budget ordinance would override any prior ordinances adopted. Mr. Ellison
also commented that the purpose of the previous ordinances no longer existed,
as the city no longer collects sewer tap-in fees.
15.   Discussion turned to employee wages and the current pay scale. Mr. Scott
stated he would like to see employees receiving at least the minimum pay for
their position on the pay scale. Lt. Shawn Butler stated there was not enough
funding to get everyone into the pay range that was adopted last year. Mrs.
Yeager stated she thought everyone was required to be paid at least the minimum
of the scale. Mr. Feldhaus commented that he feels there is no method in place
to get employees up from the minimum to the top of the scale. Lt. Butler stated
they are still attempting to get some employees in the scale that was set for
their job position. He stated one of the sergeants, with six years experience,
is still being paid $2,000 less than the minimum in the pay scale.
16.   Mr. Feldhaus suggested that by withdrawing from the Cable Board the city
would be able to collect the entire 5% franchise fee and felt this additional
revenue could solve the budget problem to fund the personnel expenses. Mrs.
Gabbard asked what benefit the city would have by remaining a member of the
Cable Board. Mr. Feldhaus stated the Cable Board currently tapes the council
meetings free of charge; if the city was not a member the charge to tape the
meetings would run $30-$40/hour.
17.   Mr. Steffen commented that the city shouldn’t balance the budget on the
backs of the people who make the least amount of money and felt the city should
add the needed revenue for personnel expenses even if it was necessary to dip
into the reserve fund to do so.
18.   Lt. Butler stated the police department has made the necessary cuts but
he feels they can live with them. A brief discussion ensued on the take home
fleet of cruisers. Lt. Butler advised they would be losing five leased vehicles
at the end of the year. The company will not renew the lease nor will they sell
the vehicles to the city. He also stated that several of the remaining vehicles
are 7-10 years old. Council discussed the cost of maintaining home fleet cars
versus pool cars. Lt. Butler stated he is confident that home fleet vehicles
can be on the road seven years. He shared his concern of the imminent loss of
the leased vehicles compounded with the remaining aged fleet. He stated he
would be researching possible solutions to this matter.
19.   Mr. Steffen asked Lt. Butler if they would be funding a school resource
officer. Lt. Butler stated they are currently looking for grants that would
cover the full cost of a resource officer, and meanwhile will continue the
current program in the schools. He advised the DARE grant has expired and they
are examining other options and programs.
Adjournment
20.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion
carried with all ayes. The meeting adjourned at 7:58 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
__________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MAY 1, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison,
Barbara Gabbard, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Mr. Dupps was absent.
Also in attendance were Gary Scott, City Administrator and City Attorney, H.
Lawson Walker.
Approval of the Minutes of April 3, 2000 Meeting
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the minutes of the April 3, 2000
meeting as amended. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. Motion carried 5-0 in
favor
Privileges of the Floor
3.   Mr. Tom Brinker, 1192 Constitution Drive, spoke to council regarding the
maintenance of Flagstone Drive. He explained that Flagstone Drive runs off of
Cody Road and is the entrance to Independence Pointe Subdivision that was
developed by Finke Homes. Mr. Brinker stated that development of the
subdivision is complete and Finke Homes has indicated they will no longer
provide landscaping and lawn maintenance on Flagstone Drive. Mr. Brinker stated
the residents are currently maintaining the area but are requesting the city
take over the maintenance. Mayor Kriege stated this matter would have to be
treated as a zoning violation, as the property is not owned by the city. Mayor
Kriege asked Melissa Bradford, Zoning Administrator, to notify Finke Homes of
non-compliance. Mr. Brinker stated the residents were under the impression that
the property in question became under city ownership when the developer left
town. Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Brinker that the city’s only recourse is to
request that Finke Homes comply to the zoning ordinance.
4.   Neil Stiegelmeyer introduced himself to Mayor Kriege and Council as the
President of the Deters Company. He stated he was the former Superintendent of
the Kenton County Board of Education. Mr. Stiegelmeyer said the Deters Company,
as owners of the Independence Towne Center, are desirous to have a positive
working relationship with the city.
Proposed Resolution No. 2000-R-08 – Authorizing CDBG Monthly Expenses for
Senior Center
5.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read Resolution No. 2000-R-08 authorizing
the payment of monthly expenses for the Senior Center. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. There was a brief discussion regarding the significance of council
authorizing the payment of all invoices related to the construction of the
Senior Center. Mr. Walker advised there is no legal significance as long as the
funds are budgeted. Mr. Scott informed council that the grant administrator for
this project, Bryan Kirby, has directed the city to accept this procedure in
keeping with auditing standards. Motion carried with all ayes.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to accept Resolution No. 2000-R-08 as read;
seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Roll call vote was answered with four yes votes and
one abstention from Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried.
Discussion of the Proposed Budget for the 2000/01 Fiscal Year
7.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have the first reading of the proposed 2000/
01 Budget; seconded by Mr. Ellison.
8.   Before a vote was taken, council discussed several line items. Mr. Steffen
asked if the Police Department’s personnel line item included the additional
funds needed to bring each officer up to the minimum wage for each position.
Mrs. Guenther stated that it had.
9.   Mrs. Gabbard expressed concern regarding the figure estimated for the
employee health benefits. She stated she would prefer to hold off on a first
reading of the ordinance until the health insurance cost is confirmed. Mr.
Feldhaus stated that if the health insurance rate comes in lower than budgeted
then there would be a surplus. Mayor Kriege explained that the amount in the
proposed budget was for the renewal of the current policy, which had a thirty-
one percent increase. He stated he has instructed our insurance agent to look
for a policy with lower rates, so the budgeted amount will not be exceeded.
10.   Mrs. Gabbard also brought up the matter of attorney fees. She feels the
fees will run higher than the $50,000 budgeted for next year. Mr. Walker stated
he is working with Mayor Kriege to devise a more inclusive retainer contract
and reminded council that the high cost of recent legal expenses were due to
the unusual amount of lawsuits.
11.   Mrs. Gabbard asked about the Cable Board issue and expressed concern that
Independence does not have a resident representative on the Board. Mrs. Yeager
stated that many cities do not have a representative on the Board. Mr. Walker
advised council that if the city decides to terminate association with the
Cable Board that there would be a process by which to do that.
12.   Mr. Steffen asked about the budgeted amount of $275,000 for the Building
Fund. Mrs. Guenther explained this would fund the purchase of land and a
building for the Public Works Department for the storage of vehicles, supplies,
and equipment. Mayor Kriege stated the Building Fund would have no impact on
the General Fund.
13.   Mrs. Gabbard commented that the proposed budget does not address expenses
that will be associated with housing for the Police Department. Mrs. Guenther
stated that some of the expense has been worked into this budget. Mayor Kriege
assured council that proposed facilities for the Police Department would be
presented to council for approval.
14.   Mr. Steffen voiced his objection to the loan proceeds line item under the
Building Fund Revenues since the city would not build this year. Mr. Steffen
made a motion to remove the loan proceeds line item; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard.
A discussion ensued regarding the city’s need to provide future housing
facilities for Public Works, Police Department, and Administration. Mayor
Kriege urged council to afford him some flexibility as the Public Works
Department has no place to store equipment and is limited to renting space
($425/month) in the old Fire Department building on Madison Pike. He commented
that the dump truck purchased this year is sitting outside and feels this
vehicle will depreciate faster being exposed to the elements. Council discussed
prioritizing all the department’s facility needs. Roll call vote on Mr.
Steffen’s motion to remove the loan proceeds line item of $80,000 from the
proposed budget yielded three ayes and two no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and
Mrs. Yeager. Motion carried 3-2.
15.   Mr. Steffen asked how the budgeted amount for the Senior Center Building
was determined. Mayor Kriege stated that standard construction costs were used
to estimate that expense.
16.   Again Mrs. Gabbard stated she would like to wait on the budget until the
final cost comes in on the medical insurance premiums. Mayor Kriege reiterated
that the budgeted amount is based on the thirty-one percent increase with our
current policy and that the cost may go lower if we switch to another company,
but that the cost will not increase.
17.   At this time a roll call vote was taken to have a first reading of the
proposed budget for 2000/01 with three yes votes and two no votes cast by Mrs.
Gabbard and Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 3-2 in favor. Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Gary R. Scott – City Administrator
RESOLUTION NO. 2000-R-09 – JACK WOODS PARKWAY
18.   Mr. Scott directed council to the proposed Resolution that would
designate the entrance driveway into Memorial Park as the Jack Woods Parkway.
He explained that Mr. Woods was instrumental in the founding of the
Independence Recreation Committee and the development of the Sterling Staggs
Park before his untimely death in 1996.
19.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read Resolution No. 2000-R-09; seconded by
Mrs. Yeager. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion carried and Mr.
Walker read the resolution.
20.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-09 as read;
seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 5-0 in favor.
Employee Job Descriptions
21.   Mr. Scott reminded council the employee job descriptions were placed in
their council packets for review.
Award of Grant from Cinergy
22.   Mrs. Yeager informed council that Cinergy has awarded the city a grant in
the amount of $679.30 in recognition of their employee, Councilman Steve
Feldhaus.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Public Works – Jeff Smith
23.   Mr. Smith stated he has placed an advertisement to fill the position of
Public Works laborer that was recently vacated.
Cardinal Engineering – Dan Briggs
24.   Mr. Briggs submitted a report and tabulation sheet for the six bids
received for the 2000-asphalt overlay project. The streets scheduled for
repairs in this project include: Persimmon Drive, Persimmon Court, Sassafras
Drive, Sugar Camp Drive, Wildwood Drive, Woodcrest Drive, Woodmeadow Drive,
Woodtop Drive, and Woodknoll Drive. He stated that Paul Michels & Sons came in
as the low bid and he recommended awarding the contract to them. Mr. Briggs
informed council that the bids received are lower than they were two years ago
and that he had estimated the bids would come in about $50,000 higher than they
did. Mr. Scott asked if Michels & Sons would extend the unit price so that more
streets could be added. Mr. Briggs confirmed that Michels is agreeable to that.
25.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to award the 2000 Asphalt Overlay Project to
Michels & Sons as the lowest and best bid using the unit price for the
contract. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with
five yes votes. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
26.   Justice Lane was mentioned as a street that needs repairs. Mr. Briggs
informed council there is a resident on Justice Lane that claims the street is
his property and will not allow the city to repair it. He suggested council
members speak to Jed Deters who could provide some history on this street.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
27.   Mr. Barbian reported he would be working with Jeff Smith to develop a
five-year plan to bring the existing sidewalks into ADA compliance. He also
advised council that Chris Warneford, Kenton County Public Services Director,
will be meeting with the Planning & Zoning Committee on May 25, 2000 to discuss
the re-routing of some roads while Bristow Road is under reconstruction. In
closing, Mr. Barbian reported that the Board of Adjustments has awarded a
dimensional variance to Skyline Chili, which will be constructed at the
Independence Towne Center.
Zoning Administrator – Melissa Bradford
28.   Ms. Bradford reported that she has been perusing the streets for
violations.
Recreation – Nita Brake
29.   Ms. Brake reported that two bids were received for the Shelter Building
at Memorial Park. She stated that the City Attorney advised her that the bid
received from Miracle Recreation of Kentucky & Tennessee could be disregarded,
as the bid did not follow the specifications outlined in the bid package. She
recommended the bid be awarded to Bluegrass Recreational Products.
30.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to award the bid for the park shelter at
Memorial Park to Bluegrass Recreational Products in the amount of $38,985.00.
Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered by five yes votes.
Motion carried 5-0.
31.   Ms. Brake also reported that the basketball clinic this summer will now
be held at Simon Kenton High School and not Summit View School as originally
planned. She reported the summer program schedule would be published in the May
edition of the city newsletter. Also in the newsletter will be a consumer
survey for the Renaissance project of the downtown area.
Police Department – Shawn Butler
32.   Lt. Butler reported that a bike rodeo would be held on May 7, 2000 at
Kroger’s from 1-5 p.m.. This program will coincide with the Fire District’s
programs. He also reported that the Police Department has been awarded a
thermal imager, which is valued at $24,000. He stated this equipment would be
helpful in locating missing children. In addition to the equipment, which is
absolutely free, the federal government will also pay for the training and the
travel associated with the training. He stated this is a high-tech piece of
equipment and will be a big benefit to the community.
33.   Lt. Butler reported that he is in the process of replacing some vehicles
and purchasing some used vehicles.
OLD BUSINESS
Annexation of Unincorporated Land in the Senour Road Area
34.   Mr. Steffen reported that he has reviewed what was discussed at the last
council meeting as to the procedure that would need to be taken in order to
proceed with this project. Mr. Scott stated that letters have been mailed to
the property owners but that he has only received a few responses on his voice
mail. No written responses have been received by the city.
35.   Mr. Walker submitted a prepared ordinance in accordance with state
statutes on annexations. He advised that once the ordinance passed then the
property owners would have sixty days to file a petition opposing the
annexation and if more than fifty percent sign the petition it would be placed
on the ballot in the November general election. Mr. Walker stressed that
passing this ordinance just lays the groundwork for the annexation.
36.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to read the proposed ordinance relating to the
annexation; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Roll call vote was answered with three
yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Ellison. Motion carried
3-2 in favor and Mr. Walker read the ordinance.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
37.   Mayor Kriege stated the committee has worked on preparing the 2000/01
budget which has been presented to council.
Building Committee
38.   Mayor Kriege stated the committee will be developing a master plan and
exploring options for new facilities for the Police Department, Senior Center
and Administration Departments. He advised the implementation of the master
plan is in the infancy stage and that the committee had a long way to go. He
stated the committee has been working with the architect on the Senior Center
but is not yet prepared to meet with council.
Personnel & Administration Committee
39.   Mrs. Yeager reported the committee has completed work on the employee job
descriptions, which have been presented for adoption.
Planning & Zoning Committee
40.   Mr. Ellison reported that the Scheben Group, Inc. has submitted site
plans for approximately 257 acres on the south side of Cody Road. Troopers
Crossing is the name of the proposed subdivision that will hold approximately
five hundred houses. Mr. Ellison stated the committee would meet with
representatives from the Scheben Group at the next meeting.
41.   Mr. Barbian stated the committee is still reviewing the text amendment
regarding the elimination of pole signs and the increased area of ground signs.
They are also reviewing a PUD modification. Mr. Barbian also stated he has been
looking into a GIS program, but due to budget constraints will not be able to
purchase this year.
42.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Barbian to coordinate a meeting with Chris
Zimmerman, owner of the BP Station at the corner of Madison Pike and Patriot
Way, to settle the matter of installing a turn lane on Madison Pike.
43.   Mr. Ellison directed attention to the letter in the council packets from
the Transportation Cabinet regarding the widening of Madison Pike at the Sylvan
Drive intersection. Mr. Ellison suggested the city respond to the letter by
notifying Mr. Meyers or Mr. Rankin at the Transportation Cabinet that the city
is going to hold the Scheben Group to the original plans for this intersection.
Mr. Ellison also suggested the city stop issuing building permits at the
Liberty Orchard Subdivision until the Scheben Group complies with the road
widening.
Public Safety Committee
44.   Mr. Steffen stated the committee has discussed budget issues and the
current situation with the aging fleet of cruisers and the loss of the leased
vehicles.
45.   Mr. Steffen also reported the renewed Mounted Patrol Program is getting
televised media coverage.
46.   Mr. Steffen also remarked on the recent dismissal of Chief Ed Porter and
expressed his displeasure with Mayor Kriege’s action. Mrs. Gabbard concurred
with Mr. Steffen. Mayor Kriege stated he would not discuss the matter other
than to comment that he felt it was best for the Police Department and no other
reason.
Public Works Committee
47.   Mr. Feldhaus reported that Jeff Smith presented a five-year plan for the
development of the Public Works Department. The committee also discussed hiring
seasonal labor and replacing the employee that recently resigned.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kreige
48.   Mayor Kriege stated he had nothing to report except that he participated
in the Donkey Basketball fundraiser at Simon Kenton High School which was a lot
of fun.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
49.   At 8:30 p.m. a motion was made by Mr. Steffen and seconded by Mrs.
Gabbard to go into executive session for the purpose of discussing personnel
issues and pending litigation according to K.R.S. 61.810 (f) and (c). Roll call
vote was answered with five ayes. Motion carried.
50.   A motion was made by Mr. Ellison and seconded by Mrs. Yeager to return to
regular session. Roll call vote was answered with two yes votes and two no
votes; Mayor Kriege broke the tie and cast a no vote. Motion defeated.
51.   A motion was made by Mr. Ellison and seconded by Mrs. Yeager to return to
regular session. Roll call vote was answered with two yes votes and two no
votes; Mayor Kriege broke the tie by casting a yes vote. Motion carried.
ADJOURNMENT
52.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Roll call
vote was answered with three yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Steffen and
Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 9:03 p.m.
___________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 5, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Rev. Randy McCafferty of Independence Christian Church gave the
invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
were Gary Scott, City Administrator and City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
Approval of the Minutes of the April 27, 2000 Special Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the minutes of the April 27, 2000
special meeting. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes;
6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 1, 2000 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the minutes of the May 1, 2000
council meeting as amended; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion carried with five
ayes and one abstain cast by Mr. Dupps.
Proposed Ordinance to Annex Certain Unincorporated Territories in the Fowler
Creek Road Area
4.   Mayor Kriege turned the floor over to Council Member, Greg Steffen by
asking him to give the audience in attendance a description of the area the
city is proposing to annex and the reason behind the annexation.
5.   Mr. Steffen explained his reason for proposing the annexation was to clean
up the current boundary lines. He went on to describe in detail the areas of
Fowler Creek Road and Pelly Road that would be involved in the annexation. He
also explained that the proposed ordinance would only begin the process of
annexation and the residents would then take the next step to either oppose or
approve the city’s plan.
6.   Mr. Dupps commented he has received phone calls from residents in the
Harvest Hill Subdivision and wanted to point out that that subdivision is not
included in this annexation.
7.   Mayor Kriege opened the floor for discussion. Mr. Feldhaus stated that he
is opposed to this annexation. Mr. Ellison also voiced his objection to the
annexation. Mrs. Gabbard stated that she was originally in favor of the
annexation plan in an effort to explore the interest of the residents in the
area. Mrs. Yeager concurred with Mrs. Gabbard.
8.   Mayor Kriege opened the floor to the public in attendance for comments but
asked that a couple of representatives be appointed to speak for the group. Mr.
Lloyd Brueckner, 135 Pelly Road stated he was against being annexed into the
city. Mr. G.E. Zimmerer, 120 Pelly Road, advised council that five years ago
the city attempted annexation of this area and the residents submitted a
petition with ninety names in opposition to the plan.
9.   Mr. Walker, City Attorney explained that if the proposed ordinance is
passed tonight, then the residents would have sixty days to submit a petition
in opposition. He advised that if more than fifty percent of the property
owners to be annexed opposed the plan then the city could have the issue placed
on the general election ballot in November. Mr. Walker reiterated that the
proposed ordinance would have to pass a second reading tonight in order to
begin the annexation process.
10.   Mr. Zimmerer stated he would proceed with a petition to protect the land
owners interest.
11.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a second reading on the ordinance
proposing annexation of certain unincorporated territories that lie inside the
present city limits. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered
with three yes votes and three no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus, Mrs. Yeager, and
Mr. Ellison. Mayor Kriege cast the deciding vote of no. The motion was defeated
4-3 against a second reading of the ordinance proposing annexation.
Privileges of the Floor
12.   Mr. Jimmy Barton, 30 Locust Lane, addressed council regarding the
condition of the street directly in front of his property. He stated that an
asphalt overlay put down last year but stopped short of the end of the street.
The area that was not surfaced is now deteriorating and requested that this
section of Locust Lane be inspected for repairs. Mr. Barton also inquired about
getting water lines run to Locust Lane. He stated there are water lines all
around Locust Lane but that the residents on the street do not have access to
water lines. Mayor Kriege stated the city would work with the engineers at the
Northern Kentucky Water District to check into the cost and feasibility of
running water lines to the residents on Locust Lane. Mr. Ellison and Mr.
Feldhaus advised Mr. Barton that the Water District would assess the property
owners for this type of project.
13.   Ms. Geneva Wade, 640 Willow Drive, addressed council concerning the
shoddy condition her property was left in after the construction of the Fowler
Creek sewer line. She also voiced her objection to the $280.00 debt reduction
assessment for the vacant lot she owns which she now feels has been destroyed.
Mayor Kriege stated that Mr. Scott and Mr. Smith, of the city’s Public Works
Department, would meet with her tomorrow morning at 10:00 a.m. to inspect her
property.
14.   A resident from the Independence Pointe Subdivision advised council that
Finke Builders are not maintaining the hillside on Flagstone Drive. He stated
that some of the residents worked together to mow the area before the Memorial
Day weekend as Finke has indicated to them that he has no plans to continue
maintenance of the area. This resident also stated that Finke wants to retain
ownership of this property for possible future development. Mr. Scott stated
that he hand delivered a zoning violation notice to Finke Builders regarding
this matter and afterward received a call from a Finke representative who
agreed to continue the maintenance of the area. Mr. Ellison suggested
withholding building permits in other Finke subdivisions in the city if this
problem persists. Mr. Feldhaus asked who was responsible for the sidewalks on
Flagstone Drive. Mr. Walker stated that Finke is responsible. Mr. Dupps
expressed concern that the maintenance of entryways, retention ponds, etc. is
becoming a common problem when a developer leaves town and expects the city to
care for this land that is still owned by the developer. Mayor Kriege stated
that he does not want the residents maintaining the area to become the
permanent solution to the matter.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances – 1st
Reading
15.   Mrs. Gabbard stated she would like to delay the first reading of this
ordinance until she has had ample time to review the supplement. There was a
brief discussion regarding the changes to the codification. Mr. Walker
clarified the intent of this ordinance; being that it was the addition of the
1999 ordinances to the current codification.
16.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to adopt the 1999 supplement to the Code of Ordinances. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with three yes votes and three
no votes cast by Mrs. Gabbard, Mr. Dupps, and Mr. Steffen. Mayor Kriege voted
yes to break the tie. Motion carried 4-3 in favor. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Appointing an Alcoholic Beverage Administrator
17.   Mr. Steffen stated he requested the city attorney to draft the proposed
ordinance as the city will be reclassified to a third class city effective in
July and as a third class city will be required to appoint an alcoholic
beverage control administrator. He suggested this be a duty of the city
administrator. Mr. Feldhaus suggested appointing an existing ABC State officer.
Mrs. Yeager and Mr. Ellison expressed concern at adding another level of
bureaucracy. After a brief discussion, it was decided to have the city attorney
research this matter further.
Proposed Ordinance – Amendment of Election Procedures
18.   Mr. Walker, City Attorney introduced an ordinance that would require
primary elections for the nomination of candidates to a city office regardless
of the number of candidates running for each office. He explained that primary
elections are a requirement of a third class city. Mr. Walker suggested that in
order to avoid any confusion that council might want to delay adopting this
ordinance until the current election cycle is over. Mr. Steffen agreed that the
first reading should be delayed until August. Mr. Feldhaus questioned the
necessity of enacting this type of ordinance because in recent years the city
abolished primary elections in order to entice more candidates to run for
office. He stated that having a primary election requires candidates to file in
February and many people are not thinking that far in advance of a November
general election. Mr. Steffen commented that ‘write-in’ candidates could file
ten days prior to Election Day. To answer Mr. Feldhaus’ question, Mr. Walker
stated that as a third-class city, Independence must hold primary elections. He
went on to advise council that the third-class status does not take effect
until July 15, 2000 and that the city is still operating under the fifth-class
status for this year’s election.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Zoning/Building Permit Fees
19.   Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian, advised council this proposed
ordinance is being reintroduced with the revisions recommended by the Planning
& Zoning Committee. He stated that the Homebuilders Association has accepted
the proposed fee increase to be fair and equitable. Mayor Kriege stated that
since changes were made to the proposed ordinance from the original first
reading last September that a reading of this ordinance would become a first
reading again. Mr. Barbian pointed out a few other modifications in the
ordinance and a brief discussion followed.
20.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend the schedule of fees for zoning and building permits. Mr.
Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one
no vote cast by Mr. Feldhaus. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment to Zoning Ordinance Regarding Sign
Regulations
21.   Mr. Walker suggested combining the two proposed ordinances submitted to
council regarding the text amendments to the zoning ordinance revising Section
14.6 and Section 14.7 classifying types of signs.
22.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a first reading of a proposed ordinance
to adopt a text amendment to the zoning ordinance revising Section 14.6 and
Section 14.7 regarding sign regulations. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered 6-0 in favor. Mr. Walker read a combined summary of the two
ordinances submitted. He advised that by combining the two ordinances into one
ordinance it would save advertising costs.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 99/2000 Budget Ordinance No. 1999-O-05
23.   Mayor Kriege presented an ordinance that would amend the current fiscal
year’s budget. He advised this could be read as an emergency since the next
regular meeting is in July. Or if council chooses, a special meeting could be
scheduled this month to transact a second reading. A brief discussion ensued.
Mr. Steffen stated he did not feel this constituted an emergency because a
special meeting could be scheduled this month to have a second reading of the
ordinance. Mr. Feldhaus stated that council might not be able to comprise a
quorum as many people go on vacation during the month of June.
24.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to declare an emergency for the reading of the
proposed ordinance to amend the 99/00 budget. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion.
Roll call was answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Steffen
and Mrs. Gabbard. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
25.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to enact Ordinance Number 2000-O-07 amending
the Fiscal Year 99/00 Budget Ordinance Number 1999-O-05, to be read in summary.
Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call vote was unanimous – 6-0 in favor.
Motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Second Reading Adopting Budget Ordinance No. 2000-O-08
26.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to adopt a budget for fiscal year 2000/01. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. Discussion followed.
27.   Mrs. Gabbard asked where the $7,000 was derived to increase the police
department’s salary minimums. Mrs. Guenther stated that it had to be taken from
the reserve account. Mr. Dupps asked how the bank deposit tax revenue was
calculated. Mrs. Guenther stated that this figure is an estimate, which she
feels is conservative since this will be the first year that the city collects
this tax.
28.   Mrs. Gabbard questioned the miscellaneous expenditure for the transfer of
$40,000 to the Senior Center. Mrs. Guenther stated this was for six months of
operating expenses; $20,000 for interest on the loan and $20,000 for a grant
writer. Mrs. Gabbard voiced her concern at hiring another employee and
suggested the next city administrator that is hired should write the grants.
She also pointed out that the Special Events line item has increased
significantly. She stated that she foresees the city will need to cut expenses
or services or raise property taxes to cover the additional expenses.
29.   Mr. Feldhaus stated that just because the expense was being budgeted
doesn’t mean it will necessarily be spent; just available if needed. Mrs.
Gabbard also questioned the loan proceeds line item of $330,000. Mrs. Guenther
replied that it is estimated it will cost $600,000 to built the Senior Center
and the city will need to secure a construction loan to fund that expense. Mrs.
Gabbard stated she did not see the need to budget expenses that may not be
needed until April or May. Mr. Feldhaus stated that the budgeted funds would
not be moved until there are expended.
30.   At this time a roll call vote was taken on the motion to have a second
reading on proposed Ordinance Number 2000-O-08. Roll call was answered with
four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mrs. Gabbard and Mr. Steffen. Motion
carried 4-2 in favor and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Motion to adopt Budget Ordinance No. 2000-O-08
31.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance Number 2000-O-08
establishing a budget for the fiscal year 2000/01. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Steffen stated the city is spending too
much money and that taxes will need to be increased if expenses continue to
climb. Mr. Feldhaus voiced objection to Mr. Steffen’s statement and reminded
him of the various tax proposals he has introduced to council the last several
months. Mr. Steffen replied that all tax levies introduced by him would have
required to be placed on the November general election ballot for the residents
to vote on with the exception of the bank tax which the county was collecting
because of the city’s failure to take action to collect this money.
32.   Mayor Kriege asserted that the he worked along with the staff and feels
they were able to trim this budget of all excess. He stated that the revenue
figures appear deficient because it was conservatively estimated and the
increase in expenditures is a result of growing pains. Mrs. Gabbard again
stressed the need to cut services or raise taxes. Mr. Feldhaus suggested that
if the projected revenue comes up short then the budget could be revised to
address the situation. Mayor Kriege stated that his greatest concern was the
practice of pulling funds from the reserve account in order to balance the
budget. He advised that each department have been asked to develop a five-year
plan to project the operation costs of that department. He expressed a serious
need to look at future budgets, not just the current one.
33.   At this point, Mayor Kriege requested the vote to be taken on the motion/
second already on the floor to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-08 establishing a
budget for fiscal year 2000/01. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and
two no votes cast by Mrs. Gabbard and Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Administrator – Gary. R. Scott
34.   Mr. Scott stated that four bids were received for the maintenance of the
lawn and ballfields. He stated that he has reviewed them and recommended
contracting with Malco who currently provides this service to the city. Mr.
Scott stated that Malco’s bid was overall one of the low bids and commented
that their previous service was reliable, often going over and above what is
required. Mrs. Gabbard remarked that Malco has provided the city with several
years of service.
Award of the Lawn and Ballfield Maintenance Contract
35.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to award the contract for the lawn and
ballfield maintenance to Malco Services as the best bid. Mr. Ellison seconded
the motion. Roll call was answered with six yes votes; motion carried 6-0 in
favor.
Motion for a Brief Recess
36.   Upon motion by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mr. Steffen the meeting was
interrupted for a brief recess. Motion carried with all ayes.
37.   Upon motion by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mr. Dupps the meeting
reconvened. Motion carried with all ayes.
Employee Job Description
38.   Mr. Scott advised the job descriptions have been updated and he and the
city attorney have been discussing the appropriate manner to adopt this
document. Mr. Walker stated that some of the job descriptions have been adopted
by ordinance and if council chooses to adopt the revisions by resolution then
those ordinances will need to be repealed. He advised that in the future the
creation of a job position should be adopted by ordinance but that the job
description, wherein detail of the position is specified, should be adopted by
resolution. He stated he would submit new documents for adoption at next
month’s meeting. Mr. Dupps suggested any changes be submitted to the Personnel
Committee prior to the next council meeting. Mayor Kriege stated the amendments
to the Personnel Policy would also be submitted at the July meeting. There was
a brief discussion regarding the wording of the police department eligibility
list. Mr. Scott stated he would re-write that section and present it to the
Personnel Committee.
39.   Mayor Kriege asked council if they wanted to re-schedule the July 3, 2000
meeting as it was on a holiday weekend. The majority of the council members
indicated they would be available for the July 3rd meeting so it was not
necessary to re-schedule.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
40.   Mr. Smith advised council that he had hired a new employee – Dan
Clifford. He indicated that Dan as been on board for three weeks and has been a
big help. Mr. Smith also advised that “Spring Clean-Up” was a huge success with
nineteen dumpsters filled throughout the city.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
41.   Mr. Whitacre reported that the concrete street repairs should begin in
two weeks and the asphalt repairs in three week, weather permitting.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
42.   Mr. Barbian reported that Skyline Chili would begin construction of their
new restaurant in the Independence Towne Center around July 5th. He also
reported the possibility of a car wash going in near the Cherokee Shopping
Center.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
43.   Ms. Brake reported the summer activities would start on Thursday. She
stated that plans are underway for the July 4th Celebration. She reported the
Main Street Program has been approved and the Renaissance Kentucky application
has been received by the state. In closing, she reported that she is working
toward a Master Gardner certificate and has seven hours left of her internship.
She reminded council the annual Flag Day Ceremony would be held at Staggs Park
at 7:30 p.m. on June 14, 2000.
Police Department – Shawn Butler
44.   Mr. Butler reported that the department’s canine, Barry, had to be
retired as he was suffering from arthritis. He requested council to declare
Barry as surplus property so that he could be donated or sold for a minimum fee
to a trainer. He advised that a canine patrol trainer in Ohio was willing to
take Barry and sign off on any future liability.
45.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to declare Barry as surplus property and
authorize the police department to sell or donate; seconded by Mr. Steffen.
Roll call was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
46.   Mr. Butler also requested that a 1993 cruiser be declared as surplus
property. Mrs. Yeager made a motion to declare as surplus property a 1993 Crown
Victoria cruiser and to publicize Notice for Bids; seconded by Mr. Steffen.
Roll vote was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
47.   Mr. Butler announced that five officers – John Lonaker, Amy Chapman, Tony
Lucas, Brian Butler and Danny Bridges received certificates of merit from the
National Missing and Exploited Children’s Center for their investigative work
in a high-profile national child pornography case.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
48.   Nothing to report.
Building Committee
49.   Mayor Kriege stated the building committee would be reviewing a design
for the Senior Center and proceeding with the funding and construction.
Personnel Policy Committee
50.   Mayor Kriege stated the most recent revisions would be submitted at the
next council meeting on July 3, 2000.
Planning & Zoning Committee
51.   Mr. Barbian reported the committee will be reviewing a preliminary plat
for a new development on Cody Road called Troopers Crossing. The committee will
be addressing some concerns such as the frontage width and the amount of green
space. Mr. Ellison stated the Kenton County and Municipal Planning and Zoning
Commission have recommended this development for approval. He stated he would
like to see the city send a letter to the Commission regarding their consistent
approval of this type of development. Mrs. Gabbard agreed. Mr. Dupps stated
that the Planning Commission is not addressing certain issues important to the
city.
52.   Mr. Feldhaus announced that the Zoning Administrator, Melissa Bradford
has resigned. Mayor Kriege stated she has taken a job with another city.
Public Safety Committee
53.   This committee had scheduling conflicts this month, so the next meeting
will be on June 20, 2000 at 5:30 p.m. in the offices of the Police Department.
54.   Mr. Ellison commented there is an ordinance restricting parking on the
north side of Independence Road and asked the committee to look into this
safety matter.
Public Works Committee
55.   Nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
56.   Mayor Kriege advised council the city has received notice from the
Northern Kentucky Water Service District of two projects that they recently
completed to improve service in Independence and surrounding areas. The
District also reported they are in the process of other improvement phases
which will double the supply to Independence. Mayor Kriege stated that last
year’s water shortage in this area prompted the Water District to make the
necessary expansion.
57.   Mayor Kriege presented a resolution that would authorize the creation of
a non-profit organization to operate and manage funds of the Senior Citizens
Center.
58.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read the proposed resolution that would
create a non-profit organization for the Senior Citizens Center. Mr. Dupps
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried
6-0 in favor and Mr. Walker read the proposed resolution.
59.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-10 creating a non-
profit organization for the Senior Citizens Center; seconded by Mr. Feldhaus.
Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen.
Motion carried 5-1.
Adjournment
60.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion
carried and the meeting adjourned at 9:40 p.m.
__________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JULY 3, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Rev. Randy McCafferty of Independence Christian Church gave the
invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
Approval of the Minutes of the June 5, 2000 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the minutes of the June 5, 2000
council meeting as amended, seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Manor Hill Development – Approval of Stage II Plans
3.   Attorney, Jerry Dusing appeared before council to represent Mr. Kurt
Keeney, developer of the Manor Hill Subdivision on Marshall Road. Mr. Dusing
reported that the Kenton County and Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission has
approved the Stage II Plans for the subdivision and advised the matter was now
before them. City Attorney, Mr. Walker advised council that they are to take
action based on the recommendation of the Commission. Mr. Dusing stated no
changes were made to the preliminary plans.
4.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the Stage II development plan for
the Manor Hill Subdivision; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll call vote was
answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen. Motion
carried 5-1 in favor.
Privileges of the Floor
5.   Mr. Tom Brinker, 1192 Constitution Drive, thanked Mayor Kriege and council
for the city’s assistance enforcing the lawn maintenance of the entryway into
the Independence Pointe Subdivision. He stated that Finke Homes has committed
to mowing the area every two weeks. Mayor Kriege commented that the city would
continue to monitor the situation throughout the summer.
Proposed Ordinance to Adopt the Supplement to the Code of Ordinances – Second
Reading
6.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion for a second reading of the proposed ordinance
to adopt a supplement to the Code of Ordinances; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll
call was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor and Mr.
Walker read the proposed ordinance.
7.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-09 that would
provide a supplement to the Code of Ordinances. Motion seconded by Mr.
Feldhaus. Roll call was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance to Amend the Zoning & Building Permit Fees – Second Reading
8.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading, in title only, of the
proposed ordinance to amend the zoning and building permit fees. Motion
seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll call was answered with six yes votes. Motion
carried and Mr. Walker read the title only of the proposed ordinance.
9.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-10 amending the
zoning and building permit fees. Mr. Feldhaus seconded the motion. Roll call
vote was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance for Text Amendment to Zoning Ordinance regarding Sign
Regulations – Second Reading
10.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance for the text amendment to the zoning ordinance regarding sign
regulations in Sections 14.6 and 14.7, which was seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll
call vote was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried and Mr. Walker read
the proposed ordinance.
11.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-11 approving the
text amendment to the zoning ordinance. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll
call vote was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance - Appointment of an Alcoholic Beverage Administrator – 1st
Reading
12.   Next on the agenda was the proposed ordinance to appoint an Alcoholic
Beverage Administrator. City Attorney, Mr. Walker explained this ordinance
would create the position, which is required for cities of the third class. He
stated that during his research he learned that the county ABC officer cannot
hold both a city and county position but that the city could enter into an
interlocal agreement to procure that county official to fill the position for
the city. He also advised that another city officer could be appointed. Mr.
Feldhaus suggested the city approach the county to see if they were interested
in signing an interlocal agreement for this position’s services. Mr. Walker
informed council that by statute the Mayor has the authority to make the
appointment for this position. Mayor Kriege stated he was agreeable to an
interlocal agreement with the county.
13.   After the brief discussion to re-word Section I of the proposed ordinance
Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed ordinance
providing for a city alcoholic beverage administrator in compliance with KRS
241.160. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with six yes
votes. Motion carried and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Repealing Job Descriptions for Certain Non-Elected City
Officers – 1st Reading
14.   City Attorney, Mr. Walker explained the purpose of the proposed ordinance
was to repeal the various employee job descriptions that had been originally
adopted by ordinance so that they could be re-adopted by resolution. He went on
to say that in the past as employee positions were created the job description
was adopted by ordinance. He advised that in the future only the creation of a
position be adopted by ordinance and that the job description be adopted by
resolution.
15.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to repeal the job descriptions for certain non-elected city offices.
Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Steffen voiced
some concern regarding the job descriptions for the contracted positions of
treasurer, building inspector and city attorney. Mr. Walker advised these could
be deleted. Mr. Steffen also suggested repealing Section 35.40 that pertains to
a Volunteer Fire Department which the city no longer operate. Council concurred
on the suggested revisions to the proposed ordinance. Roll call vote was
answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Employee Job Descriptions for Non-Elected City
Officers – 1st Reading
16.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to adopt the employee job descriptions for non-elected city officers.
Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Mr. Walker defined the term ‘city officer’ as
the City Administrator, City Clerk, Police Chief and Zoning Administrator as
these positions hold a certain amount of authority. Roll call vote was answered
with six yes votes; motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Resolution No. 2000-R-11 – Amendment to the Personnel Policy
17.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read Resolution No. 2000-R-11 to amend the
Personnel Policy. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. There was a brief discussion
regarding the wording regarding the testing of police officers as it relates to
state statutes. Acting Police Chief, Shawn Butler clarified the language in
that section of the job description. Roll call was answered with six yes votes;
motion carried 6-0 in favor. Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2000-R-11.
18.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-11; seconded by
Mr. Feldhaus. Roll call vote was answered with six yes votes; motion carried 6-
0 in favor.
Proposed Resolution – Adoption of an Updated Employee Pay Plan
19.   Mayor Kriege advised that the employee pay plan should be updated on an
annual basis in order to keep up with inflation. He apologized for the late
distribution of this document and indicated that this resolution could be
postponed until next month’s meeting if council would like more time to review
the plan. Acting Police Chief, Shawn Butler advised that some of the numbers
appeared erroneous. Several council members agreed it would be best to revisit
the pay plan at the August meeting.
20.   Mr. Dupps stated that the Personnel Committee discussed granting back pay
to the police officers entitled to the shift differential due to the change in
Section VI.16 of the Personnel Policy. Mayor Kriege agreed and stated it was a
small amount of money. Shawn Butler stated those wages would be made
retroactive.
Resolution No. 2000-R-12 – CDBG Monthly Payment of Expenses for the Senior
Center
21.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-12 authorizing
the monthly payment of expenses relating to the construction of the Senior
Center. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with six yes
votes; motion carried 6-0 in favor.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
22.   Mayor Kriege advised that most department heads were not present at this
meeting but that their reports were included in the council packets and any
questions could be asked at next month’s meeting. Mrs. Gabbard stated the
residents on Justice Lane have inquired when the public works department will
return to finish spreading the four tons of gravel. He advised that questioned
be directed to Jeff Smith.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
23.   Mr. Whitacre reported the concrete street repairs have begun. He stated
that a large void was discovered when a section of Clubhouse Drive was torn
away. He reasons the void was caused by water erosion under the street. Mr.
Whitacre advised doing a procedure called slabjacking to solidify the street
before laying that section of the concrete, otherwise the street will crack.
Mr. Dupps asked about diverting the water elsewhere. Mr. Whitacre stated that
if the void is filled then the water should stay on the street’s surface. Mayor
Kriege asked what streets were being repaired. Mr.Whitacre answered that
currently the Hunters Green and Clubhouse/Wedgewood Drive areas were being
repaired.
Zoning Concerns
24.   Mrs. Gabbard stated that she had some questions for Kevin Barbian. She
would like him to inspect a report of a large camper parked illegally on
Roselawn Drive. She also stated that she has heard that new zoning permits are
being issued without prior inspections and that some of the new subdivisions
are not complying with ADA regulations.
Recreation – Fourth of July Celebration
25.   Mayor Kriege distributed a report from Nita Brake. He encouraged everyone
to attend the July 4th Celebration that is being sponsored by the city. The
celebration will include a parade, picnic, children activities throughout the
day, landing of a Blackhawk Helicopter, fireworks display and shuttlebuses will
be provided from area parking lots.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget Committee
26.   Nothing to report.
Building Committee
27.   Mayor Kriege reported the next meeting would be held on Monday, July 10,
2000 at 5:30 p.m. at the Administration Building. The committee will be meeting
with Moody/Nolan architects and reviewing the progress of the Senior Center.
They will also discuss the matter of funding planned facilities.
Personnel Committee
28.   The committee met and presented the changes for adoption by council,
which was accomplished earlier in this meeting.
Planning & Zoning Committee
29.   Mr. Steffen proposed passing a resolution to voice the city’s opposition
to a proposed zone change for a 36-acre site located to the south of Bristow
Road and north of Hogreffe Road. He reported the zone would be changed from R-
1B and R-1C to R-1D, which would permit a minimum lot size of 9,000 square
feet. Mr. Steffen stated that even though the property is not within the city
limits, it is on the border and he feels it does not conform to the
Comprehensive Plan. He stated he is unable to attend the public hearing on this
zone change which is being held on Thursday, July 6, 2000 by the Kenton County
& Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission but urged the Mayor or another council
member to attend to represent the city. Mayor Kriege concurred and also
suggested the city attend the Kenton County Fiscal Court meeting. Mayor Kriege
and Mr. Dupps stated they would attend the Planning Commission’s public hearing
on Thursday.
30.   Upon motion by Mr. Steffen and second by Mr. Dupps the city will propose
a resolution to voice opposition to the planned zone change on Bristow Road
north of Hogreffe Road, case number 1468R. Roll call vote was answered with six
yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
31.   Mr. Ellison asked if the city is participating in the update of the
Comprehensive Plan. Mayor Kriege stated the city staff is working on this.
Public Safety Committee
32.   Shawn Butler reported the stats for the police department for the past
month. He also announced that Madison Pike will be shut down from Summit View
Schools to Delaware Crossing during the July 4th Parade and the officers will
divert traffic around the area.
33.   Mr. Dupps stated the next meeting would be held on July 18, 2000 at 5:30
p.m. at the Police Department offices.
Public Works Committee
34.   Mayor Kriege stated that the next quarterly meeting for this committee is
on July 12, 2000. Mr. Feldhaus stated he is unable to attend on that day. Mayor
Kriege stated they would look into rescheduling.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
35.   Mayor Kriege announced that he is promoting Lt. Shawn Butler to
permanently fill the vacant position of Police Chief. He stated that it is time
to provide the department with some stability. Mrs. Gabbard stated that Lt.
Butler, as Acting-Chief, has all the authority of the Police Chief and that
since there is pending litigation with former Chief Ed Porter she wondered
where that would leave Lt. Butler if Ed Porter were reinstated. City Attorney,
Mr. Walker explained that in a typical case when a former employee petition the
court for reinstatement and the employee wins the lawsuit, they generally are
awarded money not restored to their former position. He stated there are very
few case law instances where a court ordered reinstatement of the position with
an employer. Mr. Walker advised that the city’s insurance company attorney will
be at the August hearing regarding the lawsuit filed by Mr. Porter
36.   Mayor Kriege felt that appointing Shawn Butler as Police Chief was the
right thing to do for the city. Mr. Steffen stated that council is not required
to approve the Chief of Police position. Mr. Ellison agreed that it was the
Mayor’s job to make this appointment. Mr. Walker stated that if council wanted
to waive their approval of this appointment then they could do that. Mayor
Kriege stated that council’s approval would be a good opportunity to show
support for Lt. Butler. Mr. Dupps agreed with Mr. Ellison that the Mayor has
the authority to hire the Police Chief without council approval.
37.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve Executive Order 2000-EO-07
appointing Shawn Butler to the position of Chief of Police. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with four yes votes by Mr.
Feldhaus, Mr. Ellison, Mrs. Yeager and Mr. Dupps, one no vote cast by Mrs.
Gabbard and one abstain by Mr. Steffen. Mrs. Gabbard clarified her vote by
stating that the appointment of Police Chief is an executive decision and does
not require council approval. Motion carried 4-1-1.
Executive Session
38.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to go into executive session for the purpose
of discussing property acquisition and personnel matters according to K.R.S.
61.810 (b) and (f). Motion carried with all ayes.
39.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mr.
Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes.
Approval of Renewing the Contract with the City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker
40.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mrs. Yeager authorization was
given to Mayor Kriege to enter into a contract with H. Lawson Walker for legal
counsel services for the city. Roll call vote was answered with six yes votes.
Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Adjournment
41.   Motion was made by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Steffen to adjourn the
meeting. Motion carried with all ayes. The meeting adjourned at 8:55 p.m.
____________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
AUGUST 28, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Rev. Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Jim Ellison, Eric Dupps, Donna Yeager, Barbara Gabbard, Gregory
Steffen and Steve Feldhaus answered roll call. Also in attendance was attorney
Mr. William Gullett from Brown, Todd and Heyburn who was sitting in for H.
Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
§   Proposed 2000 Tax Rate for Real and Personal Property
§   Appointment of City Administrator
§   Proposed 2000 Trash Assessment Rate
§   Proposed Ordinance to Amend Ordinance No. 1999-O-14 regarding the Lakefield
Subd.
§   Contracting with NKAPC for the city’s Zoning Administration
§   Bristow Meadows Development
§   Pay Play
Proposed 2000 Tax Rate for Real and Personal Property –1st Reading of the
Ordinance
3.   Mayor Kriege presented the proposed ordinance imposing the tax rates for
both real and personal property for the year 2000. He stated the proposal was
the compensating rate plus four percent. The four-percent increase would only
be applicable on real estate property.
4.   Upon review of the proposed ordinance, Mr. Feldhaus asked how much revenue
was budgeted for the 2000/01 fiscal year. He also asked the Mayor how the extra
revenue would be spent. Mayor Kriege stated there were no definite allocations
at this time but expressed a desire to plan the construction of sidewalks. Mr.
Feldhaus expressed concern that the proposed tax rate would generate more
revenue than was budgeted. Mr. Ellison commented that the budgeted amount was
just an estimate of the revenue, not the exact number.
5.   Mrs. Gabbard expressed concern of the term “personal property” in the
proposed ordinance. She felt the residents might fear that their personal
property would also be subject to taxation. Mr. Gullett explained that the term
“personal” is used because it is all-inclusive and is widely accepted in this
type of document. Mayor Kriege explained the only personal property that is
taxed by the city is for commercial inventory and not for residential personal
items.
6.   Mr. Dupps asked Mayor Kriege when the public hearing would be held to take
citizen comments regarding this rate. Mr. Steffen made a motion to hold a
public hearing, seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. Mayor Kriege advised the public
hearing has been scheduled for 6:30 p.m. on September 11, 2000, one-half hour
before the regularly scheduled council meeting. Mr. Steffen and Mrs. Gabbard
withdrew their motion and second.
7.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed ordinance
imposing the real and personal property tax rate for 2000. Mrs. Yeager seconded
the motion. There was a brief discussion regarding Section III that establishes
the penalty and interest rates for delinquent tax payments. It was decided to
set the penalty rate at fifteen percent and the interest rate at six percent
per annum. Roll call was taken and answered with all ayes. Motion carried. Mr.
Gullett read the proposed ordinance.
Appointment of City Administrator
8.   Mayor Kriege read a prepared statement wherein he reported on the search
to fill the position of City Administrator. The statement is attached to these
minutes as a part of the official record.
9.   Ex-Mayor Jim Kudera, 80 McMillan Drive, concurred with Mayor Kriege’s
remarks. Moreover, Mr. Kudera reprimanded the council members for their failure
to support Mayor Kriege and scolded them for prolonging petty squabbles. Mr.
Kudera stated he was ashamed and embarrassed by council’s behavior and informed
them that it was time to serve the residents they represent in this city.
10.   Mrs. Gabbard, Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Ellison wished to make rebuttals to
Mr. Kudera’s personal charges. Mrs. Gabbard was upset that Mayor Kriege did not
permit the council members to dispute Mr. Kudera’s attacks before he stormed
out of the council chambers. She commented this was a good opportunity for the
citizens to see Mr. Kudera, who is a candidate for a council seat in the
general election this year.
11.   There was a brief exchange of comments regarding the City Administrator
position. Mrs. Gabbard stated she would not endorse a personal friend of the
Mayor’s for the position and expressed concern for his lack of communication.
Mayor Kriege stated the committee he formed interviewed four candidates out of
sixty applicants for the job. Mr. Dupps was part of that committee and sat in
on the interviews. He stated that he had reported this information to council
and no one asked if they were to be involved in the interview process. Mayor
Kriege stated they would continue daily operations with the existing staff in
the absence of a City Administrator. He also advised that he is personally
putting in long hours on city matters as well as his full time job. In closing,
Mayor Kriege reiterated that he stands by the procedure that was used to
conduct the search for a City Administrator.
12.   Mr. Dupps confirmed Mayor Kriege’s position that the candidates
interviewed for the position were very qualified possessing the municipal
experience and education required. He stated that as a third class city there
are commercial and business interests that need to be addressed. Mr. Dupps also
commented the city’s rapid growth demands the position of a full time
administrator.
13.   Mr. Feldhaus frowned on the television cameras present for this special
meeting and suggested that others were also guilty of political nonsense. He
also objected to Mayor Kriege’s refusal to allow rebuttals to Mr. Kudera’s
accusations. In addition, Mr. Feldhaus cited the following reasons why he would
not support Mayor Kriege’s candidate: objected to the proposed three-year
contract, as the conditions of the contract were not discussed with council;
the candidate had no experience in the State of Kentucky; did not review the
resumes of the other candidates vying for the position, and did not meet the
candidate. He commented that in the past council had the opportunity to meet
with the top three or four candidates and review their resumes. Mrs. Gabbard
also had objections to a three-year contract.
14.   Mayor Kriege stated that in all good conscious he could not bring in a
City Administrator at this time. Mrs. Gabbard reminded Mayor Kriege of his
obligation to fill the position. There was a brief exchange of comments
regarding the benefits that could be provided to a city administrator.
15.   In closing, Mr. Steffen wanted to explain that the legal fees that Mr.
Kudera made reference to were not due to political issues, but were in large
part due to lawsuits with AT&T, who wanted to erect a cell tower in the local
cemetery and lawsuits with developers that were denied zone requests. He stated
that this money for legal representation was well spent and in the best
interest of the citizens.
Proposed 2000 Trash Assessment Rate –1st Reading of the Ordinance
16.   Mr. Feldhaus asked if the proposed rate of $89.40 was a “pass through”
rate. Pat Taney, City Clerk advised that it was. She also stated this is an
increase of $2.52 from last year and that the increase is minimal because the
city is in the fourth year of a five-year contract with Rumpke.
17.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to impose a trash assessment rate of $89.40 for the year 2000. Mr.
Steffen seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried and Mr. Gullett read the proposed ordinance.
Discussion of Lakefield Subdivision Plans for Park Area
18.   Nita Brake reported to council that they have recently learned that the
green space donated to the city by Drees in the Lakefield Subdivision includes
part ownership of a lake. She stated the green space is to be developed as a
park and is divided by a street with the lake on one side of the road. She
reported that ownership of the lake is shared with several other properties on
which homes have been built. She advised council that they were unaware that
the land Drees was donating contained a lake and she expressed concern that the
lake could be a liability for the city. Ms. Brake reported she is working with
a Drees representative and feels certain they will agree to take back the lake
area to develop as lakefront lots. She has also requested that Drees develop
the park according to ADA regulations, which they have taken under
consideration but not committed to. Mr. Steffen stated that he remembers seeing
the lake and though it would be nice but had not considered the liability
issue. He made a motion to turn this matter over to the Planning and Zoning
Committee to meet with Drees to work out an agreement for the development of
the park area. Mrs. Yeager advised council that the city attorney’s office was
currently in discussions with Drees about this. Mr. Steffen withdrew his
motion. Mr. Gullett stated that the attorney’s office needs direction from
council as to what they do and do not want with regard to the lake area and the
development of the park. In the original ordinance (Ordinance No. 1999-O-14)
that granted the map amendment the green space was to be developed as a park
and then deeded over to the city for future ownership and maintenance. In
closing, Ms. Brake stated she would like to see the park area of 1.83 acres be
ADA accessible, include four or five parking spaces and not have pea gravel in
the play area. They will continue negotiations with Drees.
Contract Zoning Administration with the Northern Ky. Area Planning Commission
19.   Mayor Kriege presented council with a proposed contract with the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission for the city’s zoning administration. He
introduced Russell Cloyd who answered questions for council. Mr. Feldhaus asked
how much time would be spent in Independence. Mr. Cloyd stated the work load
would dictate the amount of time spend in the city but that they would be able
to provide forty hours per week if that is what Independence wants. Mrs.
Gabbard asked if there would be follow up on zoning violation complaints. Mr.
Cloyd stated they would be hiring two additional staff members to handle the
workload. He stated that the Planning Commission has recently obtained a new
software program that will aid in tracking the zoning violations for follow-up
after the initial contact. Mayor Kriege stated the Planning Commission would
provide council with a monthly report.
20.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into a
contract with Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission for the city’s zoning
administration. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Mrs. Gabbard asked if legal
counsel had reviewed this contract. Mayor Kriege stated the proposed contract
is nearly identical to the contract with other cities in Northern Kentucky. Mr.
Steffen asked Mayor Kriege if he had given up on hiring a city employee to fill
the position of Zoning Administrator. Mayor Kriege stated he received few
responses to the advertisement for the position. He suggested trying the
services of NKAPC as an immediate solution, then re-evaluating the arrangement
in six months. He added that NKAPC would handle the Board of Adjustment and
Code Enforcement Board meetings. Mrs. Gabbard commented that she feels the city
needs a full time employee to handle zoning issues and would like to see the
search to fill this position continued. Mr. Feldhaus agreed but stated that the
city needs zoning assistance now while continuing the search. Mr. Ellison
concurred. There was a brief discussion to change the job description for the
Zoning Administrator to include more benefits. Roll call vote was answered with
six yes votes, with Mrs. Gabbard and Mr. Steffen clarifying their vote by
stating they wanted the city to continue the search for a city employee to fill
the position of Zoning Administrator. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Discussion of Bristow Meadows Development
21.   Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian reported that the drainage calculations
for the Stage II development of Bristow Meadows should be submitted by the next
regular council meeting. The recommendations will be made by then so that
council can vote on the matter. He assured council that he would not issue a
Certificate of Occupancy until this is resolved. Mr. Scott Holten, 853 Bristow
Road, expressed concern for the culvert pipe running under Bristow Road and
asked if the developer (Long & Kiser) would be permitted to continue
construction while this is being decided. Mr. Barbian stated he did not feel it
was necessary to issue a “stop work” order. Mr. Feldhaus commented that two
buildings are under construction. Mr. Barbian advised the developer is
currently hanging drywall but assured council that he would not issue a
Certificate of Occupancy before this matter is resolved.
Adjournment
22.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion
carried 6-0 and the meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m.
____________________________________
THOMAS M. KRIEGE, MAYOR
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 11, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege was out of town on business. Council Member, Donna Yeager
presided at the meeting and called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Rev. Randy McCafferty of Independence Christian Church
gave the invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison,
Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in
attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to amend the agenda by moving the approval of
the Special Council Meeting minutes below the Mayor’s Report and adding council
comments after that. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call vote was
answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried
5-1 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the August 7, 2000 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to approve the minutes of the August 7, 2000
council meeting; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call was answered with all ayes.
Motion carried 6-0.
UPDATE ON SENIOR CENTER PROJECT
4.   Mark Gribler, architect for Moody/Nolan Ltd., reported to council
regarding the recent bids received by the city for the construction of a new
Senior Center building at Memorial Park. He reported that the sealed bids were
received and publicly opened on Wednesday, August 30, 2000. He stated that
eight proposals were received with the three lowest bids from Hemmer Industries
($1,082,000.), Century Construction ($1,156,000.) and Mark Spaulding
Construction ($1,180,859.). Following the bid opening, the low bidder Hemmer
Industries discovered a $113,000 mathematical error in the computation and
subsequently withdrew their bid. Mr. Gribler stated that the preliminary cost
estimate for the project was approximately $694,000 and the bids were
considerably higher than that estimate. Therefore, he recommended the city
reject all bids received and the project should be rebid and emphasized that
the design would not be affected. He also suggested that the funding for the
project be reviewed, possibly to include the construction of the amphitheater.
He felt that making use of the utility companies and subcontractors while they
are on the site would be beneficial for both projects.
5.   Mr. Ellison asked if the prevailing wage law affected the project. Mr.
Gribler replied yes. Mr. Gribler added that compliance issues are a substantial
burden.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to reject all bids received for the
construction of the Senior Center and rebid the project. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
7.   Brenda Chasteen, 1281 Victory Lane addressed council about two issues.
First, she reminded council about the ongoing struggle to get Finke Homes to
comply with their verbal agreement to maintain the area surrounding the
entrance to the Independence Pointe Subdivision. She stated that this entrance
area was well maintained during the construction of the subdivision but now
that Finke Homes has finished building they are inconsistent with the mowing.
She stated that several homeowners have taken on the task of keeping the area
mowed. Mr. Tom Brinker, 1192 Constitution Drive concurred that Finke Homes had
made a verbal agreement with Gary Scott, (former City Administrator) months ago
to mow every two weeks. Mr. Brinker stated that now Finke is saying they will
mow every thirty days but that they only do it when prompted. Mr. Brinker and
Ms. Chasteen asked council to mediate this matter between the property owners
of Independence Pointe Subdivision and Finke Homes.
8.   Mr. Dupps asked Kevin Barbian the status of this zoning violation. Mr.
Barbian stated he left a message with Finke and was assured that the area would
be mowed. Mr. Feldhaus asked if the zoning ordinance specified a height for
grass and weeds. Mr. Barbian stated that there are no specifics cited in the
ordinance. Mr. Dupps suggested researching the zoning ordinance to make
possible amendments by adding height limit for unsightly grass/weeds. Mr.
Feldhaus explained the process the city has to take when citing a zoning
violation. Mr. Ellison suggested withholding building permits in other Finke
subdivisions until they come into compliance with this zoning violation at
Independence Pointe. Mr. Walker cautioned against this. Mr. Ellison then
suggested the city mow the area and file a lien on the property. Mr. Feldhaus
suggested filing a suit against Finke Homes for violation of deed restrictions.
Mr. Walker advised they could file a public nuisance action backed up with
restriction violation but cautioned that it is a slow process. Mr. Walker
suggested that the city take aggressive action to enforce the zoning ordinance.
Mr. Brinker wanted to see the city hold the builders responsible for their
actions and suggested a written agreement with Finke Homes be obtained. Mrs.
Yeager asked Mr. Barbian to actively pursue this zoning violation until Finke
Homes comes into compliance.
9.   The other matter Brenda Chasteen presented to council was the storm sewer
that is causing erosion on her property (1281 Victory Lane). She stated she had
spoken to Mayor Kriege and Gary Scott regarding this issue. This erosion is
also occurring on her neighbor’s property. Jeff Smith, Public Works crew leader
stated that the city will begin work on that next week. The work has been
contracted out to Lucas Sanitation.
10.   Betty Eichelberger, 6258 Taylor Mill Road spoke to council regarding the
barking dogs in her neighborhood. She has a neighbor that has several dogs that
bark all night long. She reported that she has called the police on several
occasions and the dog warden has cited the dog owner. She asked council for a
solution to this matter. Police Chief, Shawn Butler suggested taking the dog
owner to district court and offered to meet with Ms. Eichelberger to discuss
this matter.
Discussion of the Proposed 2000 Tax Rate for Real & Personal Property
11.   Mr. Feldhaus stated that prior to this meeting a Public Hearing was held
to discuss adopting a real property tax rate of .158 per $100.00 of assessed
value. He stated that rate was the compensating rate plus four percent. He
expressed reservations about adopting this rate as the compensating rate of
.152 would generate $60,000 additional revenue and did not feel the city needed
to take the four- percent.
12.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read a new ordinance to adopt the
compensating rate of .152/$100.00 assessed value; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Mr.
Dupps expressed concern that the city would not be able to meet the budgeted
expenditures, especially for the park and police facilities. He was also
concerned that this lower rate will cause the city to once again pull from the
reserve fund just to meet the budgeted expenses. Mrs. Gabbard stated that she
felt the city needed to tighten the expenditures and suggested reviewing the
budget. Mrs. Yeager reminded council that the city police department is
occupying rental space in the courthouse because the city is unable to provide
this department with it’s own facility. Mr. Dupps suggested adopting a rate mid
way between .152 to .158. Mr. Steffen suggested adopting the compensating rate
plus two percent. Mr. Feldhaus stated that that could increase a property
owner’s tax if the property was reassessed by PVA this year. Mr. Walker advised
that a first reading was taken on the .158/$100 rate at the last meeting and a
new rate would require two readings or could be enacted by emergency. Roll call
vote resulted in a tie; three yes votes by Mr. Feldhaus, Mr. Ellison and Mrs.
Gabbard and three no votes cast by Mr. Dupps, Mr. Steffen and Mrs. Yeager.
13.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt the compensating rate plus two percent
for a rate of .155/$100 of assessed value for the 2000 real estate taxes. Mr.
Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call vote resulted in a tie; those voting in
favor were Mr. Steffen, Mr. Dupps and Mrs. Yeager and those opposed were Mr.
Feldhaus, Mrs. Gabbard and Mr. Ellison.
14.   A brief discussion followed. Council discussed three different tax rates
and the revenue that would be generated from each rate. Mrs. Gabbard commented
that she was opposed to raising the tax rate but acknowledged that a rate of
.155/$100 would be a good compromise, as it would generate enough revenue to
fund the needed projects. She reiterated that she felt the city could still
find ways to cut some expenses, too.
15.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to reconsider adopting the .155/$100 real
property tax rate for 2000. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call vote was
answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and Mr.
Ellison. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
16.   Amy Guenther, Finance Director, advised council that if the real property
rate was changed from the originally proposed .158/$100 then the personal
property rate would also have to be changed. Council discussed this briefly and
arrived at a rate of .181/$100 for personal property taxes.
Adopting the Real and Personal Property Tax Rates for 2000 – Ordinance No.
2000-O-15
17.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading of proposed Ordinance No.
2000-O-15 adopting a real property tax rate of .155/$100 of assessed value and
.181/$100 of assessed value for personal property for the year 2000. Mr.
Steffen seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and two
no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Ellison. Motion carried 4-2 in favor and
Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
18.   Mr. Walker advised council that in order to forgo a second reading of
this ordinance they would need to declare an emergency exists to enact this
immediately. Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to declare Ordinance No. 2000-O-15 an
emergency; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call was answered with five yes votes
and one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
19.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to enact by emergency Ordinance No. 2000-O-15
adopting the real property tax rate for 2000 at .155/$100 and the personal
property tax rate for 2000 at .181/$100. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll
call vote was answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr.
Feldhaus and Mr. Ellison. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance No. 2000-O-16 – Adopting 2000 Trash Assessment Rate
20.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a second reading of proposed Ordinance
No. 2000-O-16 adopting the trash assessment rate for 2000 at $89.40. Mrs.
Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with six yes votes.
Motion carried 6-0 in favor and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
21.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-16 as read;
seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call vote was answered with six yes votes. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Resolution No. 2000-R-14 Authorizing CDBG Monthly Payment for Senior
Center Expenses
22.   Mr. Bryan Kirby, Grant Administrator for the Senior Center, addressed
council regarding the current expenses due for the Senior Center. The payment
is due to the architects, Moody/Nolan in the amount of $16,694.27. Mr. Kirby
reported that this amounts to 58% of the design services to date and that the
architect fees are to be paid from the city funds.
23.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to read Resolution No. 2000-R-14 approving the
payment of $16,694.27 to Moody/Nolan for architect services for the Senior
Center. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with all
ayes; motion carried 6-0 in favor and Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2000-R-14.
24.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-14 as read;
seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Resolution 2000-R-15 – Authorizing Transfer of Property at the corner
of Madison Pike and Sylvan Drive to the Transportation Cabinet
25.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to read Resolution No. 2000-R-15 authorizing
Mayor Kriege to sign the necessary documents transferring parcel #354 located
on State Route 17 to the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for
the purpose of widening the road. Mr. Feldhaus seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor and Mr. Walker read the
proposed resolution.
26.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-15; seconded by
Mr. Ellison. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance to Prohibit Weekday Parking on Alvin Drive between 7 AM and
3 PM
27.   Police Chief, Shawn Butler addressed council regarding the proposed
ordinance to prohibit parking on Alvin Drive between the hours of 7 a.m. and 3
p.m. during the weekdays. He reported that Alvin Drive is a very narrow street
and the overflow parking from nearby Simon Kenton High School has become a
hazard as it would be nearly impossible for emergency vehicles to access the
nine homes on the street. Currently the vehicles parking there during school
hours are parked legally. He stated that they have requested the school to ask
students not to park on Alvin Drive but the students are not complying. Mr.
Ellison asked if a parking limit of two hours would solve the problem. Chief
Butler replied that he doesn’t have the manpower that would be needed to time
the parking, mark the street with chalk, etc. Mr. Feldhaus stated he would
prefer to set a time limit rather than prohibit parking altogether. Mr. Ellison
stated that he felt the residents should be able to park on the street. Chief
Butler informed council that the police department has been working with the
residents on Alvin Drive to arrive at a solution that would favor the
residents. He stated he has spoken to the majority of the residents on the
street and they were not opposed to the ban on parking during the designated
hours.
28.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading in summary of the
proposed ordinance to prohibit parking on Alvin Drive between the hours of 7
a.m. and 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor. Mr. Walker read
the proposed ordinance.
29.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to declare that an emergency exists on Alvin
Drive because public safety is a concern and to waive the second reading of the
ordinance at the next regularly scheduled council meeting. Mr. Feldhaus
seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0 in favor.
30.   Mr. Steffen moved and Mr. Feldhaus seconded to enact by emergency
Ordinance No. 2000-O-17 that would prohibit parking on Alvin Drive, between the
hours of 7 a.m. and 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. Roll call vote was answered
with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
New Business – Proposed Amendment to Ordinance No. 2000-O-08
31.   Council Member, Jim Ellison introduced a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2000-O-08 that adopted the current fiscal year budget. He
stated that would like the budget, which was adopted in summary to be changed
to show line item expenditures. He stated that he feels there will be more
accountability using a line item budget.
32.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend budget Ordinance No. 2000-O-08; seconded by Mrs. Gabbard. A
brief discussion ensued. Mr. Dupps stated he was unclear as to why this change
was needed. Mr. Ellison stated that with a line item budget in place that funds
could not be spent prior to council approval. Finance Director, Amy Guenther
advised that she spoke to the Department of Local Government and they advised
that the budget ordinance should not be too detailed as to halt the daily
operations of the city. She advised that it would be difficult to adhere to a
line item budget, as there are currently five line items that have exceeded the
budgeted amount. Ms. Guenther also cautioned that the ordinance might have to
be amended on a monthly basis if council decides to make this change in the
budget. She recommended staying with a summary budget and offered to provide
council with a more detailed financial report each month. Mr. Walker advised
that if council chooses to adopt the budget by line item then the daily
government operations could be restricted. He also reminded council that every
time a line item is changed throughout the year, then the ordinance has to be
amended, causing two readings and publication that would become quite costly.
Mr. Ellison reiterated that there needs to be more accountability and with the
City Administrator position vacant that council needs to be aware of all
spending. At this time roll call vote was taken and answered with three yes
votes cast by Mr. Ellison, Mr. Feldhaus and Mrs. Gabbard; and three no votes
cast by Mr. Dupps, Mr. Steffen and Mrs. Yeager. The motion resulted in a tie
vote 3-3. Mr. Walker explained that since there is no way to break the tie vote
the motion is declared lost.
Recess
33.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to take a brief recess; seconded by Mr.
Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes.
34.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mr.
Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes. The meeting resumed.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
35.   Mr. Barbian advised council that the approval of the Stage II plans for
Bristow Meadows by Long and Kiser Development is before them tonight. He stated
that the biggest issue has been the drainage calculator. Mr. Feldhaus asked if
the plans had been updated. Mr. Barbian replied the plans had not been updated
but would before the plat is recorded. He reported there are no major
modifications. Mrs. Gabbard stated she was not at the meeting when Stage I was
approved by council and expressed concern about supporting the Stage II plan
because of that. Mr. Walker advised her that she was within her right to vote
on this matter. Mr. Ellison asked Mr. Barbian if additional houses are included
in Stage II. Mr. Barbian acknowledged that there are four additional structures
and this Stage II will approve the addition. Mr. Ellison asked if this meets
regulations and Mr. Barbian confirmed that it did.
36.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve Stage II of the Long and Kiser
development known as Bristow Meadows; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Roll call was
answered with four yes votes, one no vote cast by Mr. Steffen and one abstain
by Mrs. Gabbard for the reasons stated above. Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
37.   Mr. Barbian reported that he met with Russell Cloyd and Diane Collins
from the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission and took them on a 2-1/
2 hour tour of the city. He stated he would meet with them again to transfer
the active files to them when they take over the zoning administration.
38.   Mr. Barbian advised that the next Planning & Zoning Committee meeting has
been scheduled for Tuesday, September 19, 2000 at 6:30 p.m. at the city
administration building.
39.   Mr. Feldhaus stated concern regarding a business that is operating out of
a mobile home on Mount Zion Road near the Boone/Kenton county border. Mr.
Barbian reported that several months ago he issued a permit for a large barn on
that property. He stated that later it was brought to his attention that a
business had taken up residence there and he informed the owner that he needed
to make application for a home occupation permit. The owner has never returned
the completed application so he recently sent a notice informing the business
to cease operations. Mr. Feldhaus informed Mr. Walker that this business has
installed front and rear gravel parking lots, stores heavy construction
equipment and a large dumpster and conducts business from 6 a.m. until 6-7 p.m.
Mr. Feldhaus stated this type of business is clearly not permitted in this
residential zone and asked Mr. Walker what action the city could take. Mr.
Walker suggested giving the violator a time frame (as defined by the ordinance)
to cease operations and if he refuses then advised taking the violator to
district court.
40.   Mr. Dupps addressed the letter in the council packets from a resident on
Wooddale Court citing numerous zoning violations at 5087 Wooddale. Mr. Barbian
stated he did not receive a copy of the letter but would check into the matter.
Mr. Feldhaus questioned the status of the zoning violator on Cox Road. Mr.
Barbian reported the violator has found another location for the cars and is
gradually moving them and asked for a thirty-day extension. Mr. Feldhaus, Mrs.
Yeager and Mr. Ellison concurred that the violator has been given ample time
and did not wish to grant an extension. Mr. Barbian stated he would send
written notification for the violator to speed up the process.
41.   Mr. Feldhaus stated he has received a call from a resident that is
concerned about the proposed subdivision development on Cody Road. He stated
the concern is that Cody Road is not wide enough to handle the increase
traffic. Dan Briggs (Cardinal Engineering) informed council that a committee
consisting of himself, Mayor Kriege, Judge-Executive Murgatroyd, the developer
and other city and county officials. He stated this group has been discussing
the safety concerns of that area and looking at viable options. Mr. Briggs
advised that there are several loose ends at this time and that no timetable
has been set.
42.   Mr. Feldhaus asked the city clerk if the owner of the Cherokee Bowl
property has been relieved of all delinquent taxes. The city clerk replied yes.
Mr. Feldhaus was concerned as he noticed the property was up for sale. Mr.
Barbian advised the advertisement in the paper was incorrect as the property
has space for lease.
Public Works – Jeff Smith
43.   Mr. Smith reported that the concrete roadwork was completed by JPS and
advised they did a first class job. The work will be finished as soon as the
curbs are filled in, seeded and strawed
Recreation – Nita Brake
44.   Ms. Brake submitted the monthly report in the council packets and advised
that the Phase II playground equipment has been installed at Memorial Park.
45.   Ms. Brake advised that $20,000 has been budgeted or the construction of
pitching mounds on the ball fields at Staggs Park and that she had solicited
estimates for the job. She submitted a report of the two bids she received.
Team All Sport bid $13,804.00 for both ball fields and Lee Meeks bid $16,519.00
for both fields. Ms. Brake advised Team all Sports would be awarded the job as
they received excellent endorsements from the references supplied to the city,
as well as they came in with the lowest bid.
46.   Ms. Brake reminded council the city would host the Senior Citizens Picnic
on Tuesday, September 19th at Staggs Park at noon.
Police Department – Shawn Butler
47.   Chief Butler reported that Simon Kenton High School’s Homecoming Parade
would be held on Friday, September 15th at 6:00 p.m. He advised that Madison
Pike would be closed during the parade. He also reported the bike safety
program would be held on September 12th in the Beechgrove area.
48.   Mrs. Gabbard stated the Public Safety Committee has discussed the city
providing a resource officer in the high school. Chief Butler advised he has
received word that the city may be receiving funding for this expense.
COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
49.   No meeting to report.
Building Committee
50.   This committee has been meeting with architects, Moody/Nolan Ltd.
regarding the current design and plans for the Senior Center and future
facilities for an amphitheater, and other buildings for police, administration,
etc.
Personnel Committee
51.   No meeting to report.
Planning & Zoning Committee
52.   Kevin Barbian reported the committee was discussing a possible text
amendment that would restrict accessory structures in front/side yards.
Public Safety Committee
53.   The next meeting is scheduled for September 19, 2000 at 5:30 p.m. at the
offices of the Police Department.
Public Works Committee
54.   This committee’s next regular scheduled meeting is October 11, 2000.
Executive Order – Appointing Board of Directors of the Independence Senior
Center
55.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Executive Order No. 2000-EO-08
appointing the Board of Directors of the Independence Senior Citizens Center,
Inc. which include four year terms for Rodney (Biz) Cain, Donna Yeager, Kurt
Keeney, Ed Currin and two year terms for Phil Turner, Randall Wagner and Chris
Grubbs. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with six yes
votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance to Adopt a Text Amendment to Abolish R-1E zones and
Establish NSC Zone
56.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a first reading of a proposed ordinance
to adopt a text amendment to the zoning ordinance that would abolish R-1E zones
and establish day cares in the NSC zone. Motion seconded by Mr. Feldhaus. Roll
call was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Discussion and Adoption of the Special Council Meeting Minutes of August 28,
2000
57.   Mr. Feldhaus expressed concern over paragraphs 8-15 of the August 28,
2000 Special Council meeting minutes. He asked Mr. Walker’s advice and wondered
if the recorded statements from a member of the audience were appropriate, in
light of the fact that it was a special meeting and may have deviated from the
agenda. Mr. Walker stated that since he was not present at that meeting he
would review the video tape and give his opinion, if that is what council
desired. But he advised that by approving the minutes council was asserting
that the clerk has accurately recorded the action taken at the meeting, and not
stating that what happened at the meeting was legal.
58.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to replace paragraph eight and in it’s place
attach the verbatim statement made by Mayor Kriege to the minutes of the August
28th meeting as part of the official record. Mr. Feldhaus seconded the motion.
Roll call vote was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
59.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the Special Council
meeting of August 28, 2000 as amended. Mr. Feldhaus seconded the motion. Roll
call vote was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
60.   At this time Mr. Ellison read a prepared statement responding to
allegations made by a resident at the special council meeting on August 28th.
The verbatim statement is attached as part of the official recorded minutes of
this meeting.
Adjournment
61.   Upon motion and second by Mr. Feldhaus and Mrs. Gabbard the meeting was
adjourned at 9:45 p.m. Motion carried with all ayes.
______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
OCTOBER 2, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison, Barbara
Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in attendance
was attorney, Jeff E. Smith, who was sitting in for City Attorney, H. Lawson
Walker who was unable to attend this meeting.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 11, 2000 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the September 11, 2000
council meeting, as amended. Mr. Feldhaus seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Addition to the Agenda
3.   Mrs. Gabbard requested to be added to the agenda under old business, as
she said that she had a statement that she would like to read aloud.
Presentation of 1999/2000 Audit by Linda Chapman of Rankin, Rankin & Co.
4.   Linda Chapman of Rankin, Rankin & Company reviewed the audit report with
council. She stated the records are in good shape and that no irregularities
were found. Ms. Chapman stated that the city’s total assets are 10M with a
twenty-one percent increase from the investments. She reported the total
revenue received increased by $460,000 from last year but that expenses were
high due to refinancing of the sewer debt fund account. She also noted that
there are timing issues that occur at the end of the fiscal year such as
encumbrances and prepays. So that while it appears the city was ahead in
anticipated revenue, other foreseen expenses were carried over.
5.   Mr. Feldhaus referred to page twenty-one regarding internal controls. Ms.
Chapman stated that it is recommended the city prepare a fixed asset register
and continue to maintain that register throughout the years by adding and
deleting major effects. She stated that this is a necessary and useful tool for
insurance purposes. She advised taking a good inventory of all city owned
assets and establishing a fixed dollar amount for each item in order to
maintain internal control. Ms. Chapman informed council that by July 2003 this
internal control plan will be required to meet GASB standards and that is why
she suggests we begin this process now. She stated that the list of fixed
assets should also include city streets, bridges, etc.
PRIVILIDGES OF THE FLOOR
6.   Mr. Ike Gabbard read a prepared statement referring to the Special Council
Meeting of August 28, 2000 wherein Mayor Kriege read a prepared statement and
resident, Jim Kudera, cast disparaging remarks at him and some members of
council. Mr. Gabbard’s statement included his opinion on the way Mayor Kriege
should have handled the termination of the city administrator, advising Mayor
Kriege on executive and legislative duties, and criticizing Mayor Kriege for
allowing Mr. Kudera to speak at the meeting. Mr. Gabbard responded to quotes
from Mr. Kudera’s statement, which he termed as personal and malicious attacks
on him and members of council.
Proposed Ordinance –Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Nursery Schools – Second
Reading
7.   City Attorney, Jeff Smith read the proposed ordinance. Mr. Feldhaus made a
motion to accept the second reading of the ordinance, seconded by Mr. Ellison.
During a brief discussion, Mr. Steffen pointed out that the wording in Section
I was incorrect. Mr. Feldhaus and Mr. Ellison withdrew their motion and second.
After the wording in Section I was amended, Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adopt
Ordinance No. 2000-O-18; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call was answered with six
yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Statement by Council Member, Barb Gabbard
8.   Mrs. Gabbard read a prepared statement commenting on Mayor Kriege’s
statement and the allegations made by Jim Kudera at the August 28, 2000
meeting. She publicly denied the false accusations and requested a public
apology from Mayor Kriege and Jim Kudera. She stated she felt subjected to
verbal abuse while trying to serve the citizens of this city. Mrs. Gabbard
expressed her disapproval regarding the process used to select a new city
administrator and stated that she objected to the salary and perks that Mayor
Kriege was willing to give to the selected candidate. In closing, Mrs. Gabbard
chided Mayor Kriege for not presenting a candidate for the position to council
for a public vote.
NEW BUSINESS
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 2000/01 Fiscal Year Budget – First Reading
9.   Mrs. Amy Guenther, Finance Director, submitted a proposed ordinance to
amend the current budget. She stated there have been some changes in the
projected revenue and expenditures that made it necessary to amend the budget
at this time. Mr. Feldhaus suggested waiting until May 2001 to make this
amendment. Mrs. Guenther advised that these changes were too significant to
carry most of the fiscal year. Linda Chapman, Auditor for Rankin, Rankin and
Company, commented that most cities wait until May but to comply with K.R.S.,
funds have to be budgeted before you can expend them. Mrs. Guenther stated that
to receive the state funds for the amphitheater for Memorial Park the budget
has to be amended to reflect that revenue. Mr. Feldhaus commented that it seems
like a waste of funds to publish an amended budget ordinance more than once
during the year.
10.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend budget Ordinance No. 2000-O-08. Mrs. Yeager seconded the
motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Steffen suggested this would be a good
time to change the format of the budget to a ‘line item’ budget instead of the
current summary format. Mrs. Gabbard and Mr. Ellison agreed with this
suggestion. Mr. Ellison felt a line item budget would assist them in tracking
all expenditures making it easier to follow. Mrs. Gabbard stated that in light
of the fact that the city was currently without a City Administrator that it
would be best to convert to a ‘line item’ budget. Mr. Dupps disagreed by
stating that he did not see how a ‘line item’ budget was going to change the
process by which city business was conducted. Mr. Feldhaus asked Mrs. Guenther
how the budget would be prepared. Mrs. Guenther assured council that although
the budget is adopted using a summary format she will to provide a ‘line item’
detail report each month for their review. Mr. Feldhaus questioned the
publication expense of a ‘line item’ budget. Mr. Jeff Smith (attorney) advised
that the publication costs could be extremely expensive if the ‘line items’
were changed several times during the fiscal year. Mrs. Yeager commented that
she preferred to adopt the amended budget by summary. Mr. Steffen made a motion
to amend Mr. Feldhaus’s motion to include ‘the incorporation of a ‘line item’
budget.’ Mrs. Gabbard seconded Mr. Steffen’s motion. At this time, Mrs. Yeager
withdrew her second to Mr. Feldhaus’s motion for a first reading of the
proposed ordinance to amend the budget. Mr. Feldhaus stated he would like to
have time to review the ‘line item’ report that Mrs. Guenther provided. After
some thought Mr. Feldhaus placed his original motion on the floor to have a
first reading (in summary) of the proposed ordinance to amend the 2000/01
budget as presented. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Motion carried with all
ayes and Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance to Establish Primary Elections – 1st Reading
11.   Mr. Steffen re-introduced a proposed ordinance that would amend the
election procedure and the nomination of candidates to city office to be
effective no later than the 2002 city election. He urged council to support
this establishment of a primary election, which is a requirement of third class
cities
12.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Smith
read the proposed ordinance.
NEW BUSINESS
Appointment to the Board of Adjustments
13.   Mr. Ellison made a recommendation to Mayor Kriege for an appointment to
the Board of Adjustments to fill the vacancy that currently exists. Mr. Ellison
voiced his concern that if the city did not make its’ own appointment within
sixty days that the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission could exert
their authority to make the appointment for the city. He asked Mayor Kriege to
appoint Mr. William E. Miller of 4394 Oliver Road. Mayor Kriege thanked Mr.
Miller for coming forward to fill this vacancy on the Board.
14.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to read Executive Order No. 2000-EO-09
appointing Mr. William E. Miller to the Board of Adjustments. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with six yes votes with Mrs.
Gabbard stating that she was voting but felt it was not necessary to endorse
Mayor Kriege’s appointment. Motion carried.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Engineer – Dave Whitacre
15.   Mr. Whitacre reported that the contracted street repair projects are
completed. Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. Whitacre about repairing Holten Drive and
commented that past estimates have been as high as one million. Mr. Whitacre
suggested repairing sections of Holten Drive over a period of time. He stated
this would make the cost more manageable as well as easing traffic flow. Mr.
Whitacre advised the road was not originally constructed to support the weight
of the semi-tractors that use that road on a daily basis.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
16.   Mr. Barbian reported that he has transferred the zoning violation files
over to the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission, who the city has
recently contracted with to enforce the zoning laws. He stated he would
continue to work with Finke Homes to obtain from them a signed agreement to
maintain the hillside entrance into the Independence Pointe Subdivision.
17.   Mr. Barbian also reported the zoning violation at the corner of Cox and
Taylor Mill Roads should be in compliance within the next couple of weeks. He
stated the owner of the business has promised to remove all the cars within the
next fifteen days. Mr. Feldhaus requested he pursue this violation with all the
necessary paperwork if the violator is not out within that period. Mayor Kriege
asked Mr. Barbian if the violator was given a deadline. Mr. Barbian stated he
had not set a deadline but that the violator has been cooperative and he was
confident that he would comply with the order. Mayor Kriege requested that Mr.
Barbian give the violator a deadline. Mr. Feldhaus suggested that next weekend
should be ample time for him to move the cars.
18.   Mr. Feldhaus requested a status report on the property on Mt. Zion Road
that is operating a business out of a residence. Mr. Barbian stated that the
Planning Commission would be taking over the follow-up of that zoning violation
and they would make it a high priority. He stated the city may have to take
this violator to court. Mr. Barbian informed Mr. Feldhaus that Diane Collins
and Russell Cloyd at the Planning Commission would be handling this violation.
19.   Mrs. Yeager asked the status of the maintenance of the property at the
entrance to Independence Pointe Subdivision by Finke Homes. Mr. Barbian stated
he is still in discussions with Finke Homes. Mrs. Gabbard suggested the city
heed Mr. Walker’s advice to take them to court if they do not comply with the
zoning ordinance to maintain their property. Mr. Barbian stated that would be
considered if Finke Homes does not a sign a contract with the city to maintain
the property on a mutually agreeable schedule.
20.   Mr. Barbian reported that McDonald’s restaurant has begun construction at
the Independence Towne Center. He is not aware of the projected completion
date.
21.   Mr. Feldhaus asked if the streets in the Towne Center are city streets or
privately owned. Mr. Barbian advised the streets are city maintained. Mr.
Feldhaus was interested to know if the properties near the Towne Center that
were currently without public sewers would be able to tap into the lines
installed by the builders in the Towne Center. Mr. Whitacre of Cardinal
Engineering stated that this would be possible if the Sanitation District owned
the manholes installed.
22.   Mr. Barbian advised a Planning and Zoning Committee meeting has been
scheduled for October 17, 2000 at 6:30 p.m. at the City Administration
Building.
23.   Mr. Ellison pointed out there are several junk cars that are parked
across from the courthouse on McCullum Road and requested the owner of the
property be cited for storing these vehicles.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
24.   Mr. Smith reported that emergency repairs were made on Beechgrove Drive
near the Somerset Pond Apartments. He stated that a section of the roadway
upheaved and Quast Paving was called in to make the necessary repairs. Mr.
Smith stated the cost was $5,500 for 120 tons of asphalt that he felt sure
would sustain the winter months.
25.   Mr. Smith advised council that a Public Works Committee meeting has been
scheduled for October 11, 2000.
26.   Mr. Feldhaus requested Mr. Smith to re-adjust the light that shines on
the Sterling Staggs park sign. Mr. Steffen asked if the sewer repair work had
begun on Victory Lane. Mr. Smith advised the work was complete and that he has
not received any complaints.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
27.   Mrs. Brake reported the Senior Citizen Picnic as attended by 140 seniors.
She thanked council members Jim Ellison and Steve Feldhaus for acting as chefs
for this event.
28.   Mrs. Brake reported that negotiations continue with Drees regarding the
park development plans for the green area that would be donated to the city in
the Lakefield Subdivision. Mrs. Gabbard asked if Drees has agreed to reclaim
the lake area or was that an issue in the negotiations. Mrs. Brake stated they
have agreed to take back the lake area. Mr. Ellison asked Mr. Smith to inspect
the sidewalks for ADA compliance.
29.   Mrs. Brake reported that she has completed the required one hundred
service hours and attained her Master Gardner certification. She stated that in
order to maintain the designation she will need to complete twenty-one service
hours every year.
Renaissance Designation
30.   Mrs. Brake reported that the City of Independence was awarded the
designation of Renaissance City and received the bronze status, which is the
entry level for this program. This award was presented to the city on September
29, 2000 at the annual Kentucky League of Cities Convention held in Louisville.
She stated she would begin work on the silver status, which is the next level.
Mayor Kriege thanked Mrs. Brake for her efforts.
Police Department – Shawn Butler
31.   Chief Butler reported the citation, arrests and service call statistics
for the month of September. He also commented on the various active programs
the department has established. These programs include Bike Identification and
the Citizens Police Academy, which was met with great enthusiasm. He stated the
next Citizens Police Academy would begin in the spring of 2001. He also
reported they have been sending surveys, at random, to those who have been
serviced by the department in order to get some feedback.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
32.   Mayor Kriege reported that the committee met with Fifth Third Bank
representatives to review the current investments and they will do this on a
quarterly basis. He also advised the committee will schedule a date to review
the financial statements.
Building Committee
33.   Mayor Kriege reported that the committee has discussed the next step to
take regarding the bidding of the Senior Center. He stated the original
construction bids came in at double the estimated cost. The committee is
looking at several options, which include holding off on some expenses and
possibly looking for a construction manager to oversee sub-contractors. Mrs.
Yeager stated they would also save money by doing the landscaping instead of
contracting this out.
Personnel & Administration Committee
34.   No meeting.
Planning & Zoning Committee
35.   No report.
Public Safety Committee
36.   Mr. Dupps reported the committee has been discussing the funding of a
Resource Officer for Simon Kenton High School.
Public Works Committee
37.   A quarterly meeting for this committee is scheduled for October 11, 2000.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
38.   Mayor Kriege shared his comments regarding the city receiving the
designation of Renaissance City. He stated that receiving the bronze level is
just the first step and felt the city was heading in the right direction.
39.   He also reported the Kentucky League of Cities Convention was well
attended and the workshops provided were good training sessions.
Miscellaneous
40.   Mr. Feldhaus announced there would be a Town Meeting held on October 30,
2000 at Summit View Middle School Community Room at 6:45 p.m. to discuss the
2000 Area Wide Comprehensive Update. He urged the public to attend the meeting,
which is sponsored by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission. Mr.
Ellison stated the meeting is open to the public.
Resolution 2000-R-16
41.   City Attorney, Jeff Smith presented a resolution to council that would
authorize Mayor Kriege to sign a Memorandum of Understanding and other related
documents enabling the Department for Local Government to begin the process to
release funds to the city for the Memorial Park amphitheater. Governor Patton’s
budget allocated $200,000 to the City of Independence for the construction of
this amphitheater.
42.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to read Resolution 2000-R-16 authorizing the
mayor to enter this agreement; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call was answered
with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Executive Session
43.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Steffen council entered into
an executive session according to K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending
litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
44.   Upon motion by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mr. Dupps council resumed the
regular council meeting. Motion carried with all ayes.
Lawsuit – Kearns vs. the City of Independence
45.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to authorize the city attorney to enter
negotiations to settle the lawsuit of Kearns vs. the City. Mr. Steffen seconded
the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
46.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Motion
carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 9:17 p.m.
________________________________________
                  Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 6, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from the Independence Christian Church
gave the invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison,
Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in
attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
Proclamation Presented to Eagle Scout, Trevor Moser
2.   Mayor Kriege presented a proclamation to Independence resident, Trevor
Moser for his achievement on attaining the rank of Eagle Scout.
Approval of the Minutes of the October 2, 2000 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to approve the minutes of the October 2, 2000
council meeting, as amended. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Bob Exeler – Water Lines on Fowler Creek Road
4.   Mr. Bob Exeler of 5296 Fowler Creek Road presented council with a petition
signed by eighteen residents of Fowler Creek Road requesting that public water
lines be installed in that area. Mr. Exeler stated that he has been researching
the possibility of obtaining a grant from the state to help defray the cost of
installing water lines. He stated he has been in contact with Richard Harrison
of the Northern Kentucky Water District and Sally P. Davis who is Governor
Patton’s Northern Kentucky liaison and reported that both offered their
support. Mayor Kriege stated he spoke to Mr. Harrison who encouraged him to
apply for this CBDG grant, as it will take time to obtain it. Mrs. Yeager asked
if the grant was for the entire cost or if the city would need to match the
grant amount. Mayor Kriege replied that it would be a matching grant. Mr.
Exeler voiced objections to the city’s recent discussions to install sidewalks
and construct an amphitheater when there are so many areas of the city that do
not have access to public water lines. Mrs. Yeager advised Mr. Exeler that the
funds for the amphitheater were obtained by private donations and allocated
state dollars from the Governor’s budget.
5.   Mr. Exeler requested the city make application for a grant to install the
water lines in the Fowler Creek Road area. Mrs. Gabbard voiced reluctance to
vote on this matter when the city does not know what the matching cost of the
grant would be for the city. Mr. Feldhaus pointed that the estimated
construction cost was $274,000. Mayor Kriege stated that the Water District
would provide the design for no charge. There was a brief discussion about the
cost to the residents and how this project would be assessed to each property
owner. Mr. Exeler stated that the more pocket areas serviced the more
economical the project would be for each owner. He informed council that the
Water District is only able to apply for a limited number of grants so he urged
council to apply for this grant for the residents. Mayor Kriege asked that
council consider making a commitment to move forward with the necessary
paperwork by applying for the grant. He advised that if the grant is awarded to
the city, that it would then need further approval from council to offer the
matching funds. He advised that Mr. Harrison would assist with the grant
application process.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus made a motion to proceed with the necessary paperwork to
apply for a grant to construct water lines in the Fowler Creek Road area. Mr.
Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0 in favor.
Charles Deters – Courthouse Restaurant at the Independence Towne Center
7.   Mr. Deters addressed council on behalf of Nathan Deters who was unable to
attend the meeting. Mr. Deters presented to council a proposed change of
location from the original site plan of the Independence Towne Center for the
Courthouse Restaurant. He explained this would be a sit-down type of
restaurant. Mr. Deters told council that too much parking space was allocated
on the original site plan for the Towne Center and that the proposed new
location for the restaurant is on a parcel that was initially designated for
parking.
8.   Mr. Russell Cloyd of the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission
advised council that this proposed change is back before council to decide
whether this is a minor or major change to the original site plan. A lengthy
discussion ensued regarding criteria used to decide what constitutes a minor or
major change. Mr. Cloyd stated that NKAPC could approve this site change if
council considers this a minor change.
9.   Mr. Feldhaus commented that he feels this change in location would be a
major change to the site plan. He added that he would consider changes in
landscaping, parking spaces, etc to be minor changes, but not moving from one
location to another.
10.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Cloyd for his expert opinion. Mr. Cloyd stated,
that although the proposed restaurant is smaller than the sum of the two
outlots on the original site plan, the consensus opinion of the Planning
Commission staff is that this is a major change, as no building was planned for
the new site. Mr. Cloyd went on to say that they felt that council should make
the final determination.
11.   Mrs. Gabbard voiced concerns that the restaurant would require additional
lighting that would intrude upon the surrounding residents in that area. Mr.
Deters stated that this structure would not require additional lighting. He
advised that deflectors have recently been installed on the lights at the BP
Station.
12.   Mr. Feldhaus reiterated that a new building being constructed on a site
where one was not planned constitutes a major change and suggested this request
go through the review process. Mr. Deters stated this process would require the
entire site plan to be amended which would entail a public hearing. He stated
that this would delay the project for three months and they were anxious to get
started before winter sets in.
13.   Mr. Walker stated that he has never been to a council meeting where
council was to decided a major/minor change. Mr. Cloyd commented that due to
the newness of the contract with the city and being unfamiliar with council,
they felt it was best to bring this proposal to the city. Mr. Deters
interjected that this requires an interpretation of the zoning ordinance.
14.   Mr. Ellison stated that since the lot has not been paved there should not
be a problem with water runoff and the Towne Center has ample parking. Mr.
Deters stated there is no better water retention in the county as the overflow
drains into the lake.
15.   Mr. Deters stated the Towne Center has and continues to bring many new
conveniences to the city residents and it is only a third of the way completed.
He urged council to show cooperation so that they can move forward with this
project without a three-month delay.
16.   Mr. Steffen stated this be submitted as a major change. Mrs. Gabbard
expressed concern that the city would be setting precedent if this site
location were ruled as a minor change. Mr. Walker commented that every
development stands on its own merits and that nothing will prevent another
person from asking council to do the same. He advised that the Rich McAllister
and Mr. Cloyd of the Planning Commission, as the contracted Zoning
Administrator for the city, is seeking guidance in this matter, just as an
employee of this city would do.
17.   Mayor Kriege asked council if they would prefer to leave this decision to
the Planning Commission. Mrs. Yeager replied she did not want to see Mr.
Deters’ project delayed for three months. Mr. Cloyd stated that the city’s
zoning ordinance is vague and that he could argue for and against this request.
But he advised they would research the matter further and handle
administratively if that is what council desires.
18.   Mr. Feldhaus requested a special meeting be scheduled to decide this
matter after the Planning Commission has done their research. Mr. Ellison
suggested they research K.R.S. and city ordinance criteria. Council concurred
and a special council meeting was scheduled for Wednesday, November 8, 2000 at
5:00 p.m.
Ray Kerl – Independence Soccer Club
19.   Mr. Kerl, 3933 Thomas Drive, introduced himself to council as the
President of the Independence Soccer Club. He addressed council regarding two
complaints he had regarding the city parks. Mr. Kerl stated that the shelter
building restrooms at Staggs Park are always locked. He asked why this building
was not open so that the public could use the restroom facilities. He stated
that other cities give keys to the Police Department so the shelters can be
open. Nita Brake, Recreation Director, stated the shelter building is locked
because of the vandalism when left open. Police Chief, Shawn Butler, stated he
is trying to work out a schedule with the patrol officers so that the restrooms
can be opened more often.
20.   Mr. Kerl stated the other matter he wanted to speak about concerned the
soccer goals. He informed council that the Independence Recreation Committee
requires the Soccer Club to dismantle and remove the soccer goals by November
5. Mr. Kerl objected to this practice as it is an undue burden on the Soccer
Club and he sees no logical reason to remove the goals for the winter months.
He stated that the county and other cities do no require removal of the goals
during the off season. Nita Brake, Recreation Director, responded to Mr. Kerl’s
grievance by informing council that the Soccer Club agreed to remove the goals
at the July 7th I.R.C. meeting. She stated that this was a compromise with the
residents in the Hartland Subdivision. Ms. Carolyn Fields, 5278 Millcreek
Circle, whose property abuts the Independence Park in Hartland Subdivision,
stated the park is not a soccer field where games are played, just a practice
area for the teams. Mayor Kriege agreed that the park in Hartland was a unique
situation and felt it was necessary to work with the residents. Rita King, 6523
Sugar Camp Drive, stated that until recently the goals were left up year round
at Staggs Parks and she does not see why they have to be removed.
21.   In closing, Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Kerl that the city would make every
attempt to keep the Staggs Park Shelter restrooms open for public use, but
stated the city would not leave them open twenty-four hours a day to be
subjected to vandals. Mr. Ellison stated that council should uphold the
Independence Recreation Committee’s recommendations. In addition, Mr. Dupps
advised Mr. Kerl to plead his case at a future Recreation Committee meeting.
Tom Brinker – Independence Pointe Subdivision front Entrance
22.   Mr. Brinker, 1192 Constitution Drive, presented a review of the year’s
activity regarding the matter of Finke Homes’ repeated non-compliance in
maintaining the land at the entrance of the Independence Pointe Subdivision on
Flagstone Drive off Cody Road. He stated that Finke was in violation 70% of the
time and was not issued a fine once. He stated that he was hopeful that the new
contracted Zoning Administrator would assess fines next year. There was a brief
discussion on how the matter would be handled next year. Mr. Steffen suggested
citing Finke to the Code Enforcement Board. Mayor Kriege stated he had
discussed this matter with the Home Builders Association and was advised the
city could file a grievance with the association against Finke Homes.
Ike Gabbard
23.   Mr. Gabbard, 5140 Madison Pike, address council regarding property on
Richardson Road that is an eyesore. He did not have an address but was advised
to obtain one and Mr. McAllister, Zoning Administrator, would follow up on this
violation.
24.   Mr. Gabbard also had questions regarding the city’s annual financial
statement and shared his comments regarding the transfer of the city sewer
lines to the Sanitation District.
Proposed Ordinance – 2000/01 Budget Amendment – Second Reading
25.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend the 2000/01 budget; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried
with all ayes. Mr. Walker read proposed Ordinance No. 2000-O-19.
26.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-19 as read;
seconded by Mrs. Yeager. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing Primary Elections
27.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to establish primary elections. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. A
brief discussion ensued. Upon further review Mr. Steffen pointed out that the
ordinance was not worded correctly. After making the necessary corrections, Mr.
Steffen withdrew his motion and Mr. Dupps withdrew his second.
28.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to have a first reading, title only, of the
proposed ordinance to establish primary elections. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. No roll all; motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance.
Falcon Ridge Development – Request for City to Assume Maintenance of Storm
Water Retention
29.   Bob Schroder, Falcon Ridge Development, came before council to request
the city assume ownership of the retention system that was constructed by them
in the Falcon Ridge Subdivision.
30.   Council Member, Jim Ellison announced that he would remove himself from
the discussion of this matter as his participation could be construed as a
conflict of interest.
31.   Mr. Schroder explained to council that shortly after the subdivision
began development, several residents complained of the storm water runoff from
the subdivision. He stated that because of these complaints they purchased a
small parcel of adjoining land and obtained an easement for storm water
drainage and retention and installed a storm water system within the land and
easement. The system consists of two ponds, underground pipes and a drainage
easement, which has been inspected and approved by the Planning Commission. Mr.
Schroder stated that he felt it would be appropriate for the city to accept
this land and easement as it benefits several residents.
32.   Mayor Kriege expressed concerns, that with limited Public Works staff and
resources, that the city would have difficulty maintaining this system. Mr.
Feldhaus stated the city does not own and maintain any retention system in the
various subdivisions in the city. Mrs. Gabbard stated that she does not see why
the city would want to take ownership of this type of property. Mr. Schroder
stated the city should maintain this as a public service to the residents. Mr.
Feldhaus inquired as to whether the retention system was in the subdivision and
the condition of the system. Mr. Schroder informed council that the retention
area was not in the subdivision, but just outside the development and he
reported the system to be in good condition as the Planning Commission approved
it.
33.   There was a brief discussion surrounding the probability that the Kenton
County Sanitation District would assume maintenance of all storm water systems
within the next couple of years. At that point, the District will take over all
public easements, but it is uncertain if private property systems will be
addressed. Council advised Mr. Schroder to approach the Sanitation District
sometime in the future about taking over maintenance of this retention area.
Resolution No. 2000-R-17 – Approving the Payment of Monthly Expenses for the
Senior Center
34.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to read Resolution No. 2000-R-17 approving the
monthly CBDG fund expenses for the Senior Center. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read Resolution
No. 2000-R-17.
35.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-17 as read. Mr.
Steffen seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried.
Discussion Regarding Active Pursual of Plans for Construction of a Police/
Administration Building
36.   Mrs. Yeager proposed that the city begin actively obtaining a design and
financing for a Police/Administration Building. She stated she feels the city
needs to investigate financing. Mayor Kriege stated he has been looking into
loan information and has been discussing design concepts with the architects
that are designing the Senior Center but stated there are no definite plans to
date.
37.   Mr. Feldhaus expressed concern because of the status of the Fowler Creek
Sewer Bond and questioned whether the city was in a position to assume another
bond. Mayor Kriege advised that although he does not have written documentation
to confirm the city is financially secure, his preliminary inquiries confirm
the city is in a good position to assume another bond. Mr. Feldhaus stated he
is not opposed to the construction of a new facility, just concerned about the
bond range the city can reasonably handle. Mrs. Gabbard agreed the police need
a building but concurred with Mr. Feldhaus that the city needs to know what the
bonding limit is and know what we can afford to pay. Mayor Kriege agreed that
the main concern is how to repay the loan, not how to obtain the loan. He
stated there are several banks eager to loan the city the funds.
38.   Again, Mrs. Yeager strongly expressed her desire to start the process for
this facility. Mr. Steffen agreed that the city needs to begin obtaining the
necessary data so that council can begin making decisions. Mr. Feldhaus
reiterated that he wanted to know what the city could afford. Mr. Ellison
suggested that council would be more put a plan into perspective if they could
be provided with credit line information.
39.   Mayor Kriege stated that the city would need to be able to fit a mortgage
payment into the budget. He advised that he would obtain credit information,
and design and construction costs for a new facility.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister
40.   Mr. McAllister reported the previous Zoning Administrator mailed
violation letters but that no citations were given. He advised that he has
implemented a plan – when a second violation letter is mailed it will be a
civil citation, carry a monetary fine for the violation, and taken before the
Code Enforcement Board. He feels this method will get results. Mr. McAllister
advised the previous letters mailed were not properly worded or sent certified,
so he has sent a mass mailing of the backlog. There was a brief discussion
regarding junk cars and the worst violations in the city. Mr. McAllister stated
that he feels the residents will begin cleaning up the violations when they are
cited. He also advised the city would cut the grass and charge the violator in
the future. Mr. Steffen and Mr. Ellison invited Mr. McAllister to the next
Planning & Zoning Committee meeting so they can assist him with some of the
“grandfathered” properties.
41.   Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr. McAllister about the business owner on Mt. Zion
Road who is operating illegally in a residential zone. Mr. McAllister stated
the violator has agreed to move and is looking for storage for his heavy
equipment. He reported that he would like to get the business halted first then
address the other violations with this person. The business owner has gone to a
lot of expense, which he will not be able to recoup.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
42.   Mr. Whitacre reported that he inspected the storm water retention system
in the Falcon Ridge Development Company has requested the city to take over
ownership. He said that the city should be aware that this area would need to
be mowed and maintained several times per year. Mr. Whitacre stated he would
send a letter to Bob Schroder regarding his inspection.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
43.   Mr. Barbian proposed his recommendation to apply for a text amendment to
the zoning ordinance that would reduce the size of accessory structures. A
lengthy discussion ensued wherein council discussed the types of structures
that would be affected by this amendment, specifically garages, carports and
storage buildings.
44.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to proceed with an application for the text
amendment regarding the size of accessory structures. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
45.   Mr. Ellison asked Mr. Barbian to inspect the pole sign violations on Cox
Road.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
46.   Mr. Smith reported that the fall cleanup went well, filling eight
dumpsters that were placed in three locations throughout the city. He stated
that three dumpsters would be placed at the locations sometime in the spring of
2001.
47.   Mr. Ellison remarked that trash cans were donated for use at the city’s
Park & Ride lot and asked Mr. Smith to have the trash removed every week.
48.   Mrs. Gabbard asked Mr. Smith about the drainage problem at Wedgewood and
Clubhouse Drives. Mr. Smith stated that he and Mr. McAllister inspected this
matter and concluded that the residents storm water runoff is causing the
problem. A lengthy discussion ensued. It was mentioned that this area also has
many natural springs and the water drainage is a constant problem. Mr. Smith
will copy council the ordinance pertaining to this storm water runoff for the
members to review.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
49.   Ms. Brake reported the annual Christmas Walk & Tour would be held on
December 13, 2000 from 6 p.m. until 9 p.m..
50.   Ms. Brake also reported the re-bids for the Senior Center went out today
and the bid opening will be on November 29, 2000 at 3:00 p.m. at the city
building. Mayor Kriege informed council that a special council meeting would be
necessary on December 7, 2000 to award the bid for the construction of the
Senior Center. He stated the bid information would not be ready in time for the
regular council meeting of December 4th.
Police Department – Shawn Butler, Chief
51.   Chief Butler reported the number of calls, arrests and citations his
department handled the previous month. He also reported on the various
community programs the department has been involved with. He announced a
graduation ceremony would be held this Thursday (11-9-2000) for the first class
of the Citizens Police Academy.
52.   Chief Butler presented a list of confiscated and seized property and city
property to council and requested this be declared as surplus property so that
it could be auctioned along with the abandoned vehicles. Mr. Feldhaus made a
motion to declare the list of property as surplus, with the exception of the
canine items, which he asked Chief Butler to find a Police Department the city
could donate this to and only auction the items if not donated. Mrs. Yeager
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-
0 in favor.
53.   Mr. Steffen asked Chief Butler if the department would drop the canine
program. Chief Butler replied that it would be dropped for the time being as
there are other areas that need priority. He stated he does not have the
manpower at this time to continue this program.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
54.   Mrs. Yeager stated this committee would be looking into the financing of
a police building. They will be working with the Finance Director, Amy
Guenther.
Building Committee
55.   Mayor Kriege stated this committee has been working on the Senior Center
project.
Personnel & Administration Committee
56.   Nothing to report as no meeting was scheduled last month.
Planning & Zoning Committee
57.   Mr. Barbian stated the committee included those issues earlier in this
meeting.
Public Safety Committee
58.    Mr. Dupps stated the committee is looking into a grant to fund a
Resource Officer for the High School. The next meeting is November 21, 2000 at
5:30 p.m.
Public Works Committee
59.   Mrs. Yeager reported the committee met and discussed general concerns;
nothing to report.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
60.   Mayor Kriege reminded council of the annual dinner of the Municipal
Government League on November 18, 2000 and instructed them to call the City
Clerk for reservations if they planned to attend.
61.   Mr. Feldhaus referred to the letter in the council packets from Forward
Quest wherein they are seeking funding to conduct a study of the future fiscal
capacity of the cities in Northern Kentucky. He stated the cost of the study is
$50,000 and they are looking for financial support from the cities. Mayor
Kriege stated that it would be divided among the interested cities and he is
confident that Fort Mitchell City Administrator, Bill Goetz will keep all
cities apprised of the status of this matter.
Adjournment
62.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Steffen. Motion
carried with all ayes. The meeting adjourned at 10:24 p.m.
________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
DECEMBER 4, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from the Independence Christian Church
gave the invocation. Council Members Steve Feldhaus, Donna Yeager, Jim Ellison,
Barbara Gabbard, Eric Dupps, and Gregory Steffen answered roll call. Also in
attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
Approval of the Minutes of the November 6, 2000 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the November 6, 2000
council meeting as submitted. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call
answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing Primary Elections – Second Reading
3.   Mr. Steffen made a motion for a second reading of the proposed ordinance
that would amend Section 30.20 of the Code of Ordinances by establishing
primary elections. Mrs. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call was answered
with six yes votes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
4.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2000-O-20 establishing
primary elections; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call was answered with six yes
votes; motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Resolution No. 2000-R-18 – Supporting the Development of a Regional Skatepark
Facility
5.   Mayor Kriege introduced a resolution for council’s consideration that
would show support for a regional skate park facility. He advised this effort
has been initiated by the Kenton County Mayors’ Group who have been researching
the development a skate park that would serve the entire area.
6.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to read Resolution No. 2000-R-18 supporting the
development of a regional skate park facility. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion.
A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Feldhaus voiced concern that if the city adopted
this resolution and the county chose a location within the city that did not
meet council’s approval, that it may leave the city with little recourse. Mayor
Kriege stated that by adopting this resolution the city would be supporting the
development of a skate park, not the design or location of the park. Mr.
Feldhaus stated that he felt it was premature to support this type facility as
it may have adverse affects. Mrs. Gabbard concurred with Mr. Feldhaus. Mr.
Steffen stated that if the skate park is located within an existing county park
then the city will not have any voice in the matter. Mayor Kriege stated the
possible locations include both public and private property. Mrs. Gabbard
stated she is in favor of exploring a regional skate park facility but is not
ready to offer her support at this time. Mr. Dupps stated if a skate park was
located in Independence that it would have to be located in an industrial area
as that is the only area zoned for such a development. Mayor Kriege advised
this type facility has been researched for the past year. He urged council to
show support of this effort. Mrs. Yeager reminded Mayor Kriege that a motion
was on the floor and asked that the vote be taken. Roll call vote was answered
with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried 5-
1 and Mr. Walker read the proposed Resolution.
7.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2000-R-18 supporting the
development of a regional skate park facility; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call
was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion
carried 5-1 in favor.
Clover Ridge Subdivision – Stage II Development Plan
8.   Mr. Walker, City Attorney, reviewed with council the Stage II development
plan for the Clover Ridge Subdivision on Senour Road. He explained the terms of
the Release and Settlement Agreement executed in June between the city and
Grand Communities, Ltd. wherein it requires council to approve the Stage II
Plan, as long as there is no major change involved.
9.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to accept the Clover Ridge Stage II Plan if it
is in accordance with Ordinance 1999-O-11. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. A
discussion ensued
10.   Mr. Feldhaus asked if the water upgrades had been included in the Stage
II Plan. Mayor Kriege stated the Release and Settlement covers that issue. Mr.
Steffen voiced concerns about approving this if the Planning & Zoning
Commission did not yet approve it. Mr. Walker stated the Planning Commission
had approved it. Mrs. Gabbard asked if the developer had agreed to conform to
council’s conditions. Mr. Walker replied they had. He explained there are two
documents that define the conditions; the Release and Settlement Agreement and
Ordinance No. 1999-O-11. Mr. Walker went on to say that in the Agreement the
city agreed to approve the plan if it meets the conditions. Again, Mr. Steffen
stated his reluctance to approve the plan, as he is not sure it has met the
Planning Commission approval. Mr. McAllister, Zoning Administrator, informed
council that the only issue that the Planning Commission was concerned with was
the water issue and he believes it has been mutually resolved. It is his
understanding that the number of permits issued will not exceed the water
capability limit. He stated the water upgrade would need to be in place before
additional permits are issued.
11.   Mayor Kriege advised council this matter could be placed on the agenda
for the special council meeting that has been scheduled for Thursday, December
7, 2000. In the meantime, additional inquiries would be made regarding the
Planning Commission’s approval of this Stage II Plan.
12.   Mr. Ellison and Mr. Dupps withdrew their motion and second respectively.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister
13.   Mr. McAllister reported that twenty-five percent of the sixty-four
violations have been abated. Many of these violations included yard maintenance
and moving vehicles that are illegally parked. He stated there are forty-eight
active violations. He stated he is also working on zoning issues.
14.   Mr. Feldhaus asked for an update on the violation on Mt. Zion Road where
a business was being operated out of a residential location. Mr. McAllister
reported the violator has ceased operation of the business and has moved the
heavy equipment to another location.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
15.   Mr. Barbian was absent due to illness. Mr. Ellison asked Mayor Kriege to
relay a question to Mr. Barbian regarding the building fee charged to a
resident on Pearl Drive for the replacement of electrical service. He said he
noticed this on Mr. Barbian’s monthly report and he feels the city should not
charge for this type of reparation. Mr. Ellison stated he would like to see the
city return this fee to the property owner. Mayor Kriege stated he would speak
with Mr. Barbian regarding this matter.
Cardinal Engineering – Dave Whitacre
16.   Mr. Whitacre stated he had nothing to report. Mr. Feldhaus asked Mr.
Whitacre what the total of the budgeted funds were spent on the road repairs to
date. Mr. Whitacre state he was not sure of the actual figures but did know
that the blacktop expense was lower than expected and the concrete repairs were
a little over the anticipated cost. He stated that it is hard to stay exactly
on budget, as these are estimated costs.
17.   Mr. Ellison asked Mr. Whitacre to look at Holten Drive as the turn radius
is in need of an upgrade as there is a permanent hole in that area. He stated
that at the time that road was developed truck trailers were only thirty-two
feet in length, but is much longer now. He asked Mr. Whitacre to measure the
turn radius area to obtain the correct dimensions that would accommodate the
larger trailers.
18.   Mayor Kriege advised council that he has recently begun meeting with
business representatives on Holten Drive to address some of their concerns. He
stated that the repairs on Holten Drive is one of the issues that need to be
considered.
Recreation – Nita Brake
19.   Mrs. Brake reminded council of the Christmas Walk & Tour that is planned
for Wednesday, December 13, 2000 from 6:00 p.m. until 9:00 p.m. The event will
begin with Mayor Kriege lighting of the community Christmas tree at
Independence Christian Church, 5221 Madison Pike. She stated that bands from
the area schools would be performing at several locations throughout the
downtown area along with other entertainment. She encouraged everyone to
attend.
20.   Mr. Feldhaus referred to Mrs. Brake’s monthly report by asking what T21
was. She stated that is the term for the sidewalk grant that the city is
applying for, which is due by February 1, 2001.
Police Department – Chief Shawn Butler
21.   Chief Butler reported that members of the department have made various
appearances at the schools and day cares. He also pointed out, that inserted in
the council packets were copies of newspaper articles giving the department
positive media coverage of recent accomplishments. He reported the first class
of the Citizens Police Academy graduated on November 9, 2000. Chief Butler also
advised council the Bank Safety Program would be re-instituted this year. He
said this provides a visible presence in the community. Chief Butler reported
the auction held on November 25 wherein approximately forty vehicles that sold
netted about $4,000.
22.   Chief Butler stated that Lt. Ed Bailey graduated from an executive
development course in October, which is eight weeks of instruction on
management issues.
23.   In closing, Chief Butler informed council that the Police Department
along with Administration staff would hold a food drive on Saturday, December 9
at the Independence Towne Center Kroger’s and the Remke’s on Turkeyfoot Road
from 9 a.m. until 12 noon. He stated they would work with the area churches to
get a list of needy families in Independence that could benefit from the
donations. Mr. Feldhaus stated he could provide Chief with the name of a person
that could donate some items from the Toys for Tots program.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
24.   Mayor Kriege reported there were no committee meetings during the month
of November.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
25.   Mayor Kriege informed council that a special council meeting has been
scheduled for Thursday, December 7, 2000 at 7:00 p.m. He stated it was
necessary to schedule this meeting to discuss awarding the construction
contract for the Senior Center. He advised the architects would also present a
preliminary concept design for a Police/Administration Building. In addition,
the Clover Ridge Subdivision Stage II plan would be discussed at that meeting.
26.   Mr. Feldhaus suggested that decisions regarding the Senior Center be made
by the new council administration when they take office in January 2001 as they
will be the members that will attend to the realization of a Senior Center. He
felt that the incoming council members should make the decisions regarding
contracts for the Senior Center.
27.   Mayor Kriege stated he would not force the matter if council did not want
to act on this. Mrs. Yeager stated that this council had worked on attaining
this Center and she expressed a desire to take the next step toward this goal
by awarding the construction contract before leaving office. Mr. Feldhaus
reiterated that he felt this was a decision to be made by the next convening
council. Mayor Kriege suggested this decision, whether to award the contract or
not, could be decided at the special council meeting on Thursday.
Executive Session
28.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to enter an executive session in accordance
with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation; seconded by Mr. Steffen.
Motion carried with all ayes.
29.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to take a brief recess before the executive
session; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes.
30.   Mr. Steffen made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by Mrs.
Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
31.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Ellison the meeting was
adjourned at 8:17 p.m. The motion carried unanimously.
______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
___________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
DECEMBER 7, 2000
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Jim Ellison, Donna Yeager, Barbara Gabbard, Gregory Steffen and
Steve Feldhaus answered roll call. Eric Dupps was absent due to a conflict in
his schedule. Also in attendance was City Attorney. H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
§   Senior Center – Construction Bids
§   Justice Lane – Regarding Maintenance of the Street
§   Clover Ridge Subdivision – Stage II Development Plan
§   Administration/Police Facility – Preliminary Concept Design
Senior Center – Discussion Regarding the Project
3.   Mayor Kriege introduced Michael Robson of Moody/Nolan Architects. Mr.
Robson presented council with a bid summary and recommendation for the award of
the construction of the Senior Center. Mr. Robson stated that sealed bids were
received and opened on November 29, 2000 and of the eight bids received, the
three lowest bids were received from Mark Spaulding Construction ($827,300),
Hemmer Industries ($858,000) and Millay Construction ($859,100). Mr. Robson
informed council that the preliminary cost estimate for the project was
approximately $694,000.00. He stated that because the bids received were higher
than that estimate Moody/Nolan is recommending the city choose one of three
options available. He stated the first option (Option A) was to award the
contract to the low bidder (Mark Spaulding) at the proposed bid of $827,300.00,
as they believe that it is a fair price for this building. The second option
(Option B) suggested taking time to review the funding options and building
requirements then reconvene to decide whether to award the contract to the low
bidder. Mr. Robson advised the bid specifications allow the city forty-five
days following the day of the bid opening to give the successful bidder a
“notice of award.” This would give council until January 13, 2001 to award the
bid. Mr. Robson stated that the third option (Option C) would involve reviewing
the building plan and possibly reducing the square footage by at least 500
square feet. He stated this would reduce the overall cost of the project and
eliminate the need for a sprinkler system, in addition to removing any items
from the project, which could aid in cost reduction. Then the project could be
re-bid.
4.   Mr. Robson recommended that the city choose Option A thereby awarding to
the low bidder (Mark Spaulding Construction). Mr. Robson indicated that Option
B would allow the city more time while deciding the best course to take. Mr.
Robson also indicated that Mrs. Yeager and Mrs. Brake were looking into
additional funding to subsidize the difference in the estimated cost.
5.   Mayor Kriege stated that upon review of the three options he felt that
Option C would have an adverse effect as this is the second time bids have been
taken for this project. Mr. Robson interjected that the general contractors’
interest begins to wane for a second and third bid process. Mr. Robson stated
that cost estimates are difficult to predict early in a project due to the
changing market and that at this time they have a greater understanding of what
the market bears.
6.   Mr. Feldhaus asked if 500 square feet was eliminated what would be the
cost savings. Mayor Kriege advised that Bryan Kirby, grant administrator for
this project, has stated that the CBDG grant has restrictions that prohibit
downsizing of the building after the bids have been received in order to reach
the preliminary cost estimate of $694,000. Mr. Feldhaus asked if the grant had
restrictions on the size of the building and suggested reducing the size of the
building to offset the cost. Mr.Robson stated that the grant funds emphasized
the type of facility built, not the size of the facility. Mrs. Gabbard asked if
the city would loose the grant funds if the building size were reduced. Mr.
Robson replied no and went on to say that in order to arrive at the estimated
construction cost the building may need to be reduced by more than 500 square
feet. He informed council that reducing the size of the building was discussed
before the second bid process, and the consensus was to stay with the proposed
size, but to look at other features of the building to reduce the cost. He
stated that by reducing the building 500 square feet it would then become
unnecessary to install a sprinkler system thereby saving $23,000.
7.   A lengthy discussion ensued concerning ways to get the construction cost
closer to the budgeted amount. Mr. Ellison suggested reducing the square
footage to shave off $100,000. Mayor Kriege introduced the low bidder, Mark
Spaulding, and asked him if he could provide some insight. Mr. Spaulding stated
that he did not think it would be possible to get the cost down to $694,000
with the current design. Mayor Kriege stated that redesigning the building
would incur additional architect fees. Mrs. Yeager stated she was told the city
would not have to pay for redesign fees only for the re-bidding.
8.   Mr. Ellison expressed concern that the re-bidding could have been avoided
if they were told at the onset to keep the building under a certain size. Mrs.
Gabbard stated that while she likes the concept and favors a Senior Center, she
felt the entire project needed to be re-examined as the city only has a
budgeted amount to spend. Mayor Kriege stated that he did not think that 6500
square feet was too great and if the size of the building was reduced then the
city may be looking at expanding it in less than ten years. Mr. Robson
interjected that a sprinkler system is not required for buildings less than
6000 square feet and if the building was reduced in size now and an addition
was added at a later date the installation would be very disruptive to the
entire building.
9.   Mayor Kriege recommended that council choose Option B that would give the
city time to look at other options, seek additional funding and then reconvene
to make a decision later. Mrs. Yeager stated that the Senior Center Board of
Directors is seeking contributions and asked council to trust the Board would
obtain the additional funding and proceed with the project by choosing Option
A. Mrs. Gabbard stated the city has to be able to pay for this building. Mr.
Ellison stated that he favored choosing Option B or C.
10.   Mr. Spaulding assured council that he would help any way he could but
advised that the subcontractors may not be able to uphold their estimates on
this project if council takes the full forty-five days to award the bid. Mr.
Steffen commented that he felt the building should be built as designed in
order to address the future needs of the city.
11.   Mayor Kriege remarked on how much he appreciates the effort, passion and
dedication Mrs. Yeager has invested in the realization of a Senior Center, but
stated that he does not feel the city can commit to awarding this bid until we
have an understanding of all available resources. Mr. Feldhaus stated that he
felt the newly elected council members that take office in January should be
making this decision and voiced his opposition to awarding the contract. He
stated the new city officials will be the ones that will see this project
through to completion and they should look at the finances to see if additional
funds are available to cover the overrun.
12.   Mr. Ellison also expressed concern that the city could not afford the
proposed building. He stated the city has other needs to address and suggested
downsizing the Senior Center in order to proceed, then adding on to the
building as the city’s needs grow. He stated that he supported Mayor Kriege’s
recommendation that council choose Option B. Mrs. Gabbard concurred by stating
Option B would give the city time to look at the whole picture.
13.   Mr. Steffen stated he felt it was better to settle this matter now than
to delay the project until the new officials take office. Mr. Robson informed
council that by choosing Option B it would leave open Option C and/or Option A
as alternatives, if necessary.
14.   Mrs. Gabbard made a motion to accept the architect’s Option B
recommendation regarding the bids received for the Senior Center. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and one no vote
cast by Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
Justice Lane – Discussion Regarding Street Maintenance
15.   City Attorney, Lawson Walker addressed council about the maintenance of
Justice Lane. He provided some history about Ordinance No. 1-11-87 that
accepted Justice Lane as a city street for maintenance purposes as it presently
exists. Mr. Walker explained the ordinance was drafted for the sole purpose of
assisting a property owner in order to obtain a loan to build a house on the
street. He stated some of the residents of Justice Lane are requesting the city
maintain the street according to the ordinance. Mr. Walker informed council
that in researching this matter they have discovered the street was never
platted in order to be dedicated as a city street. He advised that Kentucky
statutes are very specific regarding procedures necessary to take ownership of
a street. He stated that since the city does not own the land it would be
necessary for the owner to donate the land or be willing to sell it to the
city. Mr. Walker offered two options to council. The first option would be to
have the city engineer survey the area that needs to be dedicated and get a
realtor appraisal, then offer to buy the land from the owner, if the owner
refuses, then exercise the city’s power of condemnation to acquire the land.
The second option would be for the city to prove there has been five years of
continuous use as an open street, which would probably end in a lawsuit. Mr.
Steffen commented the owner would probably argue it was permissive use.
16.   There was a brief discussion regarding ingress and egress for the
residents on Justice Lane. Mr. Walker stated he knows of only one owner that
has access limitations. Mrs. Gabbard stated all property owners have the one
access. It was also discussed as to whether or not the street is actually owned
by the resident that claims it. Mr. Ellison stated the resident has in his
possession survey blueprints that shows he owns the land. In that case, Mr.
Walker advised it would be necessary for the city engineer to get permission to
go onto private property to survey the area and if permission is not granted it
would be necessary to obtain a court order to go onto the property. Mr. Ellison
suggested asking Jed Deters to borrow the surveyor blueprints from the property
owner before going onto the land.
17.   Mrs. Yeager asked why the city was getting involved in this matter as she
felt this was a civil dispute between the property owners on Justice Lane. Mr.
Walker stated the property owners bought the land to develop knowing there was
only a private drive to access the land. Mayor Kriege stated there are property
owners concerns that the city needs to address. Mr. Walker suggested there are
potential claims against the city that would need to be discussed further in an
executive session.
Clover Ridge Subdivision – Stage II Development Plan
18.   Mr. Walker re-introduced the Stage II Development Plan for the Senour
Road subdivision known as Clover Ridge. He advised council that the Planning
Commission does not act when the plan is in compliance; they just announce the
plan as approved.
19.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to accept the recommendation of the Planning
Commission and approve the Stage II Development plan for the Clover Ridge
Subdivision. Mrs. Yeager seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with three
yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Steffen and Mr. Feldhaus. Motion carried
3-2 in favor.
Administration/Police Facility – Discussion of Preliminary Concept Design
20.   Mayor Kriege introduce Mark Gribler an architect whom he asked to submit
a proposal for a facility(s) for the Police and Administration Departments. Mr.
Gribler informed council that he had been working on the Senior Center project
as an employee of Moody/Nolan Ltd. but has recently parted company with the
firm. He assured council that he will continue to be available to assist with
the Senior Center project regardless of his relationship with Moody/Nolan Ltd.
21.   Mr. Gribler stated that his proposal for Police and Administration
facilities would involve a more prudent, systematic approach that would fulfill
the needs of the city. He stated he would perform an assessment study that
would take into consideration the city’s growth and he recommended a
construction firm be engaged to obtain cost estimates. He also suggested that
financing options be investigated. Mr. Gribler stated that when looking into
the facility review and assessment, proposals will include the following
options: two separate buildings (one for police and one for administration), a
new police building and/or the remodeling of the current administration
building.
22.   Mayor Kriege commented that the Senior Center did not have a schematic
plan, which he feels would have been advantageous. Mr. Gribler stated the
entire process might take up to twenty-four months.
23.   Mr. Feldhaus commented that he felt since the city has received the
Renaissance designation that the city offices should remain in the downtown
area and the city should look at existing buildings. He stated that he did not
think the city needed to build a multi-million-dollar building. Mr. Gribler
stated information would be compiled to see what is feasible. He assured Mr.
Feldhaus that considerations would be taken in regard to the Renaissance
Program and he would assist the city in attaining the silver status. Mrs.
Gabbard agreed that the city should look at all options and build what is
practical. Mayor Kriege commented that it would be helpful to have a
construction company assist before going forward. Mr. Ellison concurred with
Mr. Feldhaus that the city should look at existing properties in the downtown
area.
24.   Mayor Kriege urged council to move forward with this feasibility study as
presented by Mr. Gribler for a fee of $39,000. Mr. Feldhaus suggested the newly
elected council members taking office in January should look at the budget and
make this decision. Mrs. Gabbard stated she like the ideals presented by Mr.
Gribler but concurred with Mr. Feldhaus in that the new council should make
this decision. Mr. Ellison agreed and added the new council members may have
ideas they would like to present. Again, Mayor Kriege urged council’s approval
so that the process would not be delayed another month. Mr. Feldhaus stated he
did not want to start the process for a project the city may not be able to
afford.
25.   Mrs. Yeager made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to accept the
proposal submitted by Mr. Gribler to do a schematic design for a Police/
Administration building(s) for $39,000. Mr. Steffen seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with two yes votes and three no votes cast by Mr. Feldhaus,
Mr. Ellison and Mrs. Gabbard. Motion was defeated 3-2.
Adjournment
26.   Upon motion by Mr. Feldhaus and second by Mr. Ellison the meeting was
adjourned. Motion passed unanimously and the meeting adjourned at 9:40 p.m.
________________________________
                        Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2001 Minutes
JANUARY 8, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from the Independence Christian Church
gave the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike
Gabbard, Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance
was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege introduced and welcomed the new council members.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 4, 2000 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the December 4, 2000
council meeting as amended. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. Roll call answered
with five ayes and one pass by Mr. Gabbard. Mr. Gabbard stated that since he
did not attend that meeting he would pass on voting. Motion carried 5-0 in
favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 7, 2000 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve the minutes of the special council
meeting held on December 7, 2000 as submitted. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion.
Roll call was answered with three yes votes and one abstain by Mr. Dupps,
explaining that he was absent from that meeting, and two pass votes cast by Mr.
Gabbard and Mr. Kudera also citing they did not attend that meeting. Mayor
Kriege cast the deciding approving vote. Motion carried 4-2-1 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Kenton County Sheriff, Chuck Korzenborn, addressed council regarding
“Operation Grinch” which was a project of the Sheriff’s Department to clear up
outstanding warrants. He stated that with the help of the Independence Police
Department they were able to clear up 1900 warrants. Sheriff Korzenborn stated
that this was a highly confidential project kept secret until the last minute.
When he telephoned Chief Butler to request the assistance of Independence
police personnel, Chief Butler immediately gave a positive response. Sheriff
Korzenborn stated that his department will be glad to offer assistance to the
city any time and thanked the Independence Police Department for all their help
in making “Operation Grinch” such a success.
Holten Drive – Kent Howard, CEO Balluff Inc.
6.   Mayor Kriege stated that he and Jeff Smith have met with several
representatives of the businesses located on Holten Drive regarding some of the
concerns they have on city services. Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Kent Howard,
President and CEO of Balluff Inc who addressed council regarding these
concerns.
7.   Mr. Howard advised the other businesses on Holten Drive include A.O.
Smith, Camco, The Discovery Channel and Appleton Papers. He stated that Mayor
Kriege and Jeff Smith have been helpful by listening to their concerns in an
effort to arrive at some solutions. Mr. Howard stated that two of the major
concerns is the condition of the street, which is in need of major repairs/
upgrades, and the addition of a traffic light and turn lane at the Holten/
Industrial Road intersection. He went on to say that the street was not
designed to support the heavy traffic of the trucks that now travel this road
on a daily basis. Another concern was the difficulty in existing Holten Drive,
as there is not a traffic light to regulate the flow. He stated that there is
sometimes a fifteen or twenty minute wait to get out onto Industrial Road. He
stated the businesses have tried staggered quitting times to alleviate this
problem to no avail. Mr. Howard stated he is aware Industrial Road is a state-
maintained street but would like the city’s assistance in requesting a traffic
light from the state for this intersection.
8.   Mr. Howard informed council that Balluff is looking into a possible
addition to their building but is also looking at the possibility of a location
with more accessibility.
9.   Mayor Kriege informed council that he has met twice with this business
group to start a dialogue. They are working on short term solutions while
addressing viable long-term solutions. He stated other issues that have been
discussed include services from the Fire/EMS Department, Police Department and
Public Works Department. Mayor Kriege stated he will continue to work toward
resolving their concerns and advised council these businesses would like a
commitment from council to move forward.
10.   Mr. Kudera asked if a cost has been estimated for the road repairs. Mayor
Kriege stated that the preliminary estimate for short-term road repairs is
$85,000 and long term repairs would run between $500,000 to $1,000,000.
11.   Mr. Ellison expressed concern that the Appleton Papers warehouse was
making a major contribution to the wear and tear of the road but not making a
significant contribution to the tax base. He indicated it would be appropriate
for that business to commit financial assistance for the major road repairs
that are needed. Mr. Ellison suggested that Mayor Kriege speak with
representatives of Appleton Papers regarding a possible road repairs
assessment. Mr. Howard commented that the business owners have not ruled out
possible contributions to get this street repaired. Mr. Gabbard agreed that the
city needed to work with the business owners to obtain financial assistance to
solve this matter.
12.   There was a brief discussion regarding a possible turn lane and traffic
signal at that intersection. Mayor Kriege stated that permits would need to be
obtained from the state for a turn lane. Mr. Dupps stated that historically the
city has not been successful getting traffic signals on state roads that run
through the city. He asked Chief Butler to obtain the necessary traffic data so
that he city will have a stronger case when making the request. Mayor Kriege
instructed Chief Butler to record the busiest times of the workday. Mr.
Moriconi asked if the proposal for repairs was for 1000 feet. Mr. Howard stated
the proposal was for repairs of the entire street but indicated that the back
half of the street was in better condition than the front half.
13.   Mayor Kriege advised council the city needs to plan to include the cost
of these repairs in the next fiscal year (2001-2002) budget.
OLD BUSINESS
Senior Center – Moody/Nolan Architects – Michael Robson and Mark Spaulding
14.   Mayor Kriege introduced Michael Robson and Mark Spaulding from Moody/
Nolan Architects. Mayor Kriege gave a brief update to council of the Building
Committee meeting held at 5:00 p.m. before this meeting. He stated the
committee discussed financing the Senior Center for ten years and obtaining a
one-year construction loan.
15.   Mr. Robson reviewed the Senior Center project proposal that was presented
to the outgoing council at the December 7, 2000 special council meeting. He
advised the project was originally budgeted at $694,000 and that the lowest bid
received from the first Notice of Bids was well over $1,000,000. Since the bids
received were over the estimated budget, he stated that it was decided to put
the bid out a second time wherein the contractor could bid a base price for
construction of the building and bid separately on the optional features (deck,
canopies, roofing, kitchen equipment, lighting). Mr. Robson stated the low bid
received and opened on November 29, 2001 was for $827,300 from Mark Spaulding
Construction. He stated that the opinion of Moody/Nolan Architects is that this
is a fair market price for the building.
16.   Mr. Robson presented three options to council:
§   Option A – Award the bid to Mark Spaulding Construction as the low bid for
$827,300. He advised the bid specifications allowed the city forty-five days
following the bid opening to give the successful bidder a “notice of award.” He
stated that forty-five day deadline is January 13, 2001.
§   Option B – Take time to review the funding options and building
requirements then reconvene to make a decision about awarding the bid. He
stated the outgoing council at the December special meeting chose this Option.
Since that time additional funding has been obtained; Kenton Council Fiscal
Court has committed $200,000 to the project.
§   Option C – Review the building plan and possibly reduce the square footage
by at least 500 square feet and eliminate items from the project which would
aid in the cost reduction. Then the project could be re-bid.
Mr. Robson advised council that the deadline for awarding the bid is
approaching this Friday. He recommended awarding the low bid to Mark Spaulding
Construction for the base amount of $827,300 and include Alternate No. 1 for
the construction of the deck for $53,268 for a total of $880,568.00.
17.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to award the bid for the construction of the
Senior Center to Mark Spaulding Construction for $827,300 plus the additional
cost of $53,268 for the deck. Mr. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call vote
was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
18.   Mayor Kriege informed Mr. Spaulding he necessary documents would be
completed by Friday.
NEW BUSINESS
FORWARD QUEST
19.   Mayor Kriege directed council to the letter from Forward Quest, Inc.
inserted in the council packets wherein a request is being made for financial
support to conduct a study of future fiscal capacity of Northern Kentucky
cities. The letter states the cost of the study will be $50,000 and they
anticipate the cities will collectively contribute $10,000 toward that cost.
Each city is asked to contribute $250, $500 or $1,000. Mayor Kriege suggested
the Budget & Finance Committee review the budget to see if the city has
available funds to contribute.
20.   Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Ellison voiced opposition to contributing to this
study. Mr. Ellison stated that when Quest was formed they ignored the cities
and he does not feel city funds should be spent on this study. Mr. Gabbard
agreed and felt the city did not need an organization to do this type of study.
21.   Mr. Kudera commented that any countywide study would be a good investment
for the city. Mr. Bushong wondered how other local cities were responding and
stated he would like to know this before committing funds for this study.
22.   Mayor Kriege stated he would speak with Mike Hammons, President of
Forward Quest and ask him to address council at the next council meeting.
Proposed Ordinance to Adopt a Personnel & Pay Classification Plan
23.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading in summary of a proposed
ordinance to enact a Personnel and Pay Classification Plan. Mr. Kudera seconded
the motion.
24.   There was a brief discussion to change the wording in Section I (job
descriptions to job “title”). In addition, Mr. Gabbard questioned the deletion
of the position of Police Captain. Chief Butler stated they no longer have that
position.
25.   Roll call was answered with all ayes and Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister
26.   Mr. McAllister reported that of the sixty-four original zoning violations
identified when he took over the zoning administration, all but ten have not
been served due to incorrect mailing addresses or the certified mail was
returned.
27.   Mr. McAllister addressed council regarding the amount of fines to charge
the outstanding zoning violators. He stated the ordinance refers to a minimum
and a maximum fee, but he suggested council set a scale based upon the type of
violation. He did not think the Planning Commission should create this fee
schedule. Mayor Kriege suggested that Mr. McAllister and Mr. Walker discuss
this process. Mr. Walker advised that the city has penalties which can be
affixed but that fines are imposed by a judge. He stated this is a duty of the
Code Enforcement Board. Mr. Ellison agreed these violators should be summoned
before the Code Enforcement Board before taking the case before the District
Court. Mr. Walker stated he would meet with Mr. McAllister to establish a
procedure for referring non-conforming violators to the Code Board.
28.   On a final note, Mr. McAllister reported that the issuance of zoning
permits has slowed due to the cold weather.
City Engineer – Dan Briggs
29.   Mr. Briggs stated he did not have a formal report to submit. He reported
he is completing the paperwork on last year’s street repairs and is negotiating
a final agreement on pay release to the contractor.
30.   Mr. Briggs commented on the Holten Drive discussion earlier in the
meeting by stating a $9,000 geotech study was completed a few years ago. He
stated that four years ago the reconstruction cost, without turn lanes, etc.
was estimated to run $500,000-$600,000. He suggested a temporary traffic lane
would need to be installed during the reconstruction project. He stated he
would devise a couple different radius points in order to draft a turning
point.
31.   Mr. Bushong asked Mr. Briggs what the status was for the installation of
water lines for Beechgrove Drive. Mr. Briggs stated he thought it would be
around April, depending on heir schedule. He stated he would make some contacts
and get back with him.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
32.   Mr. Barbian stated he did not have anything to report but advised council
he would present a 2000 year end report at next month’s meeting.
Public Works – Jeff Smith
33.   Mr. Smith stated the recent snowfalls resulted in eight callouts for snow
removal. He acknowledged his appreciation for the assistance received by the
Kenton County Public Works Department. Mayor Kriege stated he did not receive
any complaint calls from residents and credited the snow removal plan that the
county and city have created for keeping the streets in good condition during
these snowfalls.
34.   Mr. Dupps asked Mr. Smith if he had begun the interview process to fill
the vacant position in the Public Works Department. Mr. Smith replied he will
begin interviewing three applicants tomorrow.
Recreation – Nita Brake
35.   Ms. Brake reported the city would receive the final reimbursement check
from the state in February for the Memorial Park Walking Trails Grant. She
stated this grant was a 38% NRTF grant with the city matching 52%. Total
reimbursement from the state was $18,923 with the city contributing $14,746 and
donated labor, materials and in kind services totaled $16,129 making the total
construction of the walking trails just under $50,000.
36.   Ms. Brake also reported that Mrs. Sterling Staggs made a $50.00 donation
to the parks.
37.   Ms. Brake stated she is working on plans for this year’s July 4th
Celebration and hopes to engage paratroopers as part of the entertainment. She
stated that because of bad weather, the Christmas Walk had to be postponed one
week and although it was cold outside, the event was well attended. Mayor
Kriege suggested changing the date for the Christmas Walk next year.
38.   In closing, Ms. Brake introduced four members of the Senior Center Board
of Directors: Phil Turner, Kurt Keeney, Ed Currin and Donna Yeager.
Police Department – Chief Shawn Butler
39.   Chief Butler reported that the total number of service calls, arrests,
etc. for the year 2000 increased by five percent from 1999. He stated this is a
fifteen- percent decrease from 1998. He reported the department has begun a
reading program in the grade schools, which has been received well.
40.   Chief Butler thanked everyone that participated in the Christmas food
drive. He said it was put together with short notice and was a success. They
were able to help more families than they had anticipated.
41.   Chief Butler reported they did not receive a grant for a school resource
officer but with the assistance of Firstar Bank and Simon Kenton High School he
feels they will have the manpower needed.
42.   In closing, Chief Butler informed council they Chaplain’s Program would
be resurrected and the department has received two grants totaling $5,000.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
43.   Mayor Kriege advised this committee would meet on January 15, 2001.
Building Committee
44.   Chairman, Chris Moriconi reported the committee met prior to this meeting
to discuss the Senior Center which was addressed earlier.
Personnel & Administration Committee
45.   Chairman, Jim Bushong stated a written report on the January 4, 2001
meeting was submitted in the council packets. He reported the committee
reviewed six applications that Mayor Kriege had selected from the sixty resumes
submitted for the position of City Administrator. Of the six, the committee
selected the top three who were contacted to schedule an interview and
discovered that only two applicants were still available. He stated the two
applicants would be interviewed this Saturday, January 13, 2001. Mr. Gabbard
stated he thought another applicant would be chosen so that council would have
three candidates to interview. Mayor Kriege stated the committee could do that
but added he would like to meet on Saturday in an effort to move along
expeditiously.
Planning & Zoning Committee
46.   Mayor Kriege stated this committee is scheduled to meet on January 25,
2001.
Public Safety Committee
47.   Mayor Kriege stated this committee is scheduled to meet on January 15,
2001.
Public Works Committee
48.   Mayor Kriege stated this committee is scheduled to meet on January 10,
2001.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
kg+a design group inc – Mark Gribler
49.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Mark Gribler, Architect with kg+a design
group inc. Mr. Gribler presented council with a proposal to plan and design a
municipal facility(s) and assist in the Renaissance Kentucky Program. Mr.
Gribler stated this proposal was presented at the December 7, 2001 meeting to
the former council who determined this project should be endorsed by the
council that would be overseeing it to completion. He went on to say this
proposal would identify the facility construction needs of the city while
taking into consideration the city’s budget and affordability. Mr. Gribler
advised the schematic design would also include attention to taking the
Renaissance Kentucky Program to the next level by addressing an improvement
strategy for downtown. He stated that the options for a facility or facilities
would include several options. Mayor Kriege stated that by accepting this
proposal the city will conduct intelligent planning which will provide more
data and options than the Senior Building Project.
50.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept Mr. Gribler’s proposal to conduct a
review regarding the planning and design of municipal facilities for the city
for $39,950. Mr. Dupps stated he felt the Budget and Finance Committee should
review this need and bring a recommendation to the council. Mayor Kriege stated
the current budget has a $200,000 Building Fund allocation and stated those
funds for this type of expense. Mr. Gabbard agreed with Mr. Dupps. Mr. Moriconi
stated this was the first time he has seen this proposal and hesitated to act.
Mayor Kriege advised that two budget meetings will be held in the coming weeks
and he will bring this proposal back to the February meeting. He maintained
that he felt this was a high priority project for the next two years. Mr.
Kudera stated that he felt $40,000 was not going to break the city and felt it
was unnecessary to delay this project further. Mayor Kriege stated he would re-
address this next month. Mr. Kudera’s motion died for lack of a second.
Executive Order – Appointing Chris Moriconi as Vice Mayor
51.   Mayor Kriege introduced an Executive Order to appoint Council Member,
Chris Moriconi as Vice-Mayor, which he asked Mr. Walker to read.
52.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2001-EO-01
appointing Chris Moriconi as Vice Mayor. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. A
brief discussion ensued.
53.   Mr. Gabbard expressed his objection to this Executive Order. He stated he
spoke with Bill Thielen, legal counsel with the Kentucky League of Cities, who
advised that many powers of the mayor could not be delegated to a council
member. Mr. Gabbard also stated there have been several Attorney General
Opinions on this matter. Mr. Kudera expressed his approval of designating a
Vice-Mayor in case of an emergency. Mr. Ellison stated that he thinks Mr.
Gabbard’s objection is with the term ‘vice-mayor’ and not the appointment. Mr.
Gabbard stated that the mayor could not delegate authority to a council member
because council members are not subordinate to the mayor. He stated the
Executive Order should be more specific in the duties to be carried out by a
vice-mayor. Mayor Kriege stated that he might not always be available to
perform ceremonial events, etc. In closing, Mayor Kriege stated the Executive
Order specifically states the vice-mayor appointment only “delegates those
duties, power and responsibilities as permitted by the statutory provisions”.
54.   At this time, roll call vote was taken. Roll call was answered with three
yes votes and one abstain by Mr. Moriconi and one pass vote cast by Mr. Gabbard
for reasons stated. Mayor Kriege voted yes. Motion carried 4-1-1 in favor.
Municipal Order appointing Council Committee – Municipal Order No. 2001-MO-01
55.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to adopt Municipal Order No. 2001-MO-01
appointing the Council Committees. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Roll call
vote was answered 6-0 in favor.
Mayor Kriege’s Closing Remarks
56.   Mayor Kriege announced he would be participating in the Martin Luther
King Jr. ceremonies to be held in Covington on January 15, 2001. Pastor Randy
McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church is this year’s Chairman and the
keynote speaker will be State Representative Arnold Simpson
Adjournment
57.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Dupps the meeting was
adjourned at 8:47 p.m. Motion carried with all ayes.
______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JANUARY 13, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order. Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim
Ellison, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that this special meeting was called in order to
discuss filling the position of City Administrator. He informed council they
would have the opportunity to interview the two finalists at this meeting
during executive session.
Executive Session
3.   After a brief discussion, Mr. Dupps made a motion to enter into executive
session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (f). Mr. Ellison seconded the motion.
Motion carried with all ayes.
4.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to return to the regular session; seconded by Mr.
Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
5.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion
carried unanimously. The meeting adjourned at 12:50 p.m.
________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
___________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JANUARY 22, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. Jim Bushong,
Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered
roll call. Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion of approving an Executive Order to appoint Mark Wendling as City
Administrator. He asked for a motion and second then he would open the floor
for discussion. Mr. Gabbard requested that he be given the opportunity to ask
Mr. Wendling some questions since he missed the special meeting of council on
January 13, 2001, at which time the candidates were interviewed. Mayor Kriege
stated that it would be necessary to enter an executive session.
Executive Session
3.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to enter executive session in accordance with
K.R.S. 61.810 (f). Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with
three yes votes and three no votes cast by Mr. Kudera, Mr. Moriconi and Mr.
Bushong. Mayor Kriege broke the tie with a yes vote. Motion carried 4-3 in
favor.
4.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Ellison the council went back
to the regular session. Motion carried with all ayes.
Review of Proposed Contract for City Administrator
5.   Mr. Gabbard requested a moment to review the changes made to the final
copy of the proposed contract with Mr. Wendling.
6.   Mr. Ellison referred to page two, section three regarding suspension and
asked if past employees had been afforded a hearing. Mayor Kriege stated that
wording has been deleted in the revised copy of the contact attached to the
Executive Order.
7.   Mr. Gabbard referred to section four regarding termination and severance
pay that afforded the city administrator four months’ salary and health
insurance upon termination for reasons other than just cause. He stated that he
believes the Kentucky Constitution and Attorney General Opinions would render
this an illegal provision. Mayor Kriege stated that would be reviewed and if
found to be in violation, the section would be renegotiated. Mr. Walker advised
the section of the Constitution that Mr. Gabbard referred to prohibit the
payment for lack of services. He went on to say that he understands the intent
of that but he does not believe there has ever been a case involving severance
pay. He mentioned several local cities and agencies that provide 4-6 months
severance pay in their administrator’s contract, if terminated for lack of
cause. Mr. Walker stated there is no consideration for the severance at the end
of the term.
8.   Mr. Bushong asked what council’s role was with regard to the appointment
of the City Administrator. He wondered if it was council’s job to dissect the
contract. Mr. Walker stated that the city is operating under K.R.S 83A wherein
the mayor has the authority to nominate this candidate, while the statute
requires the council’s approval of the hiring. He stated that his experience
with other cities, agencies and governments recognized council’s input into the
terms of the contract, as it is part of the budget, and they certainly have the
right to make inquires, but it is not council’s job to negotiate the contract.
9.   Mr. Gabbard concurred that council should have the right to make inquiries
of the contract as well as the citizens. Mr. Walker confirmed that Mr.
Bushong’s understanding was accurate in that council’s role was to approve or
disapprove the hiring and the contract is for the mayor to negotiate. Mr.
Bushong stated that he was not disagreeing with the right to ask questions but
that he just wanted to know if the contract negotiation was their function. Mr.
Ellison stated that he did not want to vote on an issue where he did not
understand the contract and wanted the opportunity to ask questions.
10.   Mr. Ellison questioned the term “exclusive use” under section ten
relating to the use of a city car and asked that the wording be changed to
“official city business”. Mayor Kriege stated the section reads “in accordance
with city policy” which should be adequate. He stated the vehicles could not be
used for personal vacations, etc. Mr. Gabbard asked if a policy has been
established on city vehicles. The City Clerk responded that the Personnel
Policy has a very brief reference to city vehicles under section five (11)
regarding travel wherein it states “use of privately owned vehicles is
discouraged city vehicles should be used whenever possible.” Mayor Kriege
stated this probably needs to be reviewed as the last city administrator had no
guidelines regarding the use of the city vehicle and suggested the Personnel
Committee look into amending this section of the Personnel Policy.
11.   Mr. Gabbard suggested that before hiring Mr. Wendling two things need to
be accomplished. First, the probationary clause of the Personnel Policy which
requires all employees, regardless of position, to pass a six month
probationary period, needs to be amended if it is going to be waived for Mr.
Wending. Secondly, he felt it would be necessary to amend the budget ordinance
to reflect the adjustment of the administrator’s salary.
12.   Mr. Moriconi commented that the six-month probationary clause might apply
automatically since it is not specifically addressed in the contract.
13.   Mayor Kriege stated a first reading of the Pay Plan Ordinance was
conducted at the January 8, 2001 council meeting. Mr. Gabbard stated that is
the Pay and Classification Plan and does not set forth the money in the budget.
Mayor Kriege stated the money is in the budget to accommodate the proposed
salary for Mr. Wendling. Mr. Ellison stated that as long as the city has not
exceeded the total amount set aside for salaries in the budget then we are
within the law. Mayor Kriege stated the city administrator salary expenditures
are currently at 41% of the budgeted amount. Mr. Kudera stated that it could
not be approved if this was the start of the fiscal year because it would be
$58,000 versus $51,000 and would exceed the budgeted amount. Mr. Gabbard
asserted that it was his belief these changes had to be made first.
14.   Mr. Walker advised that the city has not adopted an itemized budget. He
stated there is no legal budget for the city that lists the administrator’s
salary. He went on to say the $51,000 city administrator salary is not a legal
number, as it has never been published. He stated the legal ordinance lists the
summary totals for each department and that amount is lumped into the
administration summary. He went on to explain why budgets are adopted in this
manner; specifically so that city’s would not have to pay costly legal
publishing expenses. Mr. Walker also stated that if budgets were adopted in a
line item format, the city would be amending the budget month in and month out.
Budget amendments would jam up the council agendas as well as expending city
funds to publish each amendment. He stated a legal budget only is required to
state the proposed income and expenses; it does not have to be broken down into
individual line items. Mr. Walker stated the current dollar amount in the
budget shows the estimated expense to run the entire administration department
and that no individual employee’s salary is singled out in the legal budget
ordinance adopted by the city.
15.   Mr. Gabbard questioned section thirteen that pertains to the use of a
cell telephone provided by the city. He suggested there be a cap on the use for
personal calls. Mayor Kriege advised that section thirteen states “in
accordance with city policy” and cell phone use is addressed in the Personnel
Policy by stating that the phone may be used for non-business calls but the
employee must reimburse the city for those calls.
16.   Mr. Gabbard brought up the use of a city vehicle and wanted to know if
the city had a policy to use as a guideline. Mayor Kriege stated the city has
not adopted a policy but would be a good idea to look into this. Mr. Walker
stated that police and fire is exempt but that civilian employees that have an
assigned city vehicle are required to pay a personal use tax. Mr. Kudera stated
he thinks the cap is set by the IRS. Mr. Gabbard also objected to the phrase
“exclusive use” and requested this section be reworded.
17.   Mr. Dupps requested that section nine include “of the Mayor” at the end
of the paragraph. Mayor Kriege concurred.
18.   Mr. Gabbard questioned section eight regarding hours of work and the use
of compensatory time off. He stated that the CAO, as an exempt employee, does
not get comp time according to the Labor Cabinet. Shawn Butler, Chief of
Police, interjected that the Police Chief’s Association had speakers from both
the State and Federal Department of Labor address their organization at the
December meeting. He advised there have been changes to this that permit the
employer to allow comp time.
19.   Mr. Gabbard had several questions on page four of the proposed contract
regarding professional development, general expenses and civic club membership.
He expressed concern that these sections were too broad in nature and suggested
a limitation be set for these expenses. Mayor Kriege advised that continued
professional training was considered standard expenses for a city to keep staff
well trained. Mr. Moriconi and Mr. Kudera concurred. Mayor Kriege went on to
say that these expenses were budgeted for the previous city administrator as
well as other staff members.
20.   Mr. Ellison asked for an explanation of Section eighteen regarding civic
club memberships. Mayor Kriege stated these would be for local organizations
such as the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Ellison stated that is covered in section
fifteen and asked that section eighteen be deleted as it sounds as if the city
is buying into a membership to a golf course. Mayor Kriege advised it would be
taken into consideration.
21.   Mayor Kriege permitted several audience members to make comments. One
comment questioned the length of the proposed contract for the city
administrator. Mayor Kriege assured everyone that a contract has become a
necessary tool as an incentive for employment in a political climate where job
security is unpredictable because of changing elected administrations. Mr.
Walker advised that under the terms of the proposed contract the administrator
could still be terminated for cause in which case he would not receive the
severance benefits.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-02 Appointing Mark T. Wendling as City
Administrator
22.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2001-EO-02
appointing Mark T. Wendling as City Administrator. Mr. Moriconi seconded the
motion. Mr. Walker read the Executive Order.
23.   A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Ellison stated that he thought a hiring
was done by ordinance. Mr. Walker stated that he has seen it done both ways; by
ordinance or executive order. He advised that the Mayor has the authority to
make an appointment, but in accordance with state statute, the appointment has
to be approved by the council. Mr. Gabbard argued that the Mayor does not have
the authority to hire the city administrator under an Executive Order but that
the hiring should be by Municipal Order, as it requires council’s approval. Mr.
Walker disagreed, as it would still require that the Mayor make the appointment
by an Executive Order because the hiring/firing of employees is an executive
duty of the mayor.
24.   Mr. Ellison called for the question to the motion. Roll call on the
motion and second to approve Executive Order No. 2001-EO-02 yielded five yes
votes and one abstain cast by Mr. Gabbard. Mr. Gabbard clarified his vote by
stating he felt the hiring of the city administrator should be done by
Municipal Order not by an Executive Order. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Municipal Order No. 2001-MO-02 Appointing Mark T. Wendling as City
Administrator
25.   After a brief discussion, Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve Municipal
Order No. 2001-MO-02 appointing Mark T. Wendling as City Administrator. Mr.
Ellison seconded the motion. Mr. Walker read the Municipal Order. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
26.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Kudera the meeting was
adjourned at 8:15 p.m. Motion carried with all ayes.
____________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 5, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from the Independence Christian Church
gave the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Kudera, and
Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member Jim Ellison was unable to
attend due to his obligation at work and Council Member, Ike Gabbard was out of
town on vacation. Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege presented a plaque of recognition to Don Bridges, who
recently resigned as a member of the Board of Adjustments. Mayor Kriege thanked
Mr. Bridges for his many years of service on this Board.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 8, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular Council
Meeting of January 8, 2001 as presented. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 13, 2001 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to accept the minutes of the Special Council
Meeting of January 13, 2001 as submitted. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 22, 2001 Special Council Meeting
5.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to accept the minutes of the Special Council
Meeting of January 22, 2001 as submitted. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Donation for Easter Egg Hunt
6.   Ms. Karen Nitschke, Secretary of the Independence Lions Club, addressed
council about the annual Easter Egg Hunt. She stated the hunt would be held on
April 8 at Memorial Park. She also stated the event attracted over two hundred
children last year. She informed council the city donated $700.00 last year and
asked them to consider increasing the donation to $1,000, as they ran short of
prizes last year.
7.   Mr. Dupps asked if other organizations were asked to contribute to this
event and suggested they try to raise the additional $300 elsewhere. Ms.
Nitschke replied that the Lions and Leos have been asked to consider
contributing this year. She stated the Lions may be able to contribute $100 and
the Leos may hold a raffle as a service project to help raise funds to defray
the cost.
8.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to donate $850 to the annual Easter Egg Hunt
seconded by Mr. Kudera. Roll call was answered with four yes votes. Motion
carried 4-0 in favor.
Discussion of the Independence Towne Center (Specifically the Madison Pike Turn
Lane)
9.   Mr. Charles Deters addressed council regarding the construction of a turn
lane on Madison Pike, a condition imposed when the Planning Commission approved
the Towne Center’s site plan. He informed council that this condition was based
on the results of a traffic impact analysis study that was made several years
ago. The study recommended a turn lane be constructed to alleviate traffic in
the area. He stated that according to Section I (c) of Ordinance No.1996-O-18
“the roadway improvement as recommended by Pflum, Klausmeier & Gehrum
Consultants dated August 14, 1996 be constructed prior to, or simultaneous
with, the construction of either the proposed commercial development or the
proposed residential development which is a part of this review, whichever is
developed first.”
10.   Mr. Deters stated the he and the Planning Commission have differing
opinions of the interpretation of this ordinance, most specifically with “prior
to, or simultaneously with, the construction of either the proposed commercial
development or the proposed residential development…. whichever is developed
first.” Mr. Deters stated that this difference of opinion has recently
escalated as the Planning Commission is refusing to approve zoning permits for
further development until the roadway improvements are made. Mr. Deters stated
that he feels the Planning Commission is being arbitrary with no objective
criteria on which to base their decision. He questioned the Planning
Commission’s decision to require the construction of the road improvements when
the development is only 35% complete. Mr. Deters went on to say that a current
traffic impact study was to be completed by now and this new data could result
in opposing recommendations for that stretch of roadway. Mr. Deters stated that
when the city did not require immediate development of the turn lane he assumed
the city’s position was that the roadway improvements should be made when the
commercial construction was complete. In closing, Mr. Deters stated that he has
come before council to ask that they provide an interpretation of Section 1(c)
of Ordinance No. 1996-O-18.
11.   Mayor Kriege asked Scott Hiles, Planning Engineer with Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission to respond to Mr. Deters statements. Mr. Hiles
concurred that the Planning Commission staff and Mr. Deters disagree on the
interpretation of some of the wording in the ordinance. He feels that Mr.
Deters is interpreting the word “developed” as “finished” and the intention of
the Planning Commission was that the road improvements be constructed “prior to
or simultaneously with the development.” Mr. Hiles went on to say that the
Planning Commission’s standpoint is that the condition is not being met,
therefore they denied Fifth Third Bank’s request for zoning/building permits.
He stated the Planning Commission anticipated the roadway would be improved
before Kroger’s opened for business. Mr. Hiles stated the NKAP Commission staff
decided that it was time to require the Independence Towne Center to comply
with the roadway improvement condition by requesting a bond for the final road
development before additional permits would be issued. Mr. Deters stated that
two years ago he posted a $125,000 bond for this intersection.
12.   A lengthy discussion ensued. Mr. Deters emphasized the importance of a
new traffic study as the reconstruction of Route 17 will completely bypass the
Towne Center making the original study meaningless. He states this is another
reason he is reluctant to begin the road improvements until the study is
completed. Mr. Hiles stated their decision was based on the 1996 study and that
traffic in the area has increased considerably since then.
13.   Mr. Walker, City Attorney considered the opposing statements from Mr.
Deters and Mr. Hiles and advised that it was his opinion that Mr. Deters appeal
should be presented to the city’s Board of Adjustment for a ruling on the
interpretation of Ordinance No. 1996-O-18. He advised that council could not
interpret it’s own legislation. He went on to say that council could bypass the
Board of Adjustment and rule on this, but he advised against doing this, as it
is not proper procedure. Mr. Walker stated that if the Board of Adjustment
denies Mr. Deters’ appeal that it may come back to council for a ruling anyway.
14.   Mr. Kudera commented that it was apparent there is an arbitrary conflict
between this developer and the Planning Commission and suggested the matter be
resolved so that development can move forward. He expressed concern that Mr.
Deters has a significant amount of money tied up in the Towne Center and the
need to get answers to the questions asked tonight.
15.   Mr. Moriconi wondered what percent of the development needed to be
complete in order to comply with the word “simultaneous.” He asked Mr. Hiles
what prompted the Planning Commission to enforce the road improvement at this
time. Mr. Hiles responded that the Planning Commission was promised the
condition would be met in 1999 and it was not. He stated they are not trying to
be obstinate, just trying to look out for public safety and they feel the time
has come to enforce this condition.
16.   Mayor Kriege commented that he feels the language used in the ordinance
is “wide-open” and pointed out that, the wording in the ordinance was taken
from the Planning Commission’s recommendation on approving the site plan for
the Towne Center. He felt it was going to be difficult to interpret the word
“simultaneous.” Mayor Kriege stated that he felt the Planning Commission is
acting in good faith but expressed concern that this dispute is holding up
development at the Towne Center.
17.   Council Member, Mr. Bushong concurred and added that holding up zoning/
building permits is penalizing the city and is counterproductive. Mr. Deters
stated it took three months to get an approval for the Courthouse Restaurant.
18.   Mr. Walker advised that it was in everyone’s best interest to arrive at a
solution, in an effort to circumvent lengthy delays caused by an appeal to the
Board of Adjustment and the possibility of this matter ending up in Circuit
Court. He stated that if there are other relevant factors, they should be
considered and then Mr. Deters should commit to a dead line to making the road
improvements.
19.   Mr. Deters reiterated that he felt it was necessary to wait for the
results of the new traffic analysis study and expressed concern on predicting
the final positioning of Route 17 after the reconstruction is complete. In
addition, he advised it would cost a third of a million dollars to relocate
utility lines, an expense he did not want to incur needlessly. He stated that
the relocation of Route 17 was going to have a tremendous impact to the city of
Independence. He also informed council that he had applied to the state for a
traffic light at the corner of Declaration Drive and Roue 17 and was denied. In
closing, Mr. Deters expressed his concern that future development at the Towne
Center would be prohibited by the Planning Commission unless the road
improvements are made immediately.
20.   Mayor Kriege stated that he is willing to sit down with Mr. Deters and
the Planning Commission representatives in an effort to get a time frame for
this matter to be resolved. He indicated he would inquire on the status of the
recent traffic study conducted. It was decided that Mr. Walker would schedule a
meeting with all parties involved.
OLD BUSINESS
Pay & Classification Ordinance – First Reading
21.   Mayor Kriege advised it would be necessary to have another first reading
of this proposed ordinance in order to include the salary of the new City
Administrator, Mark Wendling.
22.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to adopt the employee Pay & Classifications Plan. Mr. Bushong
seconded the motion. No roll call, motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Walker
read the proposed ordinance.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister
23.   Mr. McAllister reported that he is attempting to abate zoning violations
by working with the property owners. Mayor Kriege asked that the abated list be
included in next month’s written report. Mayor Kriege also informed Mr.
McAllister that heavy construction equipment has been reappearing at 1020 Mt.
Zion Road. Mr. McAllister stated that at one point this violation was abated
but is now regressing and assured Mayor Kriege he would readdress this matter.
Mr. Bushong inquired on the progress being made with the backlog of violations.
Mr. McAllister stated there are less than half remaining and they are being
dealt with on a daily basis.
24.   There was a brief discussion on procedures to clean the city of old
inoperable vehicles. Mr. McAllister advised the city could not tow a vehicle
without the title. Mr. McAllister also discussed the city assuming the expense
to clean up properties that are seemingly abandoned. Mayor Kriege advised
citing the violators to the Code Enforcement Board. It was decided that Mayor
Kriege, Mr. Walker, Mr. Jeff S. Smith and Mr. McAllister would meet to
determine procedures to cite violators to the Code Board.
City Engineer – David Whitacre, Cardinal Engineering
25.   Mr. Whitacre distributed a report on Holton Drive for the reconstruction
of the radius turn where it intersects with Industrial Road. Mr. Whitacre
stated it would probably be necessary to have a special council meeting in
order to discuss this matter in detail. He stated the Holton Drive replacement
would be a long project, as consideration needs to be made regarding total
replacement of the existing street. His report included options that would
allow the project to be sectionalized and scheduled over a period. Mr. Whitacre
advised council that Holton Drive would be a significantly expensive project
(in the $1M range). Mr. Bushong speculated constructing an outlet for Holton
Drive onto Richardson Road. Mr. Whitacre stated a traffic expert should advise
on this. Mr. Moriconi asked if the overlay would be two inches in depth. Mr.
Whitacre replied the overlay would be a minimum two inches, as it would require
more than that to add strength to the roadway. Mayor Kriege stated he would
pass along this report to the Holton Drive Advisory Group.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
26.   Mr. Barbian submitted a year end report in the council packets. Mayor
Kriege noted that building permits were down slightly from the previous year.
Mr. Barbian also advised council that the Planning & Zoning Committee is
reviewing a model telecommunications ordinance that has been presented to the
local cities in Northern Kentucky.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
27.   Mr. Smith advised he submitted a written report that can be found in the
council packets. He also reported that Ken Hicks has been hired in the Public
Works Department to replace Dan Clifford who left the city in December for
another position out of state.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
Application for TEA 21 Grant
28.   Ms. Brake advised council that the deadline to submit applications for
the TEA 21 grant is this Thursday, February 8, 2001 at 4:30 p.m. and asked if
council wanted to proceed with this application for sidewalks for Section IV
along Madison Pike. Mayor Kriege advised he had discussed this with the
Building Committee and felt the city could continue with the plans to apply for
grant funds to assist with the construction of sidewalks along Madison Pike
from Hartland Blvd. to Walnut Hall.
29.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to apply for the TEA 21 grant, Section IV. Mr.
Dupps seconded the motion. A discussion ensued.
30.   Mr. Dupps stated that he thought it might be better to start on the west
side to better access Memorial Park and Courthouse Estates Subdivision. Mayor
Kriege replied that it was currently set up for the east side of Madison. Mr.
Bushong asked if the city had the funds to match the amount the grant would
require the city to pay. Mayor Kriege replied yes and that part of the city’s
match could be “in kind” services. Mr. Bushong would like to see that clarified
to prevent the application being rejected for something insignificant. Mayor
Kriege stated he would follow up before submitting.
31.   Roll call on the motion and second was answered with four yes votes.
Motion carried 4-0 in favor of applying for the grant.
Police Department – Chief Shawn Butler
32.   Chief Butler distributed the department’s annual report. He gave a verbal
report on the total number of service calls, arrests and citations issued last
month. He also reported the DARE program had 290 graduates this school term.
Chief Butler announced the annual basketball game between the police officers
and the firefighters on March 20, 2001 with the proceeds going to the Muscular
Dystrophy Association.
Brief Recess
33.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Moriconi a brief recess was
taken. Motion carried with all ayes.
34.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi the meeting resumed.
Motion carried with all ayes.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
35.   Mr. Kudera, Chairman of this committee reported that they have been doing
some analysis of the city’s financial situation. He stated the committee is
facing some challenges as the expenses are beginning to exceed the revenues.
Mr. Kudera said they would be reviewing several alternatives that will involve
possible increases in taxes and ways to cut expenses. Mayor Kriege stated the
committee will meet on February 13 and February 19 and will present options for
council to review at the annual Planning Session to be held on February 23 and
24.
Building Committee
36.   Mr. Moriconi, Chairman reported the committee is following the progress
of the Senior Center, which will begin construction in the spring. He reported
the Memorial Park Amphitheater would be constructed shortly thereafter,
completely funded by the state and private benefactors. Mr. Moriconi reported
the committee is also reviewing plans to construct restroom facilities at
Memorial Park and advised the South Kenton Lions Football Association has
offered to donate labor.
37.   Mr. Moriconi reported the committee has also reviewed the application for
a federal grant to install sidewalks along Madison Pike from Hartland Blvd. to
Walnut Hall Drive that would cover 80% of the cost. He advised that this
Section IV of Madison Pike was chosen as it was a flat area that would be the
“path of least resistance.”
38.   He stated the committee has also discussed the feasibility of a new
administration/police building and an interest in keeping city hall downtown in
order to keep that area of the city viable. Mayor Kriege advised this project
would require more discussion by the Budget and Finance Committee to study the
matter and discuss options.
Personnel & Administration Committee
39.   Mr. Bushong, Chairman reported the last meeting was in January wherein
they narrowed the City Administrator candidates to two. He stated the two
candidates were interviewed at a Special Council Meeting on January 13, 2001,
which ultimately led to the hiring of Mark Wendling as the new administrator.
He stated the next regularly scheduled meeting of this committee is set for
April 17, 2001 but due to a scheduling conflict, he will be unable to meet that
day. He stated he would try to reschedule that date with the other committee
members.
Public Safety Committee
40.   Mr. Dupps, Chairman reported the committee has reviewed the take home
fleet and the need to replace some of the cruisers. He stated the committee is
also reviewing the police salaries. Mr. Dupps advised they missed out on
obtaining a grant to fund a school resource officer, but that Simon Kenton High
School has agreed to finance eight hours per week for this service.
41.   In closing Mr. Dupps stated the next session of the Citizens Police
Academy will begin March 14, 2001 with twenty-five citizens enrolled.
Public Works Committee
42.   No report. Next meeting will be held in April.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
43.   Mayor Kriege stated he would like to postpone discussion of a proposal
for a police/administration facility as he feels more time is needed to study
this matter.
44.   He requested council’s endorsement of the executive orders before them
for individual appointments to various boards.
Executive Order to Appoint Mr. Bushong to the OKI Regional Council of
Governments
45.   Mr. Walker advised it was not necessary to make this appointment by
executive order, as it does not need council approval. Mayor Kriege advised
council that Mr. Bushong agreed to represent the city on the OKI Board.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-03 – Appointing Dwight Myers to the Code
Enforcement/Ethics Board
46.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2001-EO-03
appointing Dwight Myers to the Code Enforcement/Ethics Board. Mr. Moriconi
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-
0 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-04 – Appointing Richard J. Noah to the Code
Enforcement/Ethics Board
47.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2001-EO-04
appointing Richard J. Noah to the Code Enforcement/Ethics Board. Mr. Bushong
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-
0 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-05 – Appointing Robert E. Exeler to the Board of
Adjustment
48.   A motion was made by Mr. Kudera and seconded by Mr. Dupps to approve
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-05 appointing Robert E. Exeler to the Board of
Adjustment. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Adjournment
49.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting was adjourned at 9:05
p.m.
________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 5, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from the Independence Christian Church
gave the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Kudera, and
Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member Jim Ellison was unable to
attend due to his obligation at work and Council Member, Ike Gabbard was out of
town on vacation. Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege presented a plaque of recognition to Don Bridges, who
recently resigned as a member of the Board of Adjustments. Mayor Kriege thanked
Mr. Bridges for his many years of service on this Board.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 8, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular Council
Meeting of January 8, 2001 as presented. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 13, 2001 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to accept the minutes of the Special Council
Meeting of January 13, 2001 as submitted. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 22, 2001 Special Council Meeting
5.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to accept the minutes of the Special Council
Meeting of January 22, 2001 as submitted. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Donation for Easter Egg Hunt
6.   Ms. Karen Nitschke, Secretary of the Independence Lions Club, addressed
council about the annual Easter Egg Hunt. She stated the hunt would be held on
April 8 at Memorial Park. She also stated the event attracted over two hundred
children last year. She informed council the city donated $700.00 last year and
asked them to consider increasing the donation to $1,000, as they ran short of
prizes last year.
7.   Mr. Dupps asked if other organizations were asked to contribute to this
event and suggested they try to raise the additional $300 elsewhere. Ms.
Nitschke replied that the Lions and Leos have been asked to consider
contributing this year. She stated the Lions may be able to contribute $100 and
the Leos may hold a raffle as a service project to help raise funds to defray
the cost.
8.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to donate $850 to the annual Easter Egg Hunt
seconded by Mr. Kudera. Roll call was answered with four yes votes. Motion
carried 4-0 in favor.
Discussion of the Independence Towne Center (Specifically the Madison Pike Turn
Lane)
9.   Mr. Charles Deters addressed council regarding the construction of a turn
lane on Madison Pike, a condition imposed when the Planning Commission approved
the Towne Center’s site plan. He informed council that this condition was based
on the results of a traffic impact analysis study that was made several years
ago. The study recommended a turn lane be constructed to alleviate traffic in
the area. He stated that according to Section I (c) of Ordinance No.1996-O-18
“the roadway improvement as recommended by Pflum, Klausmeier & Gehrum
Consultants dated August 14, 1996 be constructed prior to, or simultaneous
with, the construction of either the proposed commercial development or the
proposed residential development which is a part of this review, whichever is
developed first.”
10.   Mr. Deters stated the he and the Planning Commission have differing
opinions of the interpretation of this ordinance, most specifically with “prior
to, or simultaneously with, the construction of either the proposed commercial
development or the proposed residential development…. whichever is developed
first.” Mr. Deters stated that this difference of opinion has recently
escalated as the Planning Commission is refusing to approve zoning permits for
further development until the roadway improvements are made. Mr. Deters stated
that he feels the Planning Commission is being arbitrary with no objective
criteria on which to base their decision. He questioned the Planning
Commission’s decision to require the construction of the road improvements when
the development is only 35% complete. Mr. Deters went on to say that a current
traffic impact study was to be completed by now and this new data could result
in opposing recommendations for that stretch of roadway. Mr. Deters stated that
when the city did not require immediate development of the turn lane he assumed
the city’s position was that the roadway improvements should be made when the
commercial construction was complete. In closing, Mr. Deters stated that he has
come before council to ask that they provide an interpretation of Section 1(c)
of Ordinance No. 1996-O-18.
11.   Mayor Kriege asked Scott Hiles, Planning Engineer with Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission to respond to Mr. Deters statements. Mr. Hiles
concurred that the Planning Commission staff and Mr. Deters disagree on the
interpretation of some of the wording in the ordinance. He feels that Mr.
Deters is interpreting the word “developed” as “finished” and the intention of
the Planning Commission was that the road improvements be constructed “prior to
or simultaneously with the development.” Mr. Hiles went on to say that the
Planning Commission’s standpoint is that the condition is not being met,
therefore they denied Fifth Third Bank’s request for zoning/building permits.
He stated the Planning Commission anticipated the roadway would be improved
before Kroger’s opened for business. Mr. Hiles stated the NKAP Commission staff
decided that it was time to require the Independence Towne Center to comply
with the roadway improvement condition by requesting a bond for the final road
development before additional permits would be issued. Mr. Deters stated that
two years ago he posted a $125,000 bond for this intersection.
12.   A lengthy discussion ensued. Mr. Deters emphasized the importance of a
new traffic study as the reconstruction of Route 17 will completely bypass the
Towne Center making the original study meaningless. He states this is another
reason he is reluctant to begin the road improvements until the study is
completed. Mr. Hiles stated their decision was based on the 1996 study and that
traffic in the area has increased considerably since then.
13.   Mr. Walker, City Attorney considered the opposing statements from Mr.
Deters and Mr. Hiles and advised that it was his opinion that Mr. Deters appeal
should be presented to the city’s Board of Adjustment for a ruling on the
interpretation of Ordinance No. 1996-O-18. He advised that council could not
interpret it’s own legislation. He went on to say that council could bypass the
Board of Adjustment and rule on this, but he advised against doing this, as it
is not proper procedure. Mr. Walker stated that if the Board of Adjustment
denies Mr. Deters’ appeal that it may come back to council for a ruling anyway.
14.   Mr. Kudera commented that it was apparent there is an arbitrary conflict
between this developer and the Planning Commission and suggested the matter be
resolved so that development can move forward. He expressed concern that Mr.
Deters has a significant amount of money tied up in the Towne Center and the
need to get answers to the questions asked tonight.
15.   Mr. Moriconi wondered what percent of the development needed to be
complete in order to comply with the word “simultaneous.” He asked Mr. Hiles
what prompted the Planning Commission to enforce the road improvement at this
time. Mr. Hiles responded that the Planning Commission was promised the
condition would be met in 1999 and it was not. He stated they are not trying to
be obstinate, just trying to look out for public safety and they feel the time
has come to enforce this condition.
16.   Mayor Kriege commented that he feels the language used in the ordinance
is “wide-open” and pointed out that, the wording in the ordinance was taken
from the Planning Commission’s recommendation on approving the site plan for
the Towne Center. He felt it was going to be difficult to interpret the word
“simultaneous.” Mayor Kriege stated that he felt the Planning Commission is
acting in good faith but expressed concern that this dispute is holding up
development at the Towne Center.
17.   Council Member, Mr. Bushong concurred and added that holding up zoning/
building permits is penalizing the city and is counterproductive. Mr. Deters
stated it took three months to get an approval for the Courthouse Restaurant.
18.   Mr. Walker advised that it was in everyone’s best interest to arrive at a
solution, in an effort to circumvent lengthy delays caused by an appeal to the
Board of Adjustment and the possibility of this matter ending up in Circuit
Court. He stated that if there are other relevant factors, they should be
considered and then Mr. Deters should commit to a dead line to making the road
improvements.
19.   Mr. Deters reiterated that he felt it was necessary to wait for the
results of the new traffic analysis study and expressed concern on predicting
the final positioning of Route 17 after the reconstruction is complete. In
addition, he advised it would cost a third of a million dollars to relocate
utility lines, an expense he did not want to incur needlessly. He stated that
the relocation of Route 17 was going to have a tremendous impact to the city of
Independence. He also informed council that he had applied to the state for a
traffic light at the corner of Declaration Drive and Roue 17 and was denied. In
closing, Mr. Deters expressed his concern that future development at the Towne
Center would be prohibited by the Planning Commission unless the road
improvements are made immediately.
20.   Mayor Kriege stated that he is willing to sit down with Mr. Deters and
the Planning Commission representatives in an effort to get a time frame for
this matter to be resolved. He indicated he would inquire on the status of the
recent traffic study conducted. It was decided that Mr. Walker would schedule a
meeting with all parties involved.
OLD BUSINESS
Pay & Classification Ordinance – First Reading
21.   Mayor Kriege advised it would be necessary to have another first reading
of this proposed ordinance in order to include the salary of the new City
Administrator, Mark Wendling.
22.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to adopt the employee Pay & Classifications Plan. Mr. Bushong
seconded the motion. No roll call, motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Walker
read the proposed ordinance.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister
23.   Mr. McAllister reported that he is attempting to abate zoning violations
by working with the property owners. Mayor Kriege asked that the abated list be
included in next month’s written report. Mayor Kriege also informed Mr.
McAllister that heavy construction equipment has been reappearing at 1020 Mt.
Zion Road. Mr. McAllister stated that at one point this violation was abated
but is now regressing and assured Mayor Kriege he would readdress this matter.
Mr. Bushong inquired on the progress being made with the backlog of violations.
Mr. McAllister stated there are less than half remaining and they are being
dealt with on a daily basis.
24.   There was a brief discussion on procedures to clean the city of old
inoperable vehicles. Mr. McAllister advised the city could not tow a vehicle
without the title. Mr. McAllister also discussed the city assuming the expense
to clean up properties that are seemingly abandoned. Mayor Kriege advised
citing the violators to the Code Enforcement Board. It was decided that Mayor
Kriege, Mr. Walker, Mr. Jeff S. Smith and Mr. McAllister would meet to
determine procedures to cite violators to the Code Board.
City Engineer – David Whitacre, Cardinal Engineering
25.   Mr. Whitacre distributed a report on Holton Drive for the reconstruction
of the radius turn where it intersects with Industrial Road. Mr. Whitacre
stated it would probably be necessary to have a special council meeting in
order to discuss this matter in detail. He stated the Holton Drive replacement
would be a long project, as consideration needs to be made regarding total
replacement of the existing street. His report included options that would
allow the project to be sectionalized and scheduled over a period. Mr. Whitacre
advised council that Holton Drive would be a significantly expensive project
(in the $1M range). Mr. Bushong speculated constructing an outlet for Holton
Drive onto Richardson Road. Mr. Whitacre stated a traffic expert should advise
on this. Mr. Moriconi asked if the overlay would be two inches in depth. Mr.
Whitacre replied the overlay would be a minimum two inches, as it would require
more than that to add strength to the roadway. Mayor Kriege stated he would
pass along this report to the Holton Drive Advisory Group.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
26.   Mr. Barbian submitted a year end report in the council packets. Mayor
Kriege noted that building permits were down slightly from the previous year.
Mr. Barbian also advised council that the Planning & Zoning Committee is
reviewing a model telecommunications ordinance that has been presented to the
local cities in Northern Kentucky.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
27.   Mr. Smith advised he submitted a written report that can be found in the
council packets. He also reported that Ken Hicks has been hired in the Public
Works Department to replace Dan Clifford who left the city in December for
another position out of state.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
Application for TEA 21 Grant
28.   Ms. Brake advised council that the deadline to submit applications for
the TEA 21 grant is this Thursday, February 8, 2001 at 4:30 p.m. and asked if
council wanted to proceed with this application for sidewalks for Section IV
along Madison Pike. Mayor Kriege advised he had discussed this with the
Building Committee and felt the city could continue with the plans to apply for
grant funds to assist with the construction of sidewalks along Madison Pike
from Hartland Blvd. to Walnut Hall.
29.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to apply for the TEA 21 grant, Section IV. Mr.
Dupps seconded the motion. A discussion ensued.
30.   Mr. Dupps stated that he thought it might be better to start on the west
side to better access Memorial Park and Courthouse Estates Subdivision. Mayor
Kriege replied that it was currently set up for the east side of Madison. Mr.
Bushong asked if the city had the funds to match the amount the grant would
require the city to pay. Mayor Kriege replied yes and that part of the city’s
match could be “in kind” services. Mr. Bushong would like to see that clarified
to prevent the application being rejected for something insignificant. Mayor
Kriege stated he would follow up before submitting.
31.   Roll call on the motion and second was answered with four yes votes.
Motion carried 4-0 in favor of applying for the grant.
Police Department – Chief Shawn Butler
32.   Chief Butler distributed the department’s annual report. He gave a verbal
report on the total number of service calls, arrests and citations issued last
month. He also reported the DARE program had 290 graduates this school term.
Chief Butler announced the annual basketball game between the police officers
and the firefighters on March 20, 2001 with the proceeds going to the Muscular
Dystrophy Association.
Brief Recess
33.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Moriconi a brief recess was
taken. Motion carried with all ayes.
34.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi the meeting resumed.
Motion carried with all ayes.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
35.   Mr. Kudera, Chairman of this committee reported that they have been doing
some analysis of the city’s financial situation. He stated the committee is
facing some challenges as the expenses are beginning to exceed the revenues.
Mr. Kudera said they would be reviewing several alternatives that will involve
possible increases in taxes and ways to cut expenses. Mayor Kriege stated the
committee will meet on February 13 and February 19 and will present options for
council to review at the annual Planning Session to be held on February 23 and
24.
Building Committee
36.   Mr. Moriconi, Chairman reported the committee is following the progress
of the Senior Center, which will begin construction in the spring. He reported
the Memorial Park Amphitheater would be constructed shortly thereafter,
completely funded by the state and private benefactors. Mr. Moriconi reported
the committee is also reviewing plans to construct restroom facilities at
Memorial Park and advised the South Kenton Lions Football Association has
offered to donate labor.
37.   Mr. Moriconi reported the committee has also reviewed the application for
a federal grant to install sidewalks along Madison Pike from Hartland Blvd. to
Walnut Hall Drive that would cover 80% of the cost. He advised that this
Section IV of Madison Pike was chosen as it was a flat area that would be the
“path of least resistance.”
38.   He stated the committee has also discussed the feasibility of a new
administration/police building and an interest in keeping city hall downtown in
order to keep that area of the city viable. Mayor Kriege advised this project
would require more discussion by the Budget and Finance Committee to study the
matter and discuss options.
Personnel & Administration Committee
39.   Mr. Bushong, Chairman reported the last meeting was in January wherein
they narrowed the City Administrator candidates to two. He stated the two
candidates were interviewed at a Special Council Meeting on January 13, 2001,
which ultimately led to the hiring of Mark Wendling as the new administrator.
He stated the next regularly scheduled meeting of this committee is set for
April 17, 2001 but due to a scheduling conflict, he will be unable to meet that
day. He stated he would try to reschedule that date with the other committee
members.
Public Safety Committee
40.   Mr. Dupps, Chairman reported the committee has reviewed the take home
fleet and the need to replace some of the cruisers. He stated the committee is
also reviewing the police salaries. Mr. Dupps advised they missed out on
obtaining a grant to fund a school resource officer, but that Simon Kenton High
School has agreed to finance eight hours per week for this service.
41.   In closing Mr. Dupps stated the next session of the Citizens Police
Academy will begin March 14, 2001 with twenty-five citizens enrolled.
Public Works Committee
42.   No report. Next meeting will be held in April.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
43.   Mayor Kriege stated he would like to postpone discussion of a proposal
for a police/administration facility as he feels more time is needed to study
this matter.
44.   He requested council’s endorsement of the executive orders before them
for individual appointments to various boards.
Executive Order to Appoint Mr. Bushong to the OKI Regional Council of
Governments
45.   Mr. Walker advised it was not necessary to make this appointment by
executive order, as it does not need council approval. Mayor Kriege advised
council that Mr. Bushong agreed to represent the city on the OKI Board.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-03 – Appointing Dwight Myers to the Code
Enforcement/Ethics Board
46.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2001-EO-03
appointing Dwight Myers to the Code Enforcement/Ethics Board. Mr. Moriconi
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-
0 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-04 – Appointing Richard J. Noah to the Code
Enforcement/Ethics Board
47.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2001-EO-04
appointing Richard J. Noah to the Code Enforcement/Ethics Board. Mr. Bushong
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-
0 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-05 – Appointing Robert E. Exeler to the Board of
Adjustment
48.   A motion was made by Mr. Kudera and seconded by Mr. Dupps to approve
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-05 appointing Robert E. Exeler to the Board of
Adjustment. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Adjournment
49.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting was adjourned at 9:05
p.m.
________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MARCH 5, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Kent Allender from Nicholson Christian Church gave the
invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard,
Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance was City
Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the February 5, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular Council
Meeting of February 5, 2001 as submitted. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion.
Roll call was answered with four ayes. Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard chose to
pass, as they were both absent from that meeting. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Oath of Office – New Patrol Officer, Bryan Wells
3.   Mayor Kriege administered the Oath of Office to Bryan Wells. Mayor Kriege
stated Mr. Wells would begin work with the city on March 8, 2001 as a patrol
officer in the Police Department.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Doug Sloan, 795 Cox Road
4.   Mr. Sloan addressed council about the recent zoning violation notice he
has received regarding the vehicles he has parked on his property. He stated he
has been working with Mr. McAllister to meet compliance requirements and
currently has moved the cars to the rear of his property, but according to Mr.
McAllister is still in violation. Mr. Sloan voiced his objection to other
properties throughout the city that have similar violations that have gone
unnoticed by the city. Mr. Sloan also criticized the lack of dog control
enforcement. He reported there are many dogs running at large in his
neighborhood and was concerned about the safety of his child and others.
5.   Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Sloan the council would not be able to solve his
concerns at this meeting but asked that he meet with the City Administrator and
Mr. McAllister to work on a solution. He stated that it sounds as if progress
is being made on his zoning compliance and advised Mr. Sloan to provide the
city with addresses of other properties that are in violation of the zoning
laws so that the owners can be notified.
Bill Miller, 4394 Oliver Road
6.   Mr. Miller addressed council regarding the mention in today’s Kentucky
Post that council would be proposing an increase in taxes. He reminded council
that some of them had voiced opposition to a tax increase at the Candidates
Forum last fall when they were running for office. He stated he would like to
see the city implement a reduction in expenses before resorting to a tax
increase. He expressed concern for the many senior citizens on fixed incomes,
for which a tax increase would be a hardship.
7.   Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Miller that the discussion regarding tax
increases was removed from tonight’s agenda as he would rather hold a couple of
public hearings in April for the sole purpose of discussing this issue. He
stated that residents would be encouraged to present council their thoughts and
suggestions regarding the revenue and expense concerns that are currently
facing the city. He also advised Mr. Miller that the City of Independence has
one of the lowest property tax rates in Northern Kentucky. Mr. Miller stated
that he felt it should not be necessary to raise property tax rates with
twenty-two subdivisions currently under construction.
8.   Mr. Gabbard stated he would not vote for the insurance premium tax, as he
believes the city needs to cut expenses first. He stated if it was necessary to
raise taxes that it should be in a small way, if needed, and only after the
city has tightened its belt.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-01 Enacting a Personnel and Pay Classification Plan
9.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance No. 2001-O-
01 enacting an employee pay and classification plan for the city. Mr. Kudera
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with six ayes; motion carried 6-
0 in favor.
Facility Feasibility Study
10.   Mr. Gabbard requested this agenda item be moved to later in the meeting,
as he has not had the opportunity to review the proposal. Mr. Kudera stated
this document was provided at the January meeting. Mayor Kriege stated there
was very little changed and has the same basic concept and that the proposed
cost is the same as that submitted in January.
11.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Dupps, the agenda was
amended to move the discussion of the facility feasibility study to number four
under new business. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Project Prom Donation – Simon Kenton High School
12.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Ellison, a donation of
$500.00 was approved to Simon Kenton High School’s Project Prom. Roll call was
answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Resolution to Bond the Senior Center
13.   Mayor Kriege presented a resolution that would approve a bond for the
financing of the Senior Center. Mr. Gabbard asked what the amount of the bond
was and requested the amount be included in the resolution. Mayor Kriege stated
it was between $400,000 and $500,000 and would be bonded for a ten-year period.
He advised council of the need to begin the bond process for this project as
construction would begin next week. He advised council the city would not
borrow more than the necessary amount. Mayor Kriege reminded council the CBDG
grant was $270,000 and that the Kenton County Fiscal Court contributed $200,000
for a total of $470,000. He went on to say with the total cost of the
construction awarded for $887,000 that would leave about $410,000 to bond.
14.   Mr. Gabbard reiterated that he felt the exact amount of the bond should
be included in the resolution adopted by council. Mr. Bushong concurred that
council should know the exact amount of this bond. He also asked if there was a
possibility to get the state legislature to release the $200,000 donation for
the amphitheater for transfer of those funds to the Senior Center project.
Mayor Kriege replied that with only four days left in the General Session that
it seemed unlikely.
15.   Mrs. Guenther, Finance Director, advised council that a ten-year loan
would be obtained from the Kentucky League of Cities at an interest rate of
4.18% for approximately $500,000. She advised the city has paid architect fees
which were not payable with the CBDG grant funds. Mayor Kriege stated the
architect fees were paid from budgeted money in the Building Fund. Mrs.
Guenther stated the average annual payment for the bond would be $63,000 as
each year the payment will decrease. Mayor Kriege advised council that the
Danville Bond Pool through the Kentucky League of Cities, by far, had the
lowest interest rate at 4.18% compared to area banks offering a 6% rate.
16.   Mr. Ellison asked when the first bond payment would be due. Mayor Kriege
replied the first payment would be due in June 2001. Mr. Ellison also asked if
the money taken from the Building Fund to pay the architect fees would be
reimbursed to the Building Fund. Mayor Kriege stated that it would not, as that
would just be more money that would have to be borrowed.
17.   Mr. Moriconi stated that he did not want to hold up the project while
waiting on an exact bond amount for the resolution. Mrs. Guenther assured
council the city would not find a lower interest rate than the 4.18%; a
variable rate the city can lock into at any time without a penalty. Mr. Bushong
stated the city should not write an interest rate in the resolution as it is
something we have no control over.
18.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to enter into a contract with the Kentucky
League of Cities to bond the Senior Center for approximately $450,000 at a rate
not to exceed 4.5% for a period of ten years. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion.
Roll call was answered with six yeas. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Application for a Zoning Text Amendment with Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission
19.   Upon recommendation of the Planning & Zoning Committee, Mr. Barbian,
Building Inspector, introduced a proposed zoning text amendment that would
change the wording of the section of the zoning ordinance pertaining to
accessory structures. He stated a recent permit request for an accessory
structure to be placed in a front yard has prompted this amendment as the
current zoning ordinance permits structures in the front yards. Mr. Barbian
reported that the Planning & Zoning Committee feels that allowing accessory
structures in the front yard is aesthetically objectionable. He went on to say
that the committee has met with Mike Schwartz of the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning & Zoning Commission to discuss this re-wording. Mr. Barbian stated
that this text amendment would prohibit accessory structures, such as swimming
pools and storage sheds from being located in front yards. The proposed re-
wording was submitted to council for their approval.
20.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to submit the proposed zoning text amendment
regarding accessory structures to the Northern Kentucky Area Planning & Zoning
Commission for approval. Mr. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with six ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Facility(s) Feasibility Study
21.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to approve that Matrix Architects conduct a
facility(s) feasibility study for $27,000. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. A
brief discussion ensued. Mayor Kriege advised this proposal would include
programming and facility assessment along with the schematics, budget and
schedule. In addition, Dugan & Meyers Construction Co. will provide the
construction, budget and schedule analysis for the project.
22.   Mr. Bushong commented that it was his understanding that a feasibility
study was conducted a few years ago by GBBN Architects and wondered what the
outcome of that study was. Mr. Kudera stated no conclusion came of that study.
Mr. Ellison commented that he felt this allocation of funds would be better
spent elsewhere. Mayor Kriege stated the funds would come from the Building
Fund, not the General Fund. He reminded council there was favorable agreement
to go ahead with a facility(s) review at the Annual Planning Session. Mr.
Ellison stated he has changed his mind.
23.   Roll call on Mr. Gabbard’s motion and Mr. Moriconi’s second was answered
with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Ellison and Mr. Dupps. Motion
carried 4-2 in favor to contract with Matrix Architects for a facilities
feasibility study for $27,000.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister
24.   Mr. McAllister distributed his monthly zoning violation report to council
and a general discussion followed. Mr. Dupps asked Mr. McAllister how he would
step up enforcement this spring. Mr. McAllister replied that he will continue
his current method, but added that he feels the city is in need of a full time
zoning administrator. Mayor Kriege stated the city does not have the funds to
hire a full-time zoning employee. Mr. Gabbard expressed concern of the three
properties on Mr. McAllister’s report that has not tied into the sewer system.
Mr. McAllister advised that the property on Sugar Camp has now tied in.
25.   Mr. Dupps commented that the city is just trying to get the zoning
violations under control so that the community can be a nice place to live. He
also addressed Mr. Sloan’s comments made earlier in the meeting regarding the
dog control matter and advised it is a separate violation from zoning.
26.   Mr. Moriconi asked what is required of an owner of a vacant house other
than keeping the grass cut. Mr. McAllister replied that it is necessary for the
house to be secure so that a safety concern does not exist.
27.   Mr. Gabbard asked what was being done regarding the condition of
disrepair of the Williams’ property across from the City Administration
Building. Mr. Barbian stated the owner of the property has been in a nursing
home for the last several years. He has been working with the social worker at
the nursing home in an effort to get the needed maintenance on the house. Mr.
Gabbard stated the owner had a relative that was handling her affairs. Mr.
Barbian replied the owner’s relative has advised the city he will no longer
assist in this matter.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
28.   Mr. Barbian reported that building permit applications has increased, in
part due to the low interest rates. Mr. Ellison asked Mr. Barbian where the
Clover Ridge Subdivision was. Mr. Barbian replied it is off Senour Road and
that the original name of the subdivision was Valley View, which is being
developed by Henry Fischer. Mr. Ellison expressed concern that this is becoming
a habit with developers and suggested enacting an ordinance so that the city
would be better able to follow these name changes.
City Engineer – Dave Whitacre, Cardinal Engineering
29.   No Report.
Recreation – Nita Brake
30.   Mrs. Brake reported the section of Lakefield Subdivision that has been
designated as a city park has been re-platted so that the city will not own any
part of the lake. She stated she has been meeting with a Drees representative
to review development plans for the park in the Lakefield Subdivision, which
will include water lines. She stated the water lines would be used to install
water fountains, which were originally purchased for Independence Park. She
advised that Drees would be billed directly for the playground equipment, and
then after the park is developed the city will take over the maintenance and
operation.
31.   Mrs. Brake also reported that application was made for the T21 sidewalk
grant, which should be awarded March 15th. She stated the Senior Center
groundbreaking ceremony was held on March 3, 2001 with approximately one
hundred people in attendance.
32.   Mr. Ellison asked when the sidewalk along Memorial Park on Delaware
Crossing would be installed. Mrs. Brake replied that this was being delayed
until after the Senior Center construction is completed.
Police Department – Chief Shawn Butler
33.   Chief Butler reported that last month there were 1393 calls for service,
53 arrests and 152 citations. He advised the department would be locating a
substation in Remke’s, which would provide the officers a satellite office to
complete reports. He stated this site has been provided to the city at no cost
so he felt this was a good opportunity to assess the benefits of this type of
facility.
34.   Chief Butler reported the next session of the Citizens’ Police Academy
would begin next week. He also announced the annual basketball game between the
police officers and the firefighters would be held on March 20, 2001 with the
proceeds going to the Muscular Dystrophy Association.
35.   A member of the audience, Donna Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, asked how the
police department could help with the dog control problem in her neighborhood.
She expressed concern that people refuse to take control of their animals and
follow the law. Chief Butler advised the city contracts with the Dog Authority
of Northern Kentucky who can be summoned by calling the dispatch center. He
stated he would be happy to meet with her to discuss the process.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
36.   Mr. Smith reported so far this year there have been twelve call outs for
snow removal and expressed his appreciation for the successful partnership with
the Kenton County Public Works Department that resulted in the city streets
being clear of ice/snow.
37.   Mr. Ellison requested the Public Works department remove the
miscellaneous signs posted on utility poles throughout the city as time
permits. Mr. Smith stated he would attempt to keep an eye on this type of
blight.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
38.   Chairman, Jim Kudera reported that the committee is currently reviewing
the five-year budget projections as well as the next fiscal years’ budget. He
commented the city is in need of a full time zoning administrator and
additional public works personnel. Mr. Kudera advised that council would need
to look into some type of revenue enhancement or be faced with cutting services
to the residents. He expressed sentiment that it would be necessary to take
action that was viewed as unpopular, but necessary, in order to do the right
thing to keep the city moving forward with the growth.
Building Committee
39.   Chairman, Chris Moriconi, reported the groundbreaking for the Senior
Center was held on Saturday and that construction should begin this week. He
also announced plans to build restroom facilities at Memorial Park with free
labor being provided by volunteers.
Personnel & Administration Committee
40.   Chairman, Jim Bushong announced he had nothing to report. The next
meeting is scheduled for April 10, 2001.
41.   On an unrelated note, Mr. Bushong thanked the audience for attending the
meeting and stated that he is opposed to possible tax increases. He advised
everyone to watch for the announcement of public hearings regarding possible
tax increases and encouraged citizen input at these hearings.
Planning & Zoning Committee
42.   Chairman, Jim Ellison, stated the committee has reviewed the proposed
zoning text amendment regarding accessory structures, as presented by Mr.
Barbian earlier in the meeting. He reported this committee has ordered a new
five-year zoning map to review while working on the Comprehensive Plan Update.
He encouraged citizens to provide input on the Plan.
Public Safety Committee
43.   Chairman, Eric Dupps, reported that the SWAT team members presented their
activity report and decided to eliminate the team and merge with the Northern
Kentucky Unit. He stated the Police Chief felt this unit was difficult to
maintain due to budget constraints. Mr. Ellison asked if it was necessary for
the city to enter into an interlocal agreement to join the Northern Kentucky
SWAT Unit. Chief Butler stated it was not necessary as it is allowed by
statute.
44.   Mr. Dupps advised this committee has rescheduled the March 20 meeting to
March 27 due to a conflict with the police/fire basketball game.
Public Works Committee
45.   Chairman, Ike Gabbard announced he had nothing to report. The next
meeting is scheduled for April 11, 2001.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
46.   Mayor Kriege introduced the city’s new City Administrator, Mark T.
Wendling. He reported that Mr. Wendling has been on the job for two weeks and
is familiarizing himself with the city and operations.
ADJOURNMENT
47.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Gabbard, the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m.
_______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
___________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 2, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike
Gabbard, Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance
was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the March 5, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular Council
Meeting of March 5, 2001 as presented. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
3.   Bill Ahearn, 2032 Mapletree Drive addressed council regarding a zoning
violation at 11513 Madison Pike which abuts his property. He stated this vacant
lot has become a parking area for tractor-trailers. Mr. Ahearn stated that last
fall he spoke to the Zoning Administrator, Rich McAllister about the condition
of this property. Mayor Kriege stated the city would check on the status of
this complaint.
OLD BUSINESS
Bonding of the Senior Center
4.   City Administrator, Mark Wendling, stated he has been in contact with
Nancy Wylie of the Kentucky League of Cities regarding participation in the
Danville Kentucky Municipal League Pooled Lease Financing Program for the
construction of the new Senior Citizens Center. Mayor Kriege advised the city
would collaborate with bond counsel and reintroduce this matter at next month’s
meeting.
Flag Memorial
5.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Greg Bridges. Mr. Bridges presented a proposal
for a flag memorial, which he would like to erect in memory of his father,
Wayne Bridges, who recently passed away. He stated he would assume the cost of
construction, with the exception of the flag and flagpole. He suggested the
flag memorial be temporarily installed at the present city building, but in the
event the city building is re-located, asked that the flag memorial also be
relocated. Mr. Bridges distributed a drawing plan of the proposed flag memorial
for the council members to review. Mr. Wendling stated that approximate costs
that the city would incur would be a twenty-foot pole ($165.), 4x6 flag ($42.),
installation of an electric line from the city building to the flag memorial
($1,000.) and the cost of a light to shine on the flag at night.
6.   A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Moriconi asked what the time frame was for
the construction. Mr. Bridges stated sixty days. Mayor Kriege stated that he
would like to see the flag memorial construction in time to plan a Memorial Day
ceremony. Mayor Kriege agreed that the flag memorial should be moved if the
city building would move. Mr. Wendling suggested the relocation of the flag
memorial could be added as an alternate bid if the city constructs a new
facility. Mr. Ellison suggested this flag memorial be construction on the
vacant lot across from the courthouse or at the new Senior Building in Memorial
Park, and then it would not be necessary to relocate it in the future. Mayor
Kriege stated he thought a flag memorial would be a nice feature in the
downtown area since the city building currently does not have a flag. Mr.
Ellison stated that he felt it would be more appropriate to have a flag
memorial at Memorial Park. Mr. Dupps concurred with Mr. Ellison and suggested
the construction of a flag memorial at the Park would be a better option. Mayor
Kriege stated he felt this would delay the project. Mr. Kudera was concerned
that electricity would not be available for the flagpole at Memorial Park until
the construction of the Senior Center was complete. Ms. Brake advised conduits
are already in place in the parking lot area of the park.
7.   Mr. Gabbard asked Mr. Bridges what he would like to do. Mr. Gabbard stated
that he feels the city is beholden to Wayne Bridges, who served as city
attorney for seventeen years and added that he does not object to placing the
flag memorial at Memorial Park. He suggested Mr. Bridges look at the park area
for a possible location. Mr. Bridges agreed to do that. In keeping with the
Renaissance Program, Mr. Moriconi stated he thought it would be nice for the
flag memorial to be located in the downtown area.
8.   Mr. Bridges stated that he felt Mr. Ellison had a valid point, as Memorial
Park will attract more people. Mr. Bushong stated other cities have constructed
flag memorials that included memorial bricks. He asked Mr. Bridges if he wanted
this flag memorial to be an exclusive memorial to his father. Mr. Bridges
stated that since he is providing the funding that he would like it to be
exclusive. He stated that it would cost $3,000 to $5,000 to construct a 24”
tall bronze plaque memorial to his father. Mayor Kriege suggested other sites
be considered and then council can make a determination at a future meeting.
Resolution No. 2001-R-01 – Renaissance Kentucky Direct Appropriation Proposal
Application
9.   Mayor Kriege presented a resolution to council that would support the
application for Direct Appropriation Grant Funds for $5,000 to purchase
computer equipment, a digital camera, educational training, tours and reference
materials for the Renaissance Committee. Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2001-R-
01.
10.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Kudera Resolution No. 2001-R-
01 was approved. Roll all was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in
favor.
Resolution No. 2001-R-02 – Approving Payment of Monthly CDBG Expenses for the
Senior Center
11.   Mayor Kriege presented a resolution to draw down CDBG funds for
$15,660.00 for Invoice #1 from Mark Spaulding Construction Company. Mr. Walker
read Resolution No. 2001-R-02.
12.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Moriconi Resolution No.
2001-R-02 was approved. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-
0 in favor.
NEW BUSINESS
13.   Mr. Gabbard asked that a more up to date general ledger report be
provided to council. Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Gabbard that because the council
meetings often fall within the first week of the month it is impossible for the
Finance Director to close out the books before the meeting.
14.   Mr. Gabbard also questioned why the city has four different
telecommunication companies as he noted on the check register report. He asked
if it would not be cheaper to contract with one company for these services.
Chief Shawn Butler stated he is in the process of switching companies and some
of the contracts will expire soon. He advised that he tries to get the best
contract he can for the city.
City Administrator Report – Mark T. Wendling
15.   Mr. Wendling stated the construction of the Senior Center at Memorial
Park is underway. The footers would be poured this week with the completion
date set for August. He also advised the Amphitheatre will be bid out soon with
plans to begin construction this summer.
City Engineer – Dave Whitacre
16.   Mr. Whitacre advised he met with Jeff Smith and Mark Wendling to review
the street projects for this year. He stated that the Public Works Department
would be handling the pothole maintenance. He stated that budget constraints
were taken into consideration and that funds will be reserved for possible
emergency repairs. The streets needing major repairs include Adahi, Rickey Lane
and Roselawn Drive. He stated these streets are in bad condition and need
repair and/or replacement of curbs. Mr. Whitacre stated the repair for these
streets would be bid out, possibly as soon as next month.
17.   Mr. Whitacre stated that other projects include Holten Drive. He stated
that in order to install a turn lane, procurement of additional right of way
land will be necessary
18.   A brief discussion ensued regarding asphalt versus concrete streets. Mr.
Whitacre stated they were satisfied with the work done by the concrete
contractor last year although there was some problem with the concrete. They
will get a sample testing of the concrete this year. Mr. Whitacre advised that
concrete repairs are generally more disruptive than asphalt. Mr. Ellison
suggested the city might want to adopt a standard type street pavement.
19.   Mr. Gabbard expressed concern regarding the old Richardson Road Bridge
that has an eight-ton limit. He stated that Rumpke’s sanitation trucks weigh
more than eight tons and was concerned about the city’s liability. He wondered
when the bridge was last inspected. Mayor Kriege stated the county might
inspect this. Mr. Whitacre advised that bridge repairs would be costly and that
the city may want to look at other access as an option. Mayor Kriege asked Mr.
Whitacre to advise the city in writing.
20.   Mr. Moriconi asked whom the city should speak with regarding the
condition of Shaw Road. He would like to know when the blacktop work would be
done. Mayor Kriege stated the Northern Kentucky Water District installed water
lines and as a result, the road is in need of resurfacing. He asked the city
administrator to look into this matter.
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister
21.   The Zoning Administrator’s report was distributed. Mayor Kriege stated he
was unable to attend tonight due to a family matter.
22.   Mr. Ellison expressed concern regarding sidewalk inspections at the
Liberty Orchard Subdivision. He stated they should be ADA accessible. Building
Inspector, Mr. Barbian stated he has placed a call regarding this matter and
has not received a response yet. He will pursue the matter.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
23.   Mr. Barbian reported that Fifth Third Bank, Courthouse Restaurant and the
Senior Center have all started construction. He reported that the single-family
residence building permits have increased drastically the past month.
24.   Mr. Bushong asked Mr. Barbian what was going into the store next to
Hometown Pizza. Mr. Barbian stated that Huber & Behle have obtained a permit
for a small office front store for their business.
25.   Mr. Ellison asked for an update on the vacant property on Far Hills
Drive. Mr. Barbian replied that the property has been sold and the new owners
will raze the oldest structure, begin general clean up and complete the new
single-family house that has been sitting idle. He advised the city had the
property secured for safety and cleaned up last fall. Mr. Ellison stated that
it is a mess again.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
26.   Mr. Smith reported the city is in receipt of $7,340.00 from two
developers, The Scheben Group and Hoppenjans Development Inc. He stated these
funds were voluntary contributions to assist the city in the concrete
reconstruction of street sections in the Liberty Orchard and Battleridge
Subdivisions. He stated these streets had deteriorated more rapidly than is
considered normal and he had discussed this reimbursement with the developers.
27.   Mr. Ellison reported that the Public Works Department removed thirty-
seven signs placed in the right of way along Madison Pike from the Harvest Hill
Subdivision to Shaw Road. Mr. Ellison commended Mr. Smith for removing this
blight.
28.   Mr. Gabbard asked when the grass cutting would go out for bid. Mr. Smith
stated the current contract did not expire until June 30 and that the city
would advertise for bids next month.
29.   Mr. Gabbard addressed the matter of re-opening the old section of
Richardson Road at Madison Pike. He stated the intersection looks terrible, has
become overgrown and, in general has deteriorated. Another area that has
deteriorated is the Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road intersection. Mr. Smith
stated he contacted the state highway last year in an effort to get them to
clean up the area. He stated he would contact them again and if they do not
clean it up he will do it.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
30.   Mrs. Brake reported she has received confirmation from the Department of
Local Government that the TEA 21 sidewalk application has made it through the
state-clearing house with recommendation for approval. She stated this is very
encouraging; a good sign that the city might be awarded the grant.
31.   Mrs. Brake also reported she is looking into establishing a Farmers’
Market. She attended a workshop at the Boone County Extension Center. She feels
there is considerable interest for this and hopes to start the market this year
on Sundays. Mr. Dupps asked if she would work with the Kenton County Extension
Center on this and she replied that she would. She stated that the Kenton
County Extension Center does not have a Farmers’ Market so this will be the
only in Kenton County but farmers from all counties will be invited to
participate.
32.   In closing, Mrs. Brake reported the football field at Memorial Park is
undergoing renovations by Team All Sports.
Police Department – Chief Shawn Butler
33.   Chief Butler reported that last month his department answered 1345 calls
for service, made 52 arrests and issued 171 citations. He stated the department
also participated in the Drink-n-Drive and Drivers Education programs at Simon
Kenton High School.
34.   Chief Butler stated that the charity basketball game between the city and
Fire District raised $1,700, an increase of $300 from last year. He also
reported the Citizens Police Academy is in progress with graduation ceremonies
planned for May 9. He stated a golf outing is being planned for August 29th to
help fund the DARE Program.
35.   Mr. Ellison questioned expenses on the check register totaling $7,696.
Chief Butler explained this expense was for mobile vision units, which were
purchased from the state contracts. He stated that it is his goal to have one
unit per cruiser, but cost is a factor at $4,000 per unit. He stated that the
city would be reimbursed some of this expense. He stated the mobile vision
units are a great tool for DUI and citizen complaints as they can be used as
evidence. He stated the department currently has two and it will take several
years to phase in this type of equipment.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget Committee
36.   Mayor Kriege announced the next Budget Committee meeting would be held on
April 9, 2001 at 7:00 p.m.
Building Committee
37.   Mr. Moriconi reported the committee is reviewing plans to construct
restroom facilities at Memorial Park. He stated that Bob Becker of the
Independence Recreation Commission is compiling a list of volunteer workers and
cost estimates to build this facility.
Personnel Committee
38.   Mr. Bushong advised the committee meeting has been rescheduled for May 2,
2001 at 7:00 p.m.
Planning & Zoning Committee
39.   Mr. Ellison reported the committee met with a resident on Oby Drive
regarding some vacant land that abuts his property that he is interested in
acquiring. The resident thought the land was owned by the city but after
reviewing this the committee is sure, a developer owns the land. He stated they
would review the status next month.
Public Safety Committee
40.   Mr. Dupps stated the committee was looking into a $125,000 grant over a
three-year period that would underwrite a school resource officer and possibly
a DARE officer. The committee is also exploring a COPS MORE grant for $146,000
of which $36,000 would have to be matched by the city. He stated this grant
could fund additional mobile data units for the cruisers.
41.   He stated the committee also was reviewing the current dispatching
arrangement with the county. They will be exploring the possibility of
contracting with the City of Erlanger for this service, which would be a cost
savings for the city. Mr. Dupps advised the next meeting is scheduled for April
17, 2001 at 5:30 p.m.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
42.   Mayor Kriege announced that the South Kenton Ministerial Association
would conduct an Easter Sunday Sunrise Service at 6:30 a.m. at Memorial Park on
April 15, 2001. He stated the service would last for approximately one-half
hour.
Adjournment
43.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Bushong, the meeting was
closed. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting was adjourned at 8:17 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 16, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Jim Bushong,
Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered
roll call. Also in attendance was City Attorney, Jeffrey S. Smith and City
Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   Bonding and other related matters of the Senior Center
∙   The proposed budget for fiscal year 2001/02
Discussion of Senior Center Bonding and Related Documents
3.   Mayor Kriege stated that council was provided with several documents
relating to the bonding of the Senior Center and advised, that while he is not
ready to take action on this matter, he opened the floor for the council
members to ask questions regarding the documents. He stated he was aware of the
incorrect bond amount and advised that would be corrected.
4.   Mr. Gabbard stated that he had many of questions. Some of his concerns
included specific wording in several Sections of the Purchase Agreement under
Exhibits D, E, G and I. He stated he would also like to know the fees the city
would incur for the bond counsel. Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Gabbard to submit
his list of questions in writing before the next regular council meeting (5-7-
01) so that the bond counselor (William Skees) could prepare written answers.
He also advised that Mr. Skees would attend the May meeting to answer
additional questions council may have. Mr. Gabbard also suggested that variable
interest rate language is needed in the document. City Attorney, Jeffrey S.
Smith concurred with Mayor Kriege that any questions should be submitted to Mr.
Skees in writing prior to the meeting so that Mr. Skees has time to prepare a
response. Mr. Gabbard agreed to have his questions written down.
Mayor’s Budget Address and Proposal for F/Y 2001-02
5.   Mayor Kriege presented council with the annual proposed budget and budget
message for fiscal year 2001-02 (July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2002). The Mayor
reviewed the highlights of the General Fund Revenues and Expenditures for the
coming year.
6.   He stated the estimated revenues are $3,141,550, based on the assumption
that council will adopt a compensating plus 4% property tax rate ordinance and
projecting the city will collect an additional 5% in payroll/gross receipts
taxes. He stated that preliminary calculations show estimated revenue of
$901,000 if the compensating rate is adopted or $930,000 if the compensating
rate plus 4% is adopted. He requested council keep that in mind as they move
forward through the budget process. He stated an anticipated loss of $113,000
in police revenues is due to the conclusion of the Universal Hiring Program and
DARE grants.
7.   Mayor Kriege advised that the general fund expenditures are estimated at
$3,315,341.00. He stated this figure is a slight decrease from the current
(2000-01) budget. He stated he is requesting no additions in personnel for the
coming year. He stated that health insurance quotes that were originally
forecast for twenty-one percent could be held at only a four percent increase
with slight adjustments to the current plan. He went on to say that the staff
continues to look at additional plan options and estimates. He stated that
previously discussed expenses’ regarding a municipal building has been deferred
to the 2002-03 fiscal year budget. Staff has requested two computers and a
computer form printer for the tax bills.
8.   Regarding the police section of the proposed budget, Mayor Kriege stated
the same cost containment applies regarding the health insurance expenses. He
advised no additional personnel is being requested for this department. Mayor
Kriege stated it has been recommended to eliminate the horse patrol program. He
reported the most significant expense would be for ten new cruisers to replace
four aging vehicles and six vehicles that have leases that will expire at the
end of this calendar year. With the newer vehicles, it is expected that
maintenance expenses will decrease.
9.   Mayor Kriege advised the Public Works Department would incur a very small
overall increase from the current year’s budget, as no additional personnel,
facility or major equipment purchase will be realized.
10.   Mayor Kriege stated the miscellaneous expenditures would include
transfers from the General Fund to the Municipal Road Aid Fund to cover road
repairs. In addition, there will be a General Fund Transfer to the Senior
Center Fund to cover the building and loan costs.
11.   Mayor Kriege stated the Recreation budget shows a drastic reduction in
capital outlay from $170,188 to $24,100 with operational expenses showing a
slight increase.
12.   He reported the General Fund Estimated Fund Balance at 2001-02 year end
is $1,364,084.00, which is much better than anticipated, as shown in the
projections due to some unexpected receipt of revenues coming in, and some
recent scaling-down.
13.   Mayor Kriege reported the anticipated revenues and expenditures for the
various funds, which include Municipal Road Aid, Sewer, Building, Senior Center
and the Fowler Creek Sewer. He stated he is recommending a total expenditure of
$750,135 in the Road Fund, which will be accomplished with a general fund
transfer of $312,603.00. He stated he will continue to be aggressive with the
upkeep of the roads. He reported that no transfer of monies was expected from
the Sewer Fund into the Fowler Creek Debt with an anticipated year-end balance
of $1,016,925.00.
14.   Regarding the Building Fund, Mayor Kriege advised that the revenues are
estimated at $208,000 with $371,191 in expenses. He stated this would include
$253,000 for the construction of the amphitheatre in Memorial Park, which is
partially funded by the State of Kentucky ($200,000). He stated a budget of
$118,191 is included but not anticipated to be spent and may be used in the
development of plans for a future Municipal Building. The Senior Center Fund
revenues are estimated at $523,500 and expenditures at $623,500. He stated a
10% contingency for construction of the Senior Center has been included.
15.   Lastly, the Fowler Creek Sewer Fund revenues are estimated at $322,000
with expenses estimated at $405,400.00. He explained that the expenditure is
for paying off the bonding of the sewer project.
16.   In closing, Mayor Kriege stated that he presented this proposed budget to
council for their consideration with trust that they would find it to be both
reasonable and workable. He stated a proposed ordinance has been included in
the packet for a first reading, but that it was not necessary to do at this
time, but was included as an option if council chose to proceed with the
adoption of the budget as presented. He opened the floor for questions from
council.
Discussion of the Proposed Budget for Fiscal Year 2001-02
17.   Mr. Gabbard stated he would prefer to delay the first reading of the
ordinance until the May 7th council meeting. He had questions regarding the
revenue, principal payment of the bond and the GRW Study expenses from the
Fowler Creek Sewer Fund. Finance Director, Amy Guenther advised the GRW Study
expense was paid out of the General Sewer Fund not the Fowler Creek Fund. She
stated that last year money was transferred from the general sewer into the
Fowler Creek Fund as the revenue was low at the time, but that the excess funds
can be transferred back. Ms. Guenther also advised the tap-in fee revenues were
conservatively estimated, but came in higher.
18.   Mr. Bushong asked how the ten percent contingency was determined for the
Senior Center Fund. Mayor Kriege replied it was ten percent of the construction
costs ($880,000) and that this contingency will be used for additional costs
due to engineering change orders. He stated that change orders will be
presented to council for approval.
19.   Mr. Gabbard asked how the funds were saved in this budget. Mayor Kriege
stated that if you look at the amended budget there are several areas that came
in lower than expected while there was a considerable increase in the payroll/
gross receipts tax revenue. The delay of the expenditure of a municipal
building has also controlled costs. Additionally, Ms. Guenther stated the city
has realized more interest income and there was savings on personnel while the
city was without a city administrator for several months. Mayor Kriege stated
there is a better depiction now than two months ago, but advised there is no
fat in this proposed budget and the city still maintains a $170,000 deficit. He
stated that many major expenditures, such as facilities for police/
administration and public works have been postponed and that the police
department is losing thousands of dollars in grant money. He stated that he
trusts the commercial growth revenue will continue to help offset these losses.
20.   Mr. Gabbard expressed concern over the city attorney contract fees. He
stated that he felt the city should contract to pay no more than $50,000-
$60,000 per year and that the contract should include all services. City
Attorney, Mr. Smith responded by stating one cannot predict the amount of
services or time that lawsuits will take. He stated that litigation takes an
inordinate amount of work and time and the court system cannot be controlled.
Mr. Kudera concurred with Mr. Gabbard that the city has spent an extraordinary
amount of money in legal fees. In addition, he went on to say that he believes
some of the frivolous expenses are the responsibility of some of the council.
Mr. Kudera stated that council could not fault the attorney’s for billing the
city for services they have provided. Mayor Kriege stated the attorney expenses
decreased from $104,000 to $77,000 last year. Mr. Gabbard reiterated that
paying $75,000 to $100,000 per year was excessive and he felt this was an area
of the budget that could be controlled. Mr. Dupps stated that he felt the city
received very good legal counsel on the AT&T cell tower matter and that the
money was well spent. Mr. Gabbard stated he felt there are good attorney’s that
are qualified that will work with the city for a lower fee. Mr. Dupps commented
there are a lot of qualified attorneys but not that many that are good. Mr.
Smith interjected that Frost, Brown Todd is on a $4,000 per month retainer fee,
so that any costs incurred over that is for representation that goes beyond
what is considered routine. Mr. Gabbard stood firm that he felt this was an
area where the city could save $15,000-$25,000 per year.
21.   Mayor Kriege commented that he felt Mr. Walker and Mr. Smith have
provided the city with good legal representation, however if the majority of
council wanted to solicit a law firm that would provide services for $60,000
per year or less, then he would consider their request.
22.   Mr. Kudera commended Mayor Kriege for presenting a very strict budget,
however expressed concern that it was a not a budget that was representative of
a growing city. He expressed concern that the city has a police department
without permanent housing, and a public works department without a way to
operate. He stated that the property taxes represent only 28% of the city’s
revenue, tangible 7%, payroll/gross receipts tax 43% and the other revenues in
various small numbers. He noted that the 2000 census indicates the city has
increased in population by 43.5 %. Mr. Kudera also reported the property tax
rate has decrease 93% over the last 12 years from .2909/$100 of assessed value
in 1988 to .155/$100 in 2000. He stated that this council needs to take a hard
look at the numbers and regardless of whether or not “no new taxes” was a
campaign promise it is foolish to say the city should not be spending more. He
commented that a business would not stay in business very long if it did not
have projections for revenue increases. He stated this city has not had the
backbone and fortitude to meet what it should; the city has not even taken the
compensating plus four percent tax rate in the last few years. Mr. Kudera went
on to say that the home values in the city have increased largely because the
city has made investments in the community, which does not come free. He stated
the city cannot provide services for free, and fears the city cannot afford a
Senior Center or a Police Department. He expressed concern that the police
department is already stretched to capacity as the city continues to operate as
it was ten years ago.
23.   Mayor Kriege commented that the citizens in Independence do not move out
of this city because of the low tax rate. Mr. Kudera concurred that
Independence has one of the lowest property tax rates in Northern Kentucky. A
member of the audience stated that the Kenton County Property Valuation
Assessor’s office has mailed re-assessment notices to many of the Independence
residents that will be effective this year and he asked how much revenue this
would generate for the city. Mayor Kriege informed the audience that the
compensating rate goes down when the property values increase. Ms. Guenther
stated it should be about $60,000.00.
24.   Mr. Moriconi asked when was the last year that the property tax rate was
increased. Mr. Kudera replied that from 1997 the rate went from .1539 to .160
in 1998. Mr. Gabbard stated that rate may have been calculated incorrectly. Mr.
Kudera expressed concern that the city is standing still and seems content to
remain status quo despite the population boom. He reiterated the city does not
have adequate police facilities or public work facilities, and that road funds
have been held back for the last two years and by doing this have made the
numbers look good. Mr. Kudera stated that he is not advocating a tax rate but
rather taking a stand on facing the issues at hand and urged the council to
face the facts.
25.   Mayor Kriege stated he presented a very stagnant budget; no additional
personnel or capital outlay expenses. He stated the city has many needs. The
Public Works department does not have a facility. The police department
currently rents space on the second floor of the Kenton County Courthouse but
the county has asked the city to find another facility, as the county needs to
reclaim the space. He stated that the preliminary projections looks somewhat
optimistic, but it is not a rosy picture as the city will loose $200,000 in
grant revenues and the city will have to find a way to replace that money
somehow. Mayor Kriege stated the city may be able to get through one more year
without additional revenue.
26.   Mr. Gabbard stated that one of the duties of this elected body is to
decide on how the taxpayer’s money will be spent. He agreed that the Mayor has
presented a reasonable budget, with the exception of a couple of items. He
commented that from 1998 through last year the budget has increased over a
million dollars. He knows there were extra police officers added and other
things but he feels the city has lost many things, most notably the sewer
system that was relinquished to the Sanitation District. He stated that the
sewer lines were used as collateral for the original construction loan and that
turning them over to the Sanitation District cost the city much needed revenue.
He reported the city currently receives from the Sanitation District $300 for
each new sewer tap in and will continue to collect that revenue until 2008, at
which time this revenue will cease. In addition, he expressed concern that the
city would be encumbered with paying off a $10M debt for sewer lines that
belong to the Sanitation District. A lengthy debate ensued regarding the Fowler
Creek Sewer System.
27.   Mr. Kudera stated that if the city continues to dwell on the past it
would hinder any chance of building on the future. Mr. Gabbard stated that it
is of major importance to keep the taxes down. Mayor Kriege reminded Mr.
Gabbard that during his term as mayor, it was noted in the council minutes that
he suggested adopting the insurance premium tax in his budget message to the
council. Mr. Gabbard stated he does not recall proposing that tax.
28.   Mr. Kudera urged council to seriously consider the insurance premium tax
as a way to generate additional revenue for the city. He expressed concern that
the city may be faced with the loss of police personnel if we only provide four
percent annual increases and then take away a portion of that increase by
approving a higher payroll tax deduction. Mayor Kriege concurred and shared his
concern in finding a solution to the impending deficit. He encouraged council
to put forth possible solutions. Mr. Gabbard stated that one of the options
discussed at the annual Planning Session was the road tax and wondered the
status of that idea. Mayor Kriege stated it is up to a council member to
introduce that legislation before the body.
29.   Mr. Moriconi favorably acknowledged Mayor Kriege’s efforts in presenting
a budget that was noticeably trimmed.
30.   At this time, a discussion ensued about the property tax rate. Mayor
Kriege explained that the rate adopted each year by council is limited by state
statute. He went on to explain that the additional revenue generated by the
increased housing boom is not keeping pace with the increase in population. Mr.
Kudera added that the city has not been able to increase services. Mr. Gabbard
stated that personnel have increased over the last few years. Mr. Kudera
replied that the reserves have been dwindling because of these added expenses.
Chief Butler explained his staffing needs; the police officer per capita, in
order to provide adequate public safety services to the growing population.
31.   Mrs. Barb Gabbard, a member of the audience shared her thoughts on the
matter of increasing taxes. She expressed concern that the city can only
develop so fast and only at a rate that the residents can afford to pay.
32.   Once again, Mr. Kudera espoused the need to support some type of revenue
enhancement. He stated the city could not continue to suspend the city’s needs
indefinitely. Mr. Kudera expressed concern that once the city started to play
“catch up” that it would take years to do so.
33.   Mr. Ellison advised council that in 1990 the “reserve fund” was going to
the bank to obtain a loan. He stated that he did not feel it was necessary to
increases taxes just yet and the city did not need to move at an increased
pace. Mr. Ellison recounted the growth of Independence over the last decade. He
stated the city was relieved of the expense of the fire department when they
became a Fire District thereby becoming its’ own taxing authority. In addition,
he stated there has been many services consolidated between the city and county
and that has resulted in cost-savings for the city. He acknowledged the city
has had its hands full with major expenses such as street repairs/improvements,
increased police personnel and paying off the sewer debt for a sewer system the
city was forced to build. He also recognized that Mayor Kriege has proposed a
‘barebones’ budget and that the city is growing by leaps and bounds. But Mr.
Ellison was still not convinced of the need to increase taxes.
34.   Mr. Kudera replied that he would make no apologies and could not, in good
conscience, agree to provide less city services in order to hold tax increases
at bay.
Brief Recess
35.   At 8:37 p.m., upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Moriconi a
brief recess was called. Motion carried with all ayes.
36.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Gabbard, the regular meeting
resumed. Motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion of Proposed Budget for the 2001-02 Fiscal Year
37.   Mr. Gabbard suggested putting an additional $10,000-$15,000 in the budget
for city engineer expenses. He stated that he feels it would be well spent to
have the city engineers oversee the new streets in the subdivisions so that
they are built to regulations. He stated he feels the street maintenance
expenses have increased because the new streets are deteriorating since the
engineers ceased regular inspections.
38.   Mr. Gabbard also suggested doing a complete overhaul on a few of the
older cruisers in the police fleet, thereby saving the cost of complete
replacement. Chief Butler advised that a complete overhaul would cost as much
as $15,000. He stated that for another $5,000 the city could purchase a new
vehicle and as a result be able to finance the purchase. Unlike a complete
overhaul which would have to be paid in full at the time of service.
39.   Mr. Gabbard questioned the need for seasonal employees for the Public
Works Department. Mr. Smith stated the additional labor was needed for summer
street repairs.
40.   Mr. Gabbard questioned the $50,000 allocation for storm sewers. He
suggested cutting that amount by $10,000 and putting it into the engineer fees
for streets. A brief discussion ensued regarding new street inspections. Mr.
Ellison stated that the Independence Pointe Subdivision has had problems this
year. He also advised that the Northern Kentucky Area Planning & Zoning
Commission does not have enough inspectors to perform these inspections for the
concrete streets.
41.   Mr. Moriconi asked about the rent paid for the police department. Chief
Butler stated the city pays less than $1,000 per month for 1600 square feet of
space. He also commented that the county did not charge rent for the first two
years the department occupied the space.
42.   Mr. Ellison commented that the budget presented shows all departments
have made cutbacks, most notably the Public Works and Parks.
Mayor’s Closing Remarks
43.   In closing, Mayor Kriege advised the budget should be adopted by June. He
stated he would plan public hearings to discuss projections for future years.
Meanwhile, he asked council to stay focused on the budget presented. He
commented that budget concerns were presented at the Annual Planning Session
and applauded Mrs. Guenther for doing a great job compiling past years
financial data. He stated this would be very helpful to council as they strive
to make the right decisions for the city.
Adjournment
44.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Ellison, the meeting was
closed. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 9:07 p.m.
_______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MAY 1, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. Jim Bushong,
Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered
roll call. Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker, City
Administrator, Mark T. Wendling and special counsel for the city’s insurance
company, Mr. James M. Burd of Whonsetler & Associates.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was to
discuss pending litigation.
Executive Session
3.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to enter into executive session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (1) (c). to discuss pending litigation. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. Mr. Gabbard asked Mayor Kriege what pending litigation matter was to be
discussed. Mayor Kriege stated Ed Porter versus the City of Independence.
Motion carried with all ayes.
4.   Upon motion by Mr. Moriconi and second by Mr. Ellison, the regular session
of the meeting resumed. Motion carried with all ayes.
Ed Porter vs. the City of Independence Lawsuit
5.   Mr. Walker requested the council members keep the terms of the settlement
of this lawsuit confidential. All council members agreed to not disclose the
terms of the agreement except Mr. Gabbard.
6.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to approve the tentative settlement that has
been agreed upon by Mr. Porter and the insurance company less the $5,000 policy
deductible to be paid by the city. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion
carried 5-1 in favor.
Adjournment
7.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps, the meeting was closed.
Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 7:40 p.m.
______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
NOTE: Upon unanimous vote at the Regular Council Meeting of June 4, 2001 it was
approved to amend the minutes of the Special Council Meeting on May 1, 2001 to
insert paragraph five.
MAY 7, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike
Gabbard, Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance
was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
OLD BUSINESS
Bond Counselor, Bill Skees Regarding the Bonding of the Senior Center Building
2.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Bill Skees a bond attorney with Frost Brown
Todd who would discuss and answer any questions regarding the proposed
resolutions and related documents for the bonding of the Senior Center
building. Mr. Skees gave a presentation and overview of the bonding process. He
stated that various options were discussed with Mayor Kriege regarding
obtaining a bond with a bank versus the bonding pools of Mayfield or Danville
offered through the Kentucky League of Cities (KLC). Mr. Skees advised that the
Danville pool is the most inexpensive in today’s market. He stated that to
become a part of the program it would be necessary for the city to enter into
an interlocal agreement with KLC. He stated that KLC would charge a .25%
administrative fee. He stated that the interest rate will vary but at this
time, the rate is currently very low at 4.18%. He stated that a major bank must
provide backing, so PNC Bank will provide this service. He advised council that
his role is to ensure that KLC properly executes this bonding.
3.   Mr. Dupps asked what other cities have entered the KLC bonding pools. Mr.
Skees replied that among others, the cities of Elizabethtown, Florence, Hazard,
Glasgow and Bowling Green have used this bond pool. He went on to say that the
City of Danville has repaid the up front costs, so that no dollars will be
taken out of our initial cost and that the cost of issuance will be very low.
He advised that as part of the financing it will be necessary to deed part over
but, that it will come back to the city when it is paid off.
4.   Mr. Bushong expressed some concern at deeding city property over. Mr.
Skees assured Mr. Bushong that this is a common procedure. Mr. Gabbard stated
that nowhere in the documents does it state that the bond will be for ten years
nor that the interest rate will start at 4.18%. Mr. Skees advised that the
amortization schedule will not be prepared until a day or two before the
closing as the interest rate will be set that week. He advised council they
could impose condition parameters for the Mayor. Mr. Bushong questioned who
would maintain the lease for the Senior Center. Mr. Skees advised the lease
agreement would be with the city, as the city would indemnify the Senior Center
building.
Resolution No. 2001-R-03 – Authorizing Interlocal Agreement with KLC Funding
Trust Program for the Senior Center
5.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to read, in summary, Resolution No. 2001-R-03
authorizing the Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement with the Kentucky
League of Cities Funding Trust Program for the Senior Center. Mr. Kudera
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-
0 in favor and Mr. Walker read the resolution.
Resolution No. 2001-R-04 – Authorizing Participation in the Kentucky Municipal
League Pooled Lease Program for the Bonding of the Senior Center
6.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to read Resolution No. 2001-R-04 authorizing the
Mayor execute the necessary documents to participate in the Kentucky Municipal
League Pooled Lease Program for the Senior Center for a length not to exceed
ten years with an interest rate for no more than 4.5%. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor and
Mr. Walker read the resolution.
Approval of the Minutes of the April 2, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
7.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular Council
Meeting of April 2, 2001 as presented. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call
was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the April 16, 2001 Special Council Meeting
8.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the minutes of the Special council
meeting of April 16, 2001 as amended. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 1, 2001 Special Council Meeting
9.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the minutes of the Special council
meeting of May 1, 2001 as amended by adding Mr. James Burd, attorney for
Whonsetler & Associates to the list of those in attendance. Mr. Bushong
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-
0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
10.   Mr. Tom Brinker, 1192 Constitution Drive addressed council regarding the
vacant land at the entrance to the Independence Pointe Subdivision owned by
Finke Development Company. He gave a brief history of the efforts made over the
past year to compel Mr. Finke to comply with the city’s zoning ordinance
regarding the lawn maintenance of property owners. He stated he has begun to
lose faith in the system as he feels the city has not enforced the zoning laws
by not citing Mr. Finke for non-compliance. City Administrator, Mr. Wendling
advised council that the grass had been cut this past weekend but suggested
that council may want to amend the present zoning code to add a specific grass
height because the current code does not define what height is considered to be
too high. Mr. Wendling assured Mr. Brinker that he is looking into this matter
further and asked for his continued patience.
11.   Mr. Gabbard suggested an ordinance that includes penalties be drafted to
remedy this type of blight problem. Mr. Wendling stated he is researching such
an ordinance. Mr. Walker advised that care be taken when defining what is a
nuisance and where it is to be applied. He also advised when changing a zoning
code that it would first be necessary to get approval from the Kenton County
and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission before council approval. He stated
that amending the zoning code is the best place for long-term enforcement but
that taking it to the Planning and Zoning Commission will add more time to the
process. Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Brinker that the city would continue to
pursue this matter with Mr. Finke until a text amendment is made. In closing,
Mr. Brinker advised that he has filed a complaint against Finke Development
Company with the Better Business Bureau and the Home Builders Association.
12.   Dan Piersall, 522 Upton Drive, Mike Nolan, 548 Upton Drive, Peggy
Bradley, 5414 Cody Road and Linda McHargue, 5408 Cody Road addressed council
regarding their desire to have water lines run to their homes.
13.   Mr. Piersall stated that Upton Drive adjoins the new Troopers Crossing
Subdivision that is being developed by Berling. He stated that he and some of
the other residents have approached the developer about extending the
subdivision’s water lines to the residents on Upton Drive and the few houses on
Cody Road in that area. He stated they have also spoken to Mr. Richard Harrison
at the Northern Kentucky Water District and was advised that preliminary
estimates reveal it would be about $12,000 per house to extend water lines.
Mayor Kriege advised it might be possible to obtain a grant through the state
but the residents would need to be in agreement to petition for one. Mr.
Piersall also complained of the dust in the construction area and the effect it
is having on the resident’s cisterns. He asked for the city’s assistance in
requiring the contractors to water down the dust.
14.   Mr. Ellison stated that he has looked at the area and senses the
residents would just like to have water lines complete the loop from the cul de
sac to Upton Drive.
15.   Mr. Nolan advised council that he has lived in Independence for thirty
years and has never had to have his cistern cleaned until this year, due to the
construction dust from Troopers Crossing. He stated he is also concerned
because there are fewer water haulers to purchase water from and the prices
have increased from $20 to $25 per load. He stated he would like council to
encourage the developers to run water lines to the homes on Upton Drive and
Cody Road. He feels the residents will not be successful without the city’s
assistance.
16.   Peggy Bradley, 5414 Cody Road, stated she has lived on Cody Road, paid
city taxes for the past twenty-three years, and still has no public water or
sewer lines or cable television services. She stated the long time residents
are not being recognized while all the builders are providing services to new
residents.
17.   Mayor Kriege advised that the city would try to work with Northern
Kentucky Water District and Berling Development Company and explore options.
18.   Mr. Gabbard suggested enlisting the help of Sally Davis in Frankfort to
get state assistance for a grant. Mr. Kudera advised that a few months ago the
residents on Fowler Creek Road proceeded with the grant process only to have
several residents back out because they would not commit to part of the
financial burden for the water lines. He went on to say that the residents
would have to be willing to bear some of the expense. Mr. Nolan stated that it
was his understanding that the city required Berling to install water lines in
other subdivisions. Mayor Kriege stated that was county areas and reiterated
that the city will need to look at all options but that the residents would
probably have to pay a portion of the cost.
19.   Mr. Bushong advised that the Water District and Sanitation District
require 75% participation to install service in an area and that the engineer
study fee is $150 per home, which has to be paid in advance.
20.   Linda McHargue, 5408 Cody Road, voiced her concern that the city
continues to raise taxes but not services.
21.   Mayor Kriege requested that Mike Nolan be the liaison with the city for
the residents.
Miscellaneous Comments
22.   Mr. Gabbard addressed Mr. Kudera regarding comments he made at the April
16, 2001 special council meeting. Specifically when Mr. Kudera attributed
costly legal fees were due to excessive calls to the city attorney by some of
the council members. Mr. Gabbard stated that he spoke to Mr. Walker regarding
this charge and was told that council members phone calls were part of his
retainer fee.
23.   Mr. Gabbard also clarified that the Fowler Creek sewer pipes were used
for collateral for the construction loan of that project. He referred to
Ordinance 1998-O-11 Section 7 regarding this. Mr. Kudera stated that he did not
dispute the matter.
Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Text Amendment regarding Accessory Buildings – 1st
Reading
24.   Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian explained the proposed ordinance to
council. He stated this would eliminate accessory structures from being located
in front yards.
25.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Ellison, a first reading of
the proposed ordinance was achieved. Motion carried with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance in summary.
Resolution No. 2001-R-05 – Approving Payment of CDBG Monthly Expenses for the
Senior Center
26.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Ellison, there was a reading
of Resolution No. 2001-R-05 approving payment of monthly expenses totaling
$59,903.00 for construction of the Senior Center. Roll call was unanimous;
motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the resolution.
Proposed Ordinance – Setting the Speed Limit for Streets within the City in
Accordance with KRS
27.   Mr. Walker explained this ordinance was being proposed as a result of an
Order by Judge Sheehan in the Kenton County District Court. He stated that the
Order rules that individual city ordinances regarding speed limits that were
not based upon engineering and traffic investigations are void. Mr. Walker
stated that the simplest solution, without the expense of an engineering study,
is to enact a 20 mph speed limit, which is acceptable, and then enact the fine
schedule that exists under K.R.S. 189.390. Chief of Police, Shawn Butler
advised that most cities had not revised their city ordinance in accordance
with K.R.S. 189.390. Mr. Walker stated the proposed ordinance would amend the
city’s current traffic ordinance that was adopted in 1983.
28.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance; seconded by Mr. Kudera. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Creating Citation Officers – 1st Reading
29.   Mr. Walker explained the purpose of this proposed ordinance is to
establish the positions and appoint citation officers in accordance with K.R.S.
He stated this would provide a more efficient and time responsive enforcement
of the codes.
30.   Mr. Gabbard expressed concern in adopting this type ordinance. He stated
this has not been discussed and felt this needs more review. Mr. Dupps stated
this issue was first introduced with the previous council and it was felt that
this ordinance would provide the city additional reinforcement. Mr. Bushong
asked what types of violations would be cited. Mr. Walker replied this
ordinance provides procedures for citations issued according to state statute
to the Code Enforcement Board and would include zoning code and nuisance
sections such as barking dogs, high grass, etc. Mr. Moriconi stated he felt
this would be good as the city receives many of these kinds of complaints.
31.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed ordinance
to create citation officer positions. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor and Mr. Walker
read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Budget for 2001/02 Fiscal Year – 1st Reading
32.   Mayor Kriege reintroduced the proposed budget for the 2001/02 fiscal year
for council’s discussion and possible action. Mr. Gabbard asked where the
$5,000 liability insurance deductible to settle the Porter vs. City of
Independence lawsuit would be taken. Mayor Kriege advised that money would come
out of the current budget, not next year’s budget.
33.   Mr. Gabbard stated that he thought the pay increases for employees was
going to be 4.5% but it appears that Public Works employees are figured at 5%.
Mrs. Guenther, Finance Director, advised that when the pay increases were
discussed at the Annual Planning Session that the consumer price index (cpi)
was 2.9% but that has risen and is now 3.8%, which is why the wages were
increased. Mr. Gabbard asked how the pay raises were determined. Mayor Kriege
replied the salaries are based on employee performance reviews.
34.   Mr. Dupps commended Mayor Kriege for presenting a prudent budget. Mayor
Kriege stated that during the last few months the revenues have come in higher
than projected due in part to the commercial development.
35.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading, in summary, of the
proposed budget for the 2001/02 fiscal year; seconded by Mr. Bushong. Roll call
was answered by five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion
carried 5-1 in favor and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Engineer – Dave Whitacre, Cardinal Engineering
36.   Mr. Whitacre reported that four bids were received by the city for the
Holten Drive Repairs Project. The bid was divided into two options; one for the
concrete widening and one for asphalt repairs and overlay to the remainder of
the street. He stated the project was bid in this manner so that the city would
have the option to complete he entire project or partially, as budget
constraints dictate. He reported that the four bids were received from JPS
Construction, Michels Concrete Construction, Quast Paving & Sealing and Barrett
Paving. He stated that overall JPS Construction is the low bid, but that
Michels was the low bidder on the asphalt option. Mr. Whitacre advised that he
has worked with both companies and reported that both are very good.
37.   Mayor Kriege commented that JPS Construction did work for the city last
year. Mr. Whitacre confirmed that they did some concrete work last year and
there was a problem with the concrete provided by the concrete supplier. It was
not the fault of JPS, but the replacement of the street still falls under
warranty.
38.   Mayor Kriege stated the current budget couldn’t afford to include Option
2 at this time. He asked Mr. Whitacre if the contractor would hold the bid
amount until July. Mr. Walker advised the city couldn’t appropriate more than
is in the current budget. Mr. Bushong asked if the bad spots on Holten Drive
would also be included in this project. Mr. Whitacre stated the existing
overlay will be milled, joint repairs made and a new two-inch surface will be
laid.
39.   Mayor Kriege stated the city would contact a representative from Balluff
to pursue a financial commitment for this project.
40.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to award Option 1 of the Holten Drive Repairs
Contract to JPS Construction as the lowest and best bid. Mr. Ellison seconded
the motion. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
41.   Mr. Whitacre stated that he would speak with Michels Construction to ask
if they would maintain their bid price for the asphalt repairs and overlay
(Option 2) until July.
42.   Mr. Whitacre reported that he is still conducting a field audit on ADA
accessibility sidewalk ramps for a grade change. He stated they will do the
best they can to make ramps work on steep streets but doubts it will be
possible to meet code. City Attorney, Mr. Walker advised that the ADA
requirement is not retroactive, but if the city is making repairs to a street
then it is required to meet the ADA code and, of course, all newly constructed
streets have to comply with ADA.
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister, Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission
43.   Mr. McAllister asked if there were any questions regarding the monthly
violation report he submitted. Mayor Kriege expressed concern that there
appears to be no follow up to the initial violation letters. Mr. McAllister
stated that if the listed violation is not marked abated, then it is an
outstanding violation. Mr. Bushong stated that he feels the proposed ordinance
appointing citation officers will aid in getting these violations settled. Mr.
Gabbard questioned whether contracted personnel are able to issue citations, as
the building inspector and zoning administrator are not employees. Mr. Walker
stated this detail was overlooked in the proposed ordinance that had a first
reading earlier in this meeting. The ordinance was amended to include
contracted personnel.
Proposed Ordinance – Creating Citation Officers – (New) 1st Reading
44.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a new first reading of the proposed
ordinance creating citation officers to include contracted personnel. Mr.
Kudera seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Walker read
the proposed ordinance.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
45.   Mr. Barbian reported that the Court House Restaurant and the Fifth Third
Bank, both at the Independence Towne Center are progressing. He stated that he
has been checking the progress of the Senior Center on a regular basis. Mr.
Barbian also advised that a dentist office would be taking up residence in a
remodeled building at Route 16 and Rickey Lane.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
46.   Mr. Smith reported that repairs on Jonathan Way are complete. Mr. Gabbard
commented that he noticed the intersection of Old Richardson Road and Madison
Pike had been trimmed somewhat, but wondered if a broader restoration of that
area would be done. Mr. Smith replied that he has discussed this with the City
Administrator and for the time being it was decided to keep the area trimmed.
Mayor Kriege suggested it might be necessary to put a “road closed” sign in the
area. Mr. Gabbard thought that a guardrail might also be a way to tidy up the
area. Mr. Walker advised it is only necessary to do what is reasonable in order
to maintain traffic in a safe manner. Mayor Kriege suggested the city look at
this to see if the city is in compliance. Mr. Ellison stated he thinks these
are county roads. Mayor Kriege stated the city would speak with the county road
department regarding this.
47.   Mayor Kriege reported the old Richardson Road bridge is receiving annual
inspections and that the last inspection was last year on July 7, 2000. He
stated these inspections are performed by the State Highway Department.
48.   Mr. Bushong reported that Beechgrove Drive is a mess due to the recent
installations of water lines. Mr. Wendling stated that the Water District is
overseeing this project and has learned the District has had problems with the
company (Lawrence Construction) who installed the lines. Mr. Smith reported
that the newly laid lines are currently being tested. When the testing is
complete, the street overlays will finish the project. He stated the city will
follow up with the reconstruction of Beechgrove Drive and will compare the
before and after videos in order to come to an agreement on sharing the cost of
the overlay.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
49.   Mrs. Brake reported there have been incidents of vandalism at
Independence Park and Sterling Staggs Park.
50.   She stated she has been working on the Summer Youth Program and is in the
process of confirming a location to hold the Basketball Camp, which will be
managed by Ken Shields. She stated there would also be an Art in the Park
program.
51.   Mrs. Brake informed council that she is working on a Farmer’s Market to
be held at Memorial Park on Sundays from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., June through the
fall season. She currently has four participants that have expressed interest
but feels to be successful eight participants are needed.
52.   Mr. Ellison questioned Mrs. Brake regarding a leaky water valve at Staggs
Park. Mrs. Brake stated they are aware of the matter and are looking at repair
options.
Police Department – Shawn Butler, Chief
53.   Chief Butler reported that last month his department handled 1,569 calls
for service, made 42 arrests and issued 47 citations. He stated the department
is involved in various safety programs including a high risk program for
employees of Simon Kenton High School. Chief Butler extended a general
invitation to council to attend the graduation ceremony for the Citizens Police
Academy. Chief Butler was happy to report that Sgt. John Lonaker received the
Outstanding Law Enforcement Student award from Northern Kentucky University.
54.   Mr. Gabbard asked Chief Butler if he would be replacing the four-wheel
drive vehicles in the cruiser fleet. Chief Butler replied that the city would
loose six due to lease expirations and that he will replace two, but the
department will not have the number had in the past.
55.   Mr. Moriconi complimented the Police Department on the professionalism
displayed while handling the recent incident on Sydney Drive involving a car
stunt performed by juveniles that made national news.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee, Jim Kudera, Chairman
56.   Mr. Kudera stated he had no report. He thanked Mayor Kriege and Mr.
Wendling for a fine job on the proposed budget for 2001/02.
Building Committee, Chris Moriconi, Chairman
57.   Mr. Moriconi reported that construction of the Senior Center is on
schedule. He also said the committee is discussing the location of restroom
facilities at Memorial Park. He asked Mrs. Brake if there are deed restrictions
on the park land and she said there are. Mr. Wendling will meet with Bob
Becker, member of Independence Recreation Commission, as he will coordinate the
volunteer labor.
Personnel & Administration Committee, Jim Bushong, Chairman
58.   Mr. Bushong stated the committee met on May 2nd and discussed future
personnel needs. He also stated the Mr. Wendling discussed the employee health
plan benefit.
Planning & Zoning Committee, Jim Ellison, Chairman
59.   Mr. Ellison reported the committee met with Dave Taylor of Taylor
Brothers regarding a subdivision plan that will abut Clover Ridge subdivision
on Taylor Mill Road. He reported they would build with the existing zoning.
60.   Mr. Ellison informed council the committee also met with Fischer
Development who is requesting a zone change for an area of land off of Fowler
Creek Road that will abut the Clover Ridge Subdivision. Mr. Wendling stated
that Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission has recommended the
zone change request for approval.
61.   Mr. Ellison stated that he has learned that Scheben Development Company
is responsible for putting in the turn lane on Madison Pike at the entrance of
the Liberty Orchard Subdivision. He stated that he originally thought the
Fischer Homes was the responsible party. He stated the city needs to notify the
Planning Commission and Scheben Development that the turn lanes need to be
constructed. In closing, he expressed concern that this could become a
universal problem wherein a developer leaves town before complying with the
conditions of the development plan.
Public Safety Committee, Eric Dupps, Chairman
62.   Mr. Dupps stated the committee has reviewed the status of the Resource
Officer grants. They have also reviewed the take home fleet schedule. He stated
the department would staff security for the Memorial Day Parade, which will
line up at Delaware Crossing and proceed north on Madison Pike and end at the
Kenton County Courthouse.
63.   Mr. Dupps stated the next meeting for this committee would be on May 15,
2001.
Public Works Committee, Isaac Gabbard, Chairman
64.   Mr. Gabbard thanked the Public Works Department for cleaning up the
Richardson Road/Madison Pike intersection. He stated the committee discussed
the Richardson Road Bridge inspections, enforcing the law regarding no signs
being posted in the right of way and obtaining a copy of a home drainage plan
from Al Bowling for the committee to review.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
65.   Mayor Kriege announced that Baccalaureate services will be held at
Independence Christian Church on May 29, 2001 at 7:00 p.m.
66.   The Mayor also reported that Mr. Greg Bridges is content with locating a
flagpole memorial at Memorial park between the firehouse and Jack Woods
Parkway. He stated details would need to be worked out as there are plans for a
Memorial Park sign. It is hoped the sign will be installed before the Fourth of
July Celebration. Mayor Kriege suggested doing both the park sign and the flag
memorial as a collaborative project. He advised Mrs. Brake to consult Mr.
Bridges to see if this is okay with him. Mr. Bushong asked if lighting would be
part of the flagpole memorial. Mr. Wendling stated he would get cost estimates
for lighting.
Adjournment
67.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Gabbard, the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried and the meeting was adjourned at 9:30 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
___________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 4, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike
Gabbard, Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance
was City Attorney, Jeffrey S. Smith (sitting in for H. Lawson Walker) and City
Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 7, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular council
meeting of May 7, 2001, as amended. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call
was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Amendment to the Minutes of the May 1, 2001 Special Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Gabbard requested the minutes of the special council meeting on May 1,
2001 be amended to reflect the City Attorney’s request that the terms of the
settlement of the Porter versus the City lawsuit, as discussed in executive
session, be kept confidential. Mayor Kriege stated that if council agreed, this
could be included in the minutes, but he added that he felt it was irrelevant,
as the final agreement did not stipulate confidentiality. Mr. Ellison asked Mr.
Gabbard if he wanted that documented in the open session of the minutes. Mr.
Gabbard stated that he did.
4.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to amend the minutes of the Special Council
Meeting of May 1, 2001 to include Lawson Walker’s admonition concerning
confidentiality of the Porter versus the City lawsuit settlement. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with six yes votes. Motion carried
6-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Mr. Gabbard requested that the agenda be amended to move Privileges of the
Floor ahead of Old Business. The council agreed to this amendment.
6.   Mayor Kriege called on Lisa Tarvin and Jackie Tarvin, 5270 Fowler Creek
Road, who stated they did not wish to speak at this time, but reserved the
right.
7.   Tom Brinker, 1192 Constitution Drive addressed council regarding the
vacant land at the entrance to the Independence Pointe Subdivision owned by
Finke Development Company. He had a clump of grass to illustrate how high the
hillside had become before it was mowed last Wednesday. He stated that Finke
feels that this lawn height is okay and that sometimes it is one month between
cuts. Mr. Wendling stated he has contacted a representative of the Finke
Company and will continue to work with him in order to get this land mowed on a
more regular basis.
Resolution No. 2001-R-06 – Approving Payment of CDBG Monthly Expenses for the
Senior Center
8.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Moriconi, there was a reading
of Resolution No. 2001-R-06 approving the payment of monthly expenses totaling
$66,510.00 for construction of the Senior Center. Roll call was answered with
all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
9.   Mr. Ellison requested that council be provided with a report that would
list the sources of revenue and expenses for their review. Mayor Kriege agreed
to this request and stated the report would be provided each month.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-02 Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Accessory
Buildings
10.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance No. 2001-
O-02 to approve a zoning text amendment pertaining to the size of accessory
storage buildings, garages or carports and prohibiting accessory structures
from being located within any front yard or required minimum side yard. Mr.
Bushong seconded the motion. Mr. Smith, City Attorney, read the proposed
ordinance. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor
Ordinance No. 2001-O-03 Setting the Speed Limit at 20 mph on City Streets in
Accordance with K.R.S.
11.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance No. 2001-
O-03 to set the speed limit at 20 miles per hour, in accordance with K.R.S. on
all city maintained streets within the city. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion.
Mr. Smith, City Attorney, read the proposed ordinance. A brief discussion
ensued wherein Mr. Gabbard stated that he has received calls from residents
asking that the speed limit be set at 25 mph. Mr. Ellison stated that he felt
that most people drive at 25 mph even though the limited is posted at 20 and
that if the limit is 25 mph then they will drive 30 or 35 mph. He thought it
was best to keep the limit at 20 mph. Roll call was answered with all ayes.
Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-04 Creating the Positions of Citation Officers
12.   A motion was made by Mr. Kudera and seconded by Mr. Moriconi, to have a
second reading of proposed Ordinance No. 2001-O-04 creating the position of
Citation Officers for the purpose of enforcing the city’s Code of Ordinances. A
brief discussion ensued regarding the council’s approval of the Mayor’s
appointments as a citation officer. Mr. Smith read Ordinance No. 2001-O-04.
Roll call was answered unanimously and motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-05 Adopting a Budget for the 2001-02 Fiscal Year
13.   A motion was made by Mr. Kudera and a seconded by Mr. Dupps to have a
second reading of proposed Ordinance No. 2001-O-05 adopting a budget for the
2001-02 fiscal year. Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Kriege opened
the floor for discussion of the proposed budget.
14.   Mr. Gabbard stated he felt it was necessary to look at the amendments to
the current budget before discussing the proposed budget and pointed to the
police salary line item that reflected a $100,000 increase in the proposed
amended budget. Mr. Ellison asked what the percentage rate was for the
retirement contribution. Mr. Wendling stated that it varied depending on
whether it was a hazardous or non-hazardous employee. He advised that the non-
hazardous rate was about seven percent and the hazardous rate was approximately
seventeen percent.
15.   Mr. Gabbard asked how the final salary increase figures were calculated.
Mr. Wendling stated that the final raise amounts are not complete but that a
five percent was figured for the budget by using the current Consumer Price
Index rate with a merit increase of one to two percent. Mr. Gabbard wanted to
know what factors determine an employee’s merit percent increase. Mr. Wendling
replied than throughout the year there may have been significant times where
the employee took on additional responsibilities, etc. Mr. Gabbard asked if
most employees would be on the plus side of a five percent increase. Mr.
Wendling replied that it depended on the situation and that some would be
higher.
16.   At this time, roll call was taken and answered with four yes votes and
two no votes by Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 4-2 in favor. Mr.
Gabbard stated that he voted against the proposed budget do to the following
four reasons:
§   He objected to the $12,500 payment to Porter and the attorney’s fees for
representation in the Ed Porter vs. The City of Independence lawsuit. He
disputed the Mayor’s right to dismiss Mr. Porter and the settlement amount.
§   He objected to the $2,400 spent on the Christmas Dinner and that the dinner
was held at a facility outside the city limits.
§   He objected to the amount of money paid to the City Attorney for legal
counsel. He stated that other comparable cities (Erlanger, Fort Thomas,
Florence) pay much lower fees.
§   He objected to the $16,000 paid to former City Administrator, Gary Scott as
severance pay. He stated that he feels this was an illegal payment and that the
Opinion of the Attorney General (OAG 78.206) supports his belief.
17.   Mayor Kriege refuted Mr. Gabbard’s assertions. He stated he would not
debate the details of the settlement, but advised Mr. Gabbard that the
disbursement would be paid by the insurance company and disbursed over a
twenty-year period making the value of the settlement markedly depreciating. In
addition, he informed Mr. Gabbard that the Christmas Dinner was the Annual
Appreciation Dinner held each year for volunteers and employees and that it was
held outside the city as there is no facility in Independence large enough to
accommodate the assemblage.
Approval of Map Amendment for Donald Newsom Property on Stephens Road
18.   Mr. Ellison reported that Mr. Newsom made application to the Planning
Commission to approve a map amendment to plat the existing residential
building, and approximately one acre of land, from the remaining property
totaling approximately 124 acres. In addition, Mr. Newsom requested a waiver of
sidewalks along Stephens Road and no public improvements. Mr. Ellison advised
that Kenton County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission recommended the
map amendment for approval with the condition that a sidewalk be provided along
the portion of Stephens Road fronting the proposed lot. Mr. Ellison reminded
council the city has ninety days to act on NKMP&Z Commission’s recommendation.
19.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to support the Kenton County and Municipal
Planning & Zoning Commission’s recommendation to approve the map amendment
subject to the condition that a sidewalk be installed. Mr. Gabbard seconded the
motion. Roll call vote was unanimous and the motion carried.
Grand Communities, Ltd (Fischer Development) Request for a Zone Change East of
Fowler Creek Road
20.   Mayor Kriege stated that Grand Communities has requested a zone change
for property east of Fowler Creek Road and stated that representatives were
present to address this matter. The Mayor cautioned the council and audience
that a public hearing has already been held on this zone change and that
council needs to make a decision based on the findings of the Kenton County and
Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission’s recommendation. Mayor Kriege advised
council the city has until August 3, 2001 to act on the Commission’s
recommendation leaving time for the city to hold its’ own public hearing if
council so desires.
21.   Mr. Steve Feldman, Ms. Elizabeth Horowitz and Mr. Don McDonough were in
attendance to represent Grand Communities, Ltd. (Fischer Homes). Mr. Feldman
explained that Fischer Homes is requesting that a seventy-seven acre tract on
the east side of Fowler Creek Road be re-zoned from R-1C to an R-1D cluster
development. He stated their proposed development would preserve the hillsides,
lake and ravine on the property along with the construction of 120-150 single-
family homes with a price range of $200,000 to $250,000. He stated the zone
change request has been given approval of the Kenton County and Municipal
Planning & Zoning Commission.
22.   Mr. McDonough added that the homes will be 2000 to 3200 square feet in
size and will include more features and customization than the Clover Ridge
Subdivision.
23.   Ms. Horowitz advised that five acres of the seventy-seven acres would
remain under private ownership. She stated the current zone of R-1C would
permit two hundred homes, but with the R-1D zone they are requesting, the
maximum number of homes would be 150-155. She stated the R-1D zone would also
provide a variety of lot sizes with the smallest lot size being seventy foot,
having a mixture of housing styles and a more attractive streetscape. Ms.
Horowitz advised that the adjoining properties are in the process of
development so there will be multiple ingress/egress.
24.   Mr. Ellison asked if the Planning Commission recommended turn lanes on
Fowler Creek Road. Mrs. Horowitz stated that would be a recommendation of the
Subdivision Review and that they need a zone change before a preliminary plat
is submitted for review.
25.   Mr. Gabbard asked how the steep areas of the land would be developed. Ms.
Horowitz stated that by granting the zone change they could build the same
number of houses, but in smaller spaces, thereby keeping the hillsides as
undeveloped green space. Mayor Kriege asked about water runoff. Ms. Horowitz
stated that until a preliminary plat is designed, that will not be known. Mr.
Dupps questioned the elevation of the lake on the property. Mr. Feldman
answered there will be a retention basin. Mr. Gabbard wondered if the lake
would be used for retention. Mr. Dupps was concerned about water retention to
secure the Banklick Creek area. Mrs. Horowitz advised they couldn’t increase
storm water run off, in any case, to what it would be in its natural state. Mr.
Ellison expressed concern that the property was physically restrictive for
development. Mr. Moriconi asked if the main road would be widen to handle the
increase traffic. Ms. Horowitz stated that would be part of a preliminary plat
when it is designed.
26.   At this time, Mr. Gabbard stated that pursuant to KRS 100.211 he was
making a motion to override the recommendation of the Kenton County and
Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission to approve the proposed map amendment to
the Independence Zoning Ordinance to change an approximate seventy-seven acre
area located along the east side of Fowler Creek Road, between Senour Road and
Cox Road, approximately 3,000 feet south of Senour Road, from R-1A and R-1C to
R–1D. He stated the basis to override the Planning Commission’s recommendation
is: the proposed development associated with the map amendment will severely
diminish the privacy of the area, the character of the natural environment of
the subject property will be destroyed, the proposed development will not serve
to preserve the green space of the subject property and the existing roadway
and infrastructure cannot accommodate the traffic to be generated by the
proposed development. In addition, the above stated reasons demonstrate the
existing zoning classification for the property is appropriate and the proposed
zoning classification is inappropriate; there have been no major changes of an
economic, physical, or social nature within the area which were not anticipated
in the adopted comprehensive plan and which have substantially altered the
basic character of the area; and there is no compelling reason for the proposed
zoning map amendment. He stated the reasons for rejection of the Planning
Commission’s recommendation stems solely from the public hearing conducted by
the Planning Commission on this matter on May 3, 2001 at 6:15 p.m. and
contained within the Findings of Fact and Statement of Recommendation by the
Planning Commission. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. There being no further
discussion, roll call was taken and answered with four yes votes and two no
votes cast by Mr. Moriconi and Mr. Bushong. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
Recess
27.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Moriconi, a brief recess was
requested. Motion carried with all ayes.
28.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Kudera, the meeting
reconvened. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance to Amend the 2000/01 Budget – 1st Reading
29.   Mayor Kriege advised council the current budget would need amending to
reflect the increases in revenue and expenditures. Mr. Jeff Smith, City
Attorney, advised council the budget would need to be amended before the end of
the fiscal year which is June 30, 2001 and since the next regular meeting is in
July that it would be necessary to schedule a special meeting or proceed under
an emergency reading tonight. Mr. Gabbard stated that he believed it did not
meet the standard for an emergency reading. Mr. Smith advised that the statute
allows council to discern the criteria that constitutes an emergency.
30.   Mayor Kriege referred council to the memo from Mr. Wendling explaining
the necessary changes to the budget. The Mayor pointed out that the
expenditures increased due to additional attorney fees, insurance settlement,
police grant expenses, increased gasoline costs, and anticipated Senior Center
expenses. He also noted that the revenue increased by $322,200 over what was
estimated. There was a brief discussion regarding the increased expenses. Mr.
Smith reiterated that the amended budget ordinance would need to be adopted
before June 30, 2001 as some departments exceeded expenditures and this should
not be reflected on the audit.
31.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a first reading of the amended budget
for the 2000/01 fiscal year. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. No roll call;
motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance.
Discussion of Enforcement Methods of Zoning Regulations
32.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to make a text amendment to the zoning ordinance providing the zoning
administrator discretionary powers to determine a civil or criminal action.
33.   City Attorney, Mr. Smith stated that a proposed ordinance has not been
drafted yet. He referred Mayor Kriege and council to the letter in the council
packets addressed to Rich McAllister and Mark Wendling from Dianne Kuhnell of
Frost, Brown, Todd regarding code enforcement methods used by the Zoning
Administrator. Ms. Kuhnell advised that according to the Kentucky League of
Cities the city could enforce its zoning regulations by civil or criminal
proceedings allowing the Zoning Administrator to use his/her discretion in each
case. However, Mr. Smith advised the city Code Enforcement Board could only
preside over civil proceedings.
34.   Mr. Smith stated that based on Ms. Kuhnell’s findings, it has been
determined that several sections of the current zoning ordinance may need a
text amendment to include the phrase “…determine at his discretion the
necessary civil or criminal action...”. Mr. Ellison stated that he feels the
Planning & Zoning Committee should review this information to determine if this
is necessary. Mayor Kriege agreed this matter should be sent to the committee
for review with Mr. McAllister.
35.   Following this discussion, Mr. Bushong withdrew his motion. Mr. Ellison
made a motion that the Planning & Zoning Committee review a possible text
amendment to the zoning ordinance and make a recommendation to the council. Mr.
Gabbard seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 1-11-82 Re: Nuisance/Control of
Grass & Weeds
36.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance amending two out-dated ordinances (Ordinance No. 1-11-82 and
Ordinance No. 2-5-80) regarding the nuisance and control of weeds and grass.
Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried unanimously. Mr.
Smith, City Attorney, read the proposed ordinance.
37.   A brief discussion ensued regarding Section I of the proposed ordinance
wherein “…overgrown grass is considered to be in excess of eight (8) inches in
length for purposes of this ordinance…” Mayor Kriege asked if eight inches was
reasonable. Mr. Dupps stated that he is aware of only one other city that
states a grass length in their ordinance. Mr. Gabbard stated that during a
rainy period that grass can grow several inches in a week’s time. Council
amended Section I to include that the notice could be hand-delivered and/or
mailed to the last know address of the property owner. Also discussed was
Section III and applying a fine of $100. Consensus was to make the fine $100
per day. Mr. Kudera stated that a fine or penalty is supposed to “hurt.”
38.   After the changes were made to the proposed ordinance, Mr. Gabbard made a
motion to approve the amendments as discussed and reviewed. Mr. Moriconi
seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried unanimously. Mr. Smith read
the proposed ordinance with amendments.
39.   Mr. Kudera suggested the second reading of this ordinance be added to the
agenda of the Special Council Meeting later this month so that enforcement can
begin.
Minutes of Council Meetings
40.    Mr. Gabbard requested that copies of the minutes of the previous month’s
council meetings be placed at the entrance to the meeting room for
distribution. Mayor Kriege stated this would be okay but that everyone needs to
understand that the minutes distributed are for inspection only and not the
official record until approved by council and signed. Mr. Gabbard stated he has
had several requests for this.
41.   Mr. Moriconi stated that he would like to find a way to recognize the
downtown businesses for the recent improvements to the storefronts. He
suggested a letter from the Mayor. Mayor Kriege stated that perhaps an official
proclamation could be presented to the property owners.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
Award of the Lawn & Ball field /Park Maintenance Bid
42.   Mr. Wendling reported that four bids were received for maintenance of the
lawn and ball fields. Bids were received from Merkle Lawn Care, Advantage
Systems, Nature’s Touch Inc. and Malco Services. Mayor Kriege stated that the
city has the current contract with Malco Services and the city has been
satisfied with the good services received. He advised council it was their
decision to award the bid. Mr. Gabbard stated that Malco Services was the
lowest in six of the eight categories in the bid packet.
43.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to award the contract for lawn and ball field/
park maintenance to Malco Services as the best bidder. Mr. Moriconi seconded
the motion. Mr. Kudera commented that Malco Services is a resident business
owner and does a good job for the city. Mr. Ellison concurred and stated the
city should retain Malco based on history alone, as they do good work and have
a very good relationship with the city. He stated the city has tried going with
the lowest bid in the past and that it is difficult to get good work at a low
cost. Roll all was answered with six ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor of
awarding the contract to Malco Services.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
44.   Mr. Wendling reported that construction of the Senior Center is on
schedule, but that the rain forecast for this week may delay getting the
building under roof.
45.   Mr. Wendling reported that the state would install a traffic light at the
intersection of Madison Pike and McCullum Drive. He stated the county has
agreed to remove two courthouse parking spaces at the corner. Mr. Wendling also
conveyed that the stated has agreed to lower the speed limit at various
sections of Madison Pike. Mr. Kudera thanked everyone that took part in working
to get these changes made. Mayor Kriege stated that he feels the state highway
department was ready to take a serious look at the conditions of Madison Pike
due to recent accidents in the area.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Engineer – Dave Whitacre, Cardinal Engineering
46.   Mr. Whitacre reported that the Holten Drive repairs have not started yet
due to the rain. He stated they have obtained verbal confirmation for the
necessary easements. He also reported the proposals will be requested for the
concrete surface testing of the deterioration of last year’s repairs in the
Hunters Green Subdivision. Mayor Kriege asked who would maintain the guarantee
for the replacement of the flawed concrete. Mr. Whitacre replied that would be
determined between the concrete contractor and the supplier of the concrete
mix.
Zoning Administrator – Rich McAllister
47.   Mr. McAllister distributed the current zoning violation list to council.
Mr. Bushong questioned the on Briarwood Drive. Mr. McAllister stated he has
been unable to make contact with the property owner and is concerned for the
safety of children in the area.
48.   Mr. Bushong also expressed concern of the on-going violation at 1020 Mt.
Zion Road where a construction business with heavy equipment is operating in a
residential zone. Mr. McAllister stated he understands the violator is parking
the equipment on the property overnight, but when he inspects during the day
the equipment is gone. Mayor Kriege suggested he make an evening inspection of
the property. Mr. Bushong advised this construction company is doing business
as usual and is ignoring the city’s order to cease business in that location.
Mr. Ellison suggested the city may want to order the mobile home trailer on the
property out of there as it is no longer being used as a non-forming use.
49.   Mr. Ellison requested that Mr. McAllister inspect an old trailer stashed
in the right of way near the BP Station at Pelly Road and Patriots Way off of
Madison Pike.
50.   Mr. Dupps asked that Mr. McAllister enforce the zoning code so that Finke
Homes moves toward compliance in maintaining their property in the Independence
Pointe Subdivision and Mr. Brinker is not compelled to attend future council
meetings in pursuit of resolving this violation.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
51.   Mr. Barbian stated that permits for single-family residences is
dominating his building report. He reported that Courthouse Restaurant has a
tentative date of June 15, 2001 for completion but states that realistically it
may be completed around July 4th.
52.   Mr. Gabbard advised he has noticed that some homes have not completed the
sidewalks as required. Mr. Barbian stated he is aware of this and will monitor
the matter. He stated that he usually does not issue a Certificate of Occupancy
until everything is complete, but in certain instances, such as Bristow Road,
the sidewalks will be installed after the road construction is completed. He
also stated that the Planning Commission is responsible for the sidewalk
inspections and in certain locations sidewalks are not required in accordance
with the Subdivision Regulations. Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Ellison disagreed with
this comment and advised there is a city ordinance that requires sidewalks.
Public Works – Jeff Smith
53.   Mr. Smith reported testing of the storm sewer system. He stated he has
the plans that shows the locations of all manholes and advised council they are
welcome to inspect it.
54.   Mr. Moriconi asked when the winter street banners would be removed. Mr.
Smith stated they have surveyed the poles along Madison Pike in preparation to
replace the winter banners with new banners for the summer. He stated it would
be necessary to rent a special lift truck to install the banners.
Recreation – Nita Brake
55.   Ms Brake reported on several items. She stated that a 4-H Club has
planted flowers at Sterling Staggs Park and Wicklund Florist, Deatons
Greenhouse, Fedders - Perennial Lady and Stephens Road Greenhouse, donated the
flowers. In addition, the 4-H Club weeded the Park and Ride lot.
56.   Ms. Brake reported she is currently working on the July 4th Celebration,
which will include a parade, live musical entertainment and fireworks display.
She advised the Summer Program would begin on June 14, 2001 and would run for
eight weeks.
57.   In closing, Ms. Brake advised the American Legion would hold their annual
flag burning ceremony on field one of the Sterling Staggs Park on Flag Day,
June 14.
Police Department – Lt. Dave Nichols
58.   Lt. Nichols reported that last month the police department handled 1612
calls for service, 56 arrests and issued 214 citations. He also stated that a
Bike Rodeo was conducted at summit View School with collaboration of the Kenton
County Police.
59.   Mr. Gabbard asked if the department had received their new badges. Lt.
Nichols replied the badges should arrive around July 1.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
60.   Chairman, Mr. Kudera stated he had nothing to report, as the committee
did not meet.
Building Committee
61.   Mayor Kriege reported that he hoped to have the Feasibility Study
completed in June and make presentation to council at the July meeting. Mayor
Kriege also advised that the bids for construction of the Memorial Park
Amphitheatre were due on June 12, 2001.
Personnel & Administration Committee
62.   Mayor Kriege stated this committee meets quarterly and the next meeting
is scheduled for July 10, 2001.
Planning & Zoning Committee
63.   Chairman, Mr. Ellison stated the proposed ordinance to control the height
of grass/weeds was discussed before tonight’s presentation to council.
64.   Mr. Gabbard asked when the KLC training session for Board of Adjustment
members and other related zoning positions was being held. Mr. Wendling stated
the training session is scheduled for June 14, 2001. Mr. Ellison commented that
House Bill 55 adopted by the state at the last General Session requires this
training for all Boards of Adjustment members.
65.   Mr. Ellison reported he has received a call from a resident regarding the
lake on the common area in the Hunters Green Subdivision. He stated the lake is
moss filled and the resident would like the city to address this problem. Mr.
Wendling stated he is looking into this problem and how to resolve this common
area left when the Homeowners Association dissolved. He wondered if the city
wanted to take on this liability. Mayor Kriege suggested the Planning & Zoning
Committee address this matter so that they can discuss possible options for a
resolution.
Public Safety Committee
66.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps stated that the Police Department has had a 23.6%
increase in service calls over the last five years. He reported that a
substation would be installed at Remke’s on Turkeyfoot Road. Lt. Nichols stated
the substation is structurally completed, with finishing touches being placed,
but that the station is now operational. Mr. Dupps stated the next committee
meeting is scheduled for June 19, 2001.
Public Works Committee
67.   Mr. Gabbard announced the next meeting for this committee is schedule for
July 11, 2001.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
68.   Mayor Kriege presented an executive order to council that would approve
his appointment of citation officers for the city. He advised the citation
officers would be Mark Wendling, Rich McAllister, Jeff Smith, Kevin Barbian and
Diane Collins.
Resolution No. 2001-EO-06 – Appointing Citation Officers for the City
69.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi Resolution No. 2001-
EO-06 was read. Roll call was answered with five yes votes with Mr. Gabbard
passing on the vote. He stated he did not agree with the Executive Order.
Motion carried with one pass and five yeas in favor of the appointments.
Adjournment
70.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps, the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 9:30 p.m.
_______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 25, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. Council Members
Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call.
Council Members, Jim Ellison and Ike Gabbard were absent. Also in attendance
was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was to
discuss and take action on the second readings of a proposed ordinance to amend
the 2000/01 fiscal year budget and a proposed ordinance regarding the nuisance
control of overgrown grass and weeds on non-agricultural properties.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-06 – Regarding Control of Grass/Weeds on Non Agricultural
Properties – 2nd Reading
3.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps Ordinance No. 2001-O-06
was read by City Attorney, Lawson Walker. Mayor Kriege commented that he felt
the adoption of this ordinance would ease the enforcement of the current
problems in the city regarding property lawn maintenance. Mr. Dupps pointed out
two property locations – the entrance to the Independence Pointe Subdivision
owned by Finke Homes and the property at the corner of Briarwood and Richardson
Road – that have been consistently in violation with overgrown grass and weeds.
Mayor Kriege advised the city has been monitoring these properties and will
continue to do so. At this time, roll call was taken and answered with four yes
votes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-07 – Amending the 2000/01 Budget – 2nd Reading
4.   Mayor Kriege stated that it is necessary to amend the current budget in
order to be in compliance with financial audit regulations.
5.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to amend the 2000/01 fiscal year budget, seconded by Mr. Moriconi.
City Attorney, Lawson Walker read the proposed ordinance. There was a brief
discussion wherein Finance Director, Amy Guenther reported that the proposed
revenues for the year came in higher than estimated. She also reported that
some expenses were higher due to the settlement of the Porter lawsuit,
expiration of grants and expenses related to the Senior Center.
6.   Roll call on Mr. Bushong’s motion and Mr. Moriconi’s second yielded four
yes votes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor of adopting the amended budget
ordinance.
Adjournment
7.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Kudera, the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 7:11 p.m.
_____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_______________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JULY 2, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant from Grace Community Church gave the
invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard,
Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance was City
Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the June 4, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular council
meeting of June 4, 2001, as amended. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll call
was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the June 25, 2001 Special Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to accept the minutes of the special council
meeting of June 25 as submitted. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Roll call
vote was answered with four yes votes with Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard
abstaining. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
4.   Richard Maines, 5254 Courtney Court, addressed council regarding the
citywide trash pick-up by Rumpke. He expressed displeasure with the service
provided by the company and wanted to know if the city had always contracted
with Rumpke. Councilman Ellison replied that Rumpke has contracted with the
city since 1990. Mayor Kriege informed Mr. Maines that the contract with Rumpke
would expire next year, at which time the city will seek bids. Mr. Maines
expressed a desire to contract with another company and increase the number of
days per week that trash is picked up.
5.   Geneva Wade, 640 Willow Drive, addressed council regarding the on-going
problems with her property since the Fowler Creek Sewer lines were installed.
She stated that this is not the first time she has addressed council regarding
the condition of her land and was upset that the city has not responded to this
matter. She depicted the rear area of her property as a marshland and has been
told there are natural springs in the area, yet this area was not constantly
wet before the sewer lines were installed. In addition, she complained about
paying the debt reduction assessment on a ‘fixed income’ for something she does
not use. She stated that the 43% population increase should have eased this
burden on the other residents. She requested council give her some answers to
this matter.
6.   Mitchell Wade, 640 Willow Drive, confirmed there was no water in the area
before the trees were cleared to install the sewer lines. He stated that he
felt if a natural spring was severed then the city should repair the damage.
Mr. Gabbard asked if the Wades had notified the city in writing back in 1996-97
when this occurred because the city would have had recourse with the excavation
contractor under the one year guarantee. He stated that it would be difficult
now to look to the contractor to make repairs. Mayor Kriege suggested reviewing
the council minutes from that time to discover any discussions about the
matter. Mr. Ellison suggested sending the city engineer over to inspect the
property and bring a recommendation back to council. Mayor Kriege asked Ms.
Wade to meet with city representatives to make an inspection of her property.
OLD BUSINESS
Zone Change Request by Grand Communities Ltd. – East Side/Fowler Creek Rd.
(Sycamore Creek Subd.)
7.   Mayor Kriege stated that representatives from Grand Communities Ltd.
(Fischer Development Company) were present and requested that council permit
them to make a second presentation regarding the zone change they are seeking
for 77 acres on the east side of Fowler Creek Road and ask that they reconsider
the matter.
8.   Mr. Jim Gorman, President of Fischer Development Company explained to
council that Grand Communities is seeking a zone change from R-1A and R-1C to
R-1D for this tract of land along the Fowler Creek Road. He stated that Grand
Communities feels this development will be unique, as no more than one-third of
the lots will have a width of seventy feet with the remaining lots a minimum
width of eighty feet. He stated that the design of the subdivision would be
livable with ample open space throughout. Mr. Gorman proposed six conditions in
addition to the conditions imposed by the Kenton County and Municipal Planning
& Zoning Commission. The conditions are:
§   The density of the site would not exceed a maximum density of 2.5 dwelling
units per net acre.
§   No more than one-third of the total lots will have the minimum R-1D lot
width of seventy feet with the remaining lots having a minimum width of eighty
feet.
§   Turn lanes on Fowler Creek Road will be added for traffic into the
subdivision in accordance with the Kentucky Department of Highways.
§   The houses to be constructed will meet the specifications of the Founders
Series of Homes offered by Fischer Homes. If Grand Communities, Ltd. sells some
of the lots, or the entire property to one or more other builders, it will be a
requirement to build homes substantially equivalent to the Founders Series of
Homes. The houses will have a first story brick wrap, except for isolated areas
not directly supported by a concrete foundation. An example of such an isolated
area would be cantilevered walls, bay windows, etc.
§   A homeowners association will be formed to maintain the common open space.
§   No building lot shall be accessed directly from Fowler Creek Road.
9.   He also presented a letter from Raymond Erpenbeck Engineers addressing the
regulatory requirements and current state of improvements for storm water
runoff control. He stated that Scott Hiles of the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission concurs with the assessment recommendations. He went on to
say that this development has been geared to protect and enhance the natural
features of the land with high quality homes and that the zone change will
preserve more land as open green space with a varied streetscape that will be
unique to Independence. He urged council to reconsider their previous decision
to deny this zone change request made at last month’s council meeting.
10.   Mayor Kriege opened the floor for questions from the council. Mr. Bushong
asked what is different in this presentation than from last month. Mr. Gorman
stated that the development plan is unchanged; just that further explanation of
the plan and the addition of building conditions that were not included in the
original presentation to council.
11.   Ms. Elizabeth Horowitz added that they also have provided more
information on the storm water runoff plan and the turn lane on Fowler Creek
Road. Grand Communities also wanted to assure council that the housing will be
the Founders Series type of structure and that subsequent builders would be
required to follow suit.
12.   Mr. Ellison expressed concern over the traffic study conducted in the
area and wondered if the study was based on speed and sight distance. Mr.
Gorman indicated the speed study was given to the Kentucky Department of
Highway.
13.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to reconsider the zone change request being made
by Grand Communities, Ltd. based on the conditional information provided,
density plan and the assurance that all homes in the development will be
required to adhere to the Founders Series of Homes style. Mr. Dupps seconded
the motion. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by
Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
14.   Further discussion ensued. Mr. Ellison expressed concern regarding the
width of the subdivision streets and asked if the streets would be twenty-five
feet wide. Ms. Horowitz stated that could be done. Mayor Kriege was concerned
that condition number four, wherein subsequent lot owners would be required to
meet the specifications of the Founders Series of Homes, would be difficult to
enforce. City Attorney, Lawson Walker advised that a covenant could be placed
on the plat, which would be the only way to ensure this condition is met. Ms.
Horowitz agreed to put a covenant on the plat. There being no further
discussion, Mayor Kriege asked council how they wanted to proceed.
15.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the zone change request for a
seventy-seven acre tract of land east of Fowler Creek Road, contingent on all
conditions imposed by the KCMP&Z Commission along with the additional
conditions presented by Grand Communities, Ltd and the attachment of the NKAPC
traffic study. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with
five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in
favor. Mr. Lawson Walker advised that this map amendment would require an
ordinance, which will be prepared and presented at the next council meeting for
a first reading.
Miscellaneous Updates
16.   Mr. Gabbard asked for an update on providing water lines in the Cody
Road/Upton Drive area per the residents’ request at the May council meeting.
Mr. Wendling replied that he spoke with Sally Davis in Frankfort regarding a
possible grant and met with Mr. Nolan, Mr. Scheben and a representative of the
Northern Kentucky Water District to discuss this matter. He stated that he
found the residents do not qualify for a Community Block Development Grant. Mr.
Wendling reported he is waiting to hear from Mr. Berling and his response to
extend the water lines from his development to the residents on Cody Road and
Upton Drive, but suspects he will want to be compensated.
17.   Mr. Gabbard also inquired on the status of obtaining a copy of the Porter
vs. the City settlement agreement. Mr. Walker stated it has been four weeks and
he is still waiting for the documents to be signed by all parties involved and
a fully executed copy returned to him.
LSI Industries – Request for Map Amendment
18.   Mr. Frank Dornbach, Manager at the LSI Industries corporate office in
Blue Ash, Ohio addressed council regarding the request the company has to
rezone 4.3 acres of their property on the east side of Turkeyfoot Road from
residential (R-1B) to IP (an industrial park zone). He stated that the building
on the site currently houses 163 employees. He stated that when they recently
applied for a permit to improve the building’s parking lot, it was discovered
that the area was incorrectly zoned residential. He stated that LSI is aware of
resident complaints regarding storm water control and sound levels, which they
feel they have made every effort to correct. He advised that LSI has incurred
expenses to conduct sound studies by an environmental engineer, contacted
soundproof consultants and purchased material to re-deflect sound to the
residential areas. After doing that, the sound level was retested to be sure it
was in compliance. Mr. Dornbach stated that in addition, last spring the storm
water runoff and drainage system was designed. He stated the facility was
purchased with the full knowledge that the entire property was zoned industrial
and they have gone to great expense recently to improve this property.
19.   At this time, Mayor Kriege cautioned council and everyone in attendance
that this was not a public hearing and that all discussion would need to adhere
to the information that was disclosed at the Kenton County & Municipal Planning
& Zoning Commission hearing on June 7, 2001. He also advised council that their
decision regarding this matter would have to be based on the facts from that
meeting and the recommendations made by the Planning Commission.
20.   Mr. Gabbard asked if there were reports from the consultants that
performed the improvements. Mr. Dornbach stated they have the reports and
advised the environmental engineer was unable to attend this meeting. He stated
that studies were conducted at different times of day to pinpoint the
improvement needs. Mr. Gabbard asked if the wooded area would be removed to
relocate the parking area. Mr. Dornbach stated the woods would remain as a
greenbelt barrier as recommended by the KC&MP&Z Commission. He stated the plan
is to relocate the parking lot to the rear of the property and add on to the
front of the building. Mr. Dupps asked if the zone change request was made in
order to install the parking lot. Mr. Dornbach stated there were two reasons
for the zone change request, the first being that the property needs to be the
appropriate zone and the second was to construct the parking lot.
21.   Mr. Dornbach added that he feels this proposed plan would adequately
control the current water runoff situation. There was a brief discussion with
Mr. Kudera and Mr. Ellison relating to the solution that would best correct the
drainage problem. Mr. Ellison felt that putting drain tiles into the nearby
creek were not the best solution and that a retention pond should be
constructed. Mr. Dornbach stated that the drain plan was submitted and approved
by the Planning Commission. He stated that when the new parking lot is built
they would be able to design a better retention area by converting the pond to
counteract the drainage.
22.   Mr. Jeff Neal, 3422 Bottomwood Drive, Erlanger, Ky. addressed council to
voice opposition to LSI’s zone change request. He stated that he could point
out information that could have changed the KC&MP&Z Commission’s decision.
Mayor Kriege cautioned Mr. Neal that he could not introduce any information
that was not heard at the Planning Commission’s public hearing. Mr. Neal
informed council that the LSI facility is surrounded by residential properties
with three hundred homes in the area. He expressed doubt regarding the sound
studies and the credentials of the professionals who conducted the studies. Mr.
Neal brought blueprints and photos to share with council, but Mayor Kriege
advised him that if these were not submitted at the KC&MP&Z Commission’s
meeting then council could not consider them. Mr. Neal stated that he was not
allowed to speak at the meeting. Mr. Walker explained council’s situation to
Mr. Neal and advised him that the city cannot help that the Planning Commission
would not hear his debate over this matter. Mr. Walker went on to inform Mr.
Neal that he can challenge LSI’s expert’s opinion, but that council cannot hear
information that did not transpire at the public meeting held by the Planning
Commission. Mayor Kriege would not permit review of the photos Mr. Neal
presented as the public hearing was a month ago and the photos were taken
yesterday. The photos showed water damage to his property due to the runoff
water from the LSI property. He stated that he feels the addition of a parking
lot will increase the water drainage problem.
23.   Mr. Neal’s other complaint was the sound level from the LSI facility,
which he claims awakens his children at night. Councilman Gabbard stated that
this manufacturing plant has been at this location for the past 30-50 years.
Mr. Neal stated that the facility now has three shifts of workers and they are
constantly expanding operations. Mr. Gabbard reasoned that since the plant has
maintained this location for such a long period of time that it would be unfair
to chastise them for growth especially since they provide an economic base for
the community. Mr. Neal felt that there has to be a limit and suggested that
LSI move to another section of the Industrial Park, as there are other
locations available.
24.   Mr. Neal maintained that if council approves this zone change the result
would be a water runoff problem to surrounding properties. He asked if LSI or
the city was willing to provide written confirmation they would correct any
situation that should arise.
25.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to table discussion and action of this zone
change until the Planning & Zoning Committee could review and make a
recommendation to council at the next council meeting. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. Further discussion ensued.
26.   Mr. Dornbach expressed his frustration that council would consider
tabling this request. He reiterated that all plans submitted to the Planning
Commission have been reviewed and approved. He also suggested that since the
city has a ‘noise ordinance’ they should be cited and fined if they are in
violation of this law, which he does not feel they are as their records
indicate they are within the law. He went on to say the Independence facility
is not equipped to handle additional workload without the needed expansion,
thereby sending extra business to the Blue Ash plant.
27.   Mr. Gabbard advised that the council would like to make a decision that
would be beneficial to everyone. Mr. Dupps commented that the summary of the
evidence and testimony presented by the opponents and proponents states the
summary is “believed to be accurate but has not been reviewed or approved by
the Commission.” Mayor Kriege stated that is a summary sheet of the KC&MP&Z
Commission’s public hearing. Mr. Barbian stated he believes it has been
approved or it wouldn’t be before the council. Mr. Gabbard stated there is
probably now available a better summary or transcript.
28.   Mr. Moriconi stated that he would prefer not to table this matter as he
doesn’t think there will be any changes in the next few weeks, and he didn’t
want to see it delayed for another month. Mr. Kudera agreed. He commented that
he sees this is frustrating for the business and while he sympathizes with the
residents he is not in favor of tabling this matter.
29.   At this time a roll call vote was taken and answered with four no votes
cast by Mr. Kudera, Mr. Moriconi, Mr. Bushong and Mr. Dupps and two yes votes
cast by Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard. The motion to table this rezoning matter
was defeated 4-2 in favor.
30.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the zone change requested by LSI
Industries for an approximate 4.3 acre area located along the east side of
Turkeyfoot Road from R-1B to IP based on the KC&MP&Z Commission’s
recommendations. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. Roll call vote was answered
with 4 yes votes and 2 no votes cast by Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard. Mr.
Gabbard commented that he felt the city’s Planning & Zoning Committee should
review this matter before approving the request. Motion carried 4-2 in favor of
the zone change.
Resolution No. 2001-R-07 – Approving Payment of CDBG Monthly Expenses for the
Senior Center
31.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Bushong, there was a reading
of Resolution No. 2001-R-07 approving the payment of monthly expenses totaling
$82,643.00 for construction of the Senior Center. Mr. Ellison commented that he
would like the resolution to show the up-to-date detail of all the expenses and
revenues. Mayor Kriege replied that the Finance Director had provided that
information on a separate report. Mr. Ellison stated he would prefer to see
this detail on the resolution. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance –Pay Plan & Classification – 1st Reading
32.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance adopting a pay plan and classification. Mr. Kudera seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance by
title and summary.
Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
33.   Mr. Wendling reported that the four bids received for the construction of
the Memorial Park Amphitheatre ranged from $284,000 to $487,000. He advised the
total funding allocated for this project is $286,000 and was received from the
Kentucky Department of Local Government ($200,000), R.C. Durr ($75,000),
Cinergy ($5,000) and interest income ($6,000). Mr. Wendling stated that to date
the city has spent $30,000 in architect and engineering fees leaving a balance
of $256,000 for the construction. He advised that since the lowest bid exceeds
the amphitheatre account balance by $28,000 he recommended that council reject
all bids, review the project then re-bid. Mayor Kriege commented that the bids
were higher than anticipated and the lowest bid at $28,000 more than budgeted
could climb even higher if change orders emerge during the construction. Mr.
Moriconi stated that he would like to see the achievement of this project, as
it will be a unique attraction for the city. He stated he would like to see the
project modified so that the city can proceed. Mr. Wendling stated he would
work with the architect to this end and felt confident that modifications could
be accomplished without compromising the overall design. Mr. Bushong questioned
whether deleting one of the restrooms would be cost effective. Mr. Wendling
stated it would only save about $1,000. Mayor Kriege asked if the project was
bid at prevailing wage. Mr. Wendling replied that the bids did not include
prevailing wage. Mr. Walker stated that legally the city couldn’t accept these
bids if they are not prevailing wage.
34.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to reject all four bids received for the
construction of the Memorial Park Amphitheatre and to review the project in
order to keep the construction cost under the budgeted amount of $256,000. Mr.
Gabbard seconded the motion. Mr. Moriconi asked if this project had to be
completed by a certain date. Mr. Wendling replied that the city has until 2002
to construction the amphitheatre. Mr. Dupps asked what the architects’ time
frame was. Mr. Wendling replied that they would like to rebid within one month.
Mayor Kriege advised that new bids would probably be presented to council at
the September meeting. Mr. Dupps asked if the restrooms could be added later.
Mr. Wendling stated that alternate bids could be included in the bid packet so
that portions could be rejected in order to meet budget. There being no further
discussion, roll call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0 in
favor of rejecting all bids.
DEPARTMENT REPORTS
City Engineer – Dan Briggs
35.   Mr. Briggs reported on the street repairs projects. He advised that the
Holten Drive Repair Project in the Industrial Park is in need of an approximate
$32,000 change order to widen the turn lane, but that amount may be higher.
Mayor Kriege asked why this feature was not included in the original bid. Mayor
Kriege also expressed concern with approving a change order when the city
doesn’t know what the final number will be. Mr. Briggs stated that he just
learned of this need for a change order prior to the meeting. Mr. Gabbard
commented that the council hasn’t approved Phase II of this project yet.
36.   Mr. Briggs went on to say that he has not received direction from the
city as to which streets will receive repairs this summer; therefore no bids
have been let. Mr. Wendling refuted Mr. Briggs’ claim that he was not aware of
the streets to repair. Mayor Kriege supported Mr. Wendling by stating the
streets to be repaired; Roselawn, Rickey Lane, Adahi, etc., were discussed at
the Municipal Road Aid hearing held in June. Mr. Gabbard stated that the bids
should be prepared to get this process started. Mayor Kriege agreed. Mr. Briggs
asked about Beechgrove Drive. Mr. Wendling stated that Beechgrove Drive would
be added to repair the recent damage by the installation of water lines. He
stated the Water District would share this expense. Mr. Ellison commented that
Beechgrove Drive should have been scheduled for repairs in accordance with the
five-year street repairs plan.
37.   There was a brief discussion regarding the budgeted funds for road
repairs and it was decided that Mr. Wendling would meet with Mr. Briggs to
profile the budgeted funds with the bid specifications he has prepared. He
suggested that Beechgrove Drive have a minimum four-inch overlay. Mayor Kriege
stated that the Public Works Committee would review the necessary repairs for
that street at the next meeting. Mr. Ellison cautioned that a four-inch overlay
would be costly.
Zoning Administration – Rich McAllister
38.   Mr. McAllister reviewed his report with council and advised that the
report is sorted two ways, by status and street name. He advised council that
he issued twenty-seven civil citations in June, two of which have been opposed
and will go before the Code Enforcement Board on July 23, 2001. Mr. McAllister
identified 5323 Madison Pike (Kenton County Motors) as a problem area, but
stated they have somewhat cleaned up the storage.
39.   Mr. Bushong asked Mr. McAllister the status of 1020 Mt. Zion Road. Mr.
McAllister stated the property was cited and that the property owner paid the
fine and he will work with the owner to solve the problem. Mayor Kriege
interjected that the city may have issued a zoning permit improperly a couple
of years ago and that the matter is being reviewed.
40.   Mr. Dupps asked if Finke Homes was complying with grass maintenance at
the entrance of the Independence Pointe Subdivision. Mr. Ellison commented that
the property seems to be routinely cut right before the council meetings.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith
41.   Mayor Kriege advised that Mr. Smith was unable to attend this meeting
because he had a funeral to attend. He advised that Mr. Smith’s report is in
the council packet and if there are questions to submit them to Mr. Wendling or
call Mr. Smith at the office.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake
42.   Ms. Brake reported the Memorial Park sign has been installed. She stated
that the July 4th Celebration plans are in place and announced there will be a
city float in the parade and urged the council members to participate. Ms.
Brake stated the parade would begin at 1:00 p.m., with all day events before
the evening fireworks scheduled for 10:00 p.m. She stated that shuttle busses
would be available for overflow parking.
43.   Mr. Ellison reported that he had noticed vandalism to the south side of
the Staggs Park shelter building. He stated this appeared to be fresh paint on
the building. Ms. Brake felt this was from an old incident but stated she would
investigate the matter.
Building Inspector – Kevin Barbian
44.   Mr. Barbian advised his report was inserted in the council packets. He
also informed Mr. Gabbard that he was working on the sidewalks and will review
this at the next Planning & Zoning Committee meeting.
Police Department – Chief Shawn Butler
45.   Chief Butler reported that last month the police department responded to
1447 calls, made 29 physical arrests and issued 140 citations. He stated that
the Summer Fun Camp Bike Rodeos that have been held at various locations
throughout the city was well received with 267 children participating.
46.   Chief Butler informed council that a rolling roadblock would be put into
place during the approximate one hour that the July 4th parade will take to
pass on Madison Pike. So the traffic in that area will be stopped or slow
moving between approximately one and two o’clock. He stated the Citizens’
Police Academy will sponsor a dunking booth at the July 4th festivities and he
extended an invitation to all city officials to sit in the booth.
47.   In closing, Chief Butler reported that Patrol Officer Mat Mullins has
resigned to take a position with the Boone County Sheriff’s Office.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
48.   No Report.
Building Committee
49.   No Report.
Personnel & Administration Committee
50.   No June meeting. Mr. Bushong stated the next meeting is scheduled for
July 10, 2001.
Planning & Zoning Committee
51.   Mr. Ellison stated the committee did not meet. He reported that the
members of the Board of Adjustment along with the City Administrator, Building
Inspector and the Planning & Zoning Committee members attended a six-hour
training session in order to meet the training requirements as established by
House Bill 55.
Public Safety Committee
52.   Mr. Dupps reported that the police substation is now in use. He also
stated that the new police badges and patches have been received. The committee
is also reviewing a plan to reorganize the department. He stated the next
meeting of this committee will be held on July 17, 2001 at 5:30 p.m.
Public Works Committee
53.   Mr. Gabbard stated this committee will meet on July 11, 2001
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
54.   Mayor Kriege encouraged everyone to come out for the daylong events
planned for the July 4th Celebration, beginning with the parade at 1:00 p.m.,
which will assemble at the Summit View Schools parking lot. Councilman Dupps
reminded everyone to use caution around fireworks.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
55.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Dupps the council went into
executive session. Motion carried with all ayes.
56.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Kudera the council resumed the
regular session of the meeting. Motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion of Contract with Building Inspector for Zoning & Other Related
Services
57.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to approve the proposed contract, with the
deletion of section 2 (c), with Mr. Kevin Barbian for building inspection and
other related services. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. A brief discussion
ensued. Mr. Gabbard stated he did not feel the city should compensate Mr.
Barbian to attend council and committee meetings. Mr. Moriconi asked if council
really wanted to eliminate Mr. Barbian’s needed presence at the meetings. Mr.
Kudera asked who would determine if Mr. Barbian’s presence would be needed. Mr.
Wendling stated that he or the mayor would make that decision. Mr. Ellison felt
that all zoning related matters should be directed to Mr. McAllister of the
NKAPC. Mr. Barbian stated that it is easier to assist Mr. McAllister in many
matters as he is in the city office every day. Mr. Gabbard stated that over the
course of one year the city would be paying an additional $2,000 to $3,000 for
Mr. Barbian’s services. Mayor Kriege advised council that if they did not agree
to compensate Mr. Barbian $20/hour to assist in zoning related matters that
there will be a void in services that he is now providing for free. Mr. Gabbard
stated that if there is enough work for an in-house zoning administrator then
the city should hire a full time employee for this job.
58.   Roll call was taken at this time and was answered with three yes votes
and three no votes cast by Mr. Kudera, Mr. Moriconi and Mr. Bushong. Mayor
Kriege broke the tie by casting a no vote. The motion was defeated 4-3.
59.   Mr. Kudera commented that he felt the council was being pennywise and
pound-foolish by not wanting to pay for necessary services. Mayor Kriege
suggested that the agenda format be amended so that the contracted personnel
could report at the beginning of the meetings and leave afterward. Mr. Dupps
suggested that section 2 (c) be amended to compensate Mr. Barbian $20.00 per
hour for performing zoning-related matters and delete the same compensation for
attendance at meetings.
60.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Kudera, section two (c) of the
proposed contract with Kevin Barbian would be amended to delete compensation
for attendance at council/committee meetings while keeping the wordage to
compensate him at the rate of $20.00 per hour for performing zoning-related
matters. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by
Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
Adjournment
61.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Gabbard the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting closed at 10:10 p.m.
____________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
AUGUST 6, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard,
Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance was City
Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the July 2, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular council
meeting of July 2, 2001, as submitted. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Presentation of Proclamations
3.   Mayor Kriege announced that the city was prepared to present proclamations
to Hometown Pizza and Century 21 Garner Properties to acknowledge the recent
improvements made to their buildings in the downtown area. Since a
representative was not yet present from each company, the mayor moved on with
the agenda.
Senior Center Board of Directors
4.   Mayor Kriege introduced Phil Turner and Kurt Keeney, members of the Senior
Center Board of Directors and advised council they would give an update of the
activities of the Board.
5.   Mr. Turner addressed council regarding the Capital Campaign Fund Drive
that has been launched in an effort to raise $100,000. These funds will be used
to furnish the kitchen area of the Senior Center with commercial grade
appliances and equipment, as well as tables and chairs. Mr. Turner stated that
to date they have received $16,500 in donations. He stated that they will
accept donations on a three year commitment. In addition to the Capital
Campaign Fund Drive, he stated the Board of Directors is commencing a
membership campaign. Mr. Turner stated that membership dues is $12.00 per
person per year. He stated that while membership is encouraged, no one will be
turned away and that sponsorships will be available. He stated that this would
provide annual support for the facility and encouraged the council members to
obtain membership. He informed council that the Board is also seeking corporate
donations who will be recognized at different levels based on the amount of
funding contributed by the corporation.
6.   Mr. Kurt Keeney informed council that all local business that have been
approached to donate to the Center have provided positive response and shows
there is a lot of support for this Center in the business community. He stated
that Donna Yeager is the chairman of the membership campaign.
7.   Mr. Kudera asked if the entire $100,000 would be used for kitchen
equipment. Mr. Turner stated that after the kitchen is equipped the remaining
funds would be used to purchase other furniture, office equipment, etc. Mr.
Moriconi stated he felt it was important that the residents understand that all
citizens will operate this facility as a Senior and Community Center for use.
Mr. Turner stated that for funding purposes the facility is now being referred
to as a Senior Center, but that future activities will encompass a multi-
generational community.
8.   In closing, Mr. Turner voiced appreciation for Mr. Wendling’s support and
guidance to the Board of Directors.
Discussion of the Defunct Hunters’ Green Homeowners Association and the Common
Grounds
9.   Ms. Tammy Dorgan, 3917 Gunstock Court, addressed council regarding the
lake behind her property that is the ‘common green space area’ originally owned
and maintained by the Hunters’ Green Homeowners Association that went defunct
many years ago.
10.   Ms. Dorgan stated that when she purchased her house a few years ago that
the lake was very picturesque and was an attraction that encouraged her to
purchase this particular home. But over the years she stated the depth of the
water has decreased and the little remaining water has become stagnant causing
both a health and safety concern. Ms. Dorgan stated she has contacted both the
Health Department and the E.P.A. to assist in resolving this matter, only to
have both agencies tell her to go to the city for help. She stated that she was
here, along with some other neighbors, to ask council to make the necessary
repairs to restore the lake to its’ original condition. She distributed photos
of the lake area for council to review.
11.   Mayor Kriege expressed his appreciation to Ms. Dorgan and the others in
attendance regarding this matter for taking the time to present their concern
to council. He stated that he would have the City Engineer and City
Administrator to investigate the matter.
12.   Mr. Wendling, City Administrator, referred council to a letter from the
city engineer in their council packets. He stated that the engineer’s
inspection revealed that the pond is on private property (owned by the former
Hunters Green Subdivision Homeowners Association) and that the water level of
he pond appears to have been about eight feet higher than the current level.
The engineer also reports that a dam on the north side of he pond has broken
and there is a large notch eroded in the dam. The report also reveals that a
vertical pipe extends about eight feet above the water level that used to be
the outlet for the water from the pond. Mr. Wendling advised that the engineer
believes that the majority of the decrease in water depth is a result of the
dam eroding away. It is also believed that the construction of the Apple Valley
Drive apartments caused some sedimentation in the pond, which also increased
the amount of storm water into the pond thus resulting in the dam eroding at a
faster pace.
13.   Mr. Wendling informed council that the developer (from Houston, Texas) of
the Hunters Green Subdivision is no longer in business. He stated that in his
discussions with the city attorney, he learned that the only way to revive the
Homeowners’ Association would be by court order. He expressed his concern for
the city’s liability if council would decide to go onto this private property
to make repairs. He cautioned council to be certain what, if any, action they
wanted to take regarding this situation. In closing, he stated that the
maintenance of this ‘common area’ in this subdivision seems to recur on a
regular basis and that he recommended council to bring closure to the matter.
14.   Mayor Kriege asked the City Engineer, Dave Whitacre, for his input. Mr.
Whitacre gave a brief overview of his inspection of the pond area, which lies
in a common area listed as Common Area H at the rear of lots 140 through 145
and part of lot 146 (3913 thru 3917 Gunstock Court) in the Hunters Green
Subdivision. He stated that when the homeowners association went defunct there
was no one in charge of maintenance and the areas gradually became a marsh area
with debris.
15.   Mr. Whitacre suggested two options that could be put in place to maintain
the area. The first option would be to breech the dam completely which would
provide some storm water detention and the second option would be to repair the
dam and install an overflow pipe. He informed council that these repairs would
probably be in the area of $10,000. Engineering design would be an extra
expense. He also mentioned that the pond could revert into a weedy open field
Mr. Whitacre advised council that no easements exist for the city and that the
city has no investment or right to be on the property.
16.   Ms. Dorgan stated she would hate to see the pond filled in but if that is
the only option they would approve it. She expressed concern that no one is
responsible for this land and that that is the bigger problem.
17.   Mayor Kriege stated that the bigger issue for the city is stepping onto
property that is privately owned. City Attorney, Lawson Walker advised that
this is not in the city’s jurisdiction, especially regarding the health
concerns, which is clearly the responsibility of the Health Department. He went
on to say that he has advised the city that they will be liable if they take
over maintenance of the property and has advised against it. Mayor Kriege
suggested fixing the dam on the pond and then conveying the property over to
the abutting property owners. Mr. Walker advised that the city couldn’t convey
land it doesn’t own. Mayor Kriege suggested condemning the land. Mr. Walker
advised that condemnation would be an option, but a costly option for the city.
He stated he would have to research the property title in order to further
advise on that. Mr. Gabbard stated that in 1995-96 the city attorney at that
time researched this matter and suggested searching city records for the
findings of that research. Mr. Ellison suggested another alternative; allowing
the city attorney to provide legal advise to the residents in the subdivision
in order to revive the homeowners association. Mr. Walker stated that the
residents could not be forced to join the homeowners association unless this
was a provision of the covenant documents. He stated he is not an expert, but
there is probably very little leverage to force this.
18.   Ms. Dorgan said that she might consider a homeowners association but
agreed that others can’t be forced to join. She also was concerned how a
homeowners association would recover common area land that had been taken over
by adjoining property owners to extend their yard.
19.   Mrs. Dorgan appealed to council to breech the dam. She stated that she
feared she would not be able to sell her house with the abutting pond that has
become an eyesore and safety hazard.
20.   Mr. Kudera voiced his concern for the property owners dilemma and
suggested that the abutting residents share the $10,000 estimate (by the city
engineer) to make the necessary repairs to the pond. He stated that at roughly
$1,880 per resident, this would be a reasonable amount in order to maintain
their property values. Mr. Kudera went on to say that he could not consent to
the city taking on this maintenance and liability. He stated that the property
owners should make the necessary repairs and then take over the property since
there is no one to contest this action. He stated that the city would be
establishing a precedent if they agreed to go onto this private property to
make the repairs, thus making the city liable. He stated this would not be fair
to the rest of the city.
21.   Ms. Dorgan stated that she just assumed the property behind her was
public property and knows now that was a wrong assumption. Mr. Ellison
commented that this subdivision was developed before it was annexed into the
city. Mayor Kriege commented that he would like to help but that the liability
is a major issue for the city to consider.
22.   Mr. Bushong commented that the Beechgrove Homeowners Association spends
about $81,000 per year for the upkeep of the Beechgrove lakes. He stated that
he fears Ms. Dorgan will not get resident support to revive the homeowners
association, but suggested she check plats, etc. to see what area is ‘common’
before moving forward with the idea. Mr. Bushong went on to say that he is very
concerned with this situation but shares equal concern regarding the liability
for the city. He stated he would be in favor of helping in some way. Discussion
centered on suggestions to fill in the lake without hindering the residents
downstream with storm water runoff.
23.   Mr. Gabbard stated his awareness of the serious situation with this pond,
but that in terms of the city’s liabilities and amount of funds for the needed
repairs, felt the city was not in a position to assist the residents. He also
suggested the city would be setting a precedent, especially in light of the
current developments in the city that have planned homeowners associations to
maintain the common area in the subdivision. He feared that if those
associations also go defunct, they too, would look to the city to maintain the
common areas.
24.   Mr. Walker stated there area laws to solve this situation, one of which
is called ‘adverse possession’. But he stated that these type of legal
processes are very expensive and time consuming with the value of the land
added to their property much less than the cost of the legal proceedings to
acquire it. He stated that another big concern with condemnation by the city
would be the flow of the water after the pond is repaired. The city would then
be liable to any damage to the property owners downstream. He stated the flow
of water would need to be studied and evaluated by the city engineer prior to
any repairs.
25.   Mr. Ellison voiced empathy for the resident’s dilemma, but expressed
reservations with using tax dollars to make repairs on private property.
26.   Mr. Ken Ziegler, 3911 Gunstock Court, addressed council. He stated the
pond is not holding water. He also shared the same concerns of Ms. Dorgan
regarding the health and safety issues.
27.   Mr. Kudera stated that he was inclined to make a motion to split the
$10,000 repair estimate with the residents in order to begin the process of
correcting this problem, as this is an issue that is been ongoing for some
time. He reiterated his feeling that the residents would need to help fund this
repairs in order to maintain their own property values. He stated that he feels
this would be a fair compromise with the residents while keeping the city free
of liability.
28.   Mr. Walker stated that the city may be able to seek liability indemnity
from these residents but can’t insulate liability from third parties and
advised the city could be left ‘holding the bag’ if these repairs are done
under the backing of the city. He restated that this pond is on private
property.
29.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to offer the Hunters Green Subdivision residents
$5,000.000 to be used to research a solution to making repairs to the pond
adjoining some of the properties on Gunstock Court. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. Discussion on the motion ensued. Mr. Gabbard asked if this $5,000 would
be used for engineering fees. Mr. Kudera stated that was not part of the
motion. Mr. Gabbard asked if contributing these funds would hold the city
liable. Mr. Walker affirmed that this could bring potential liability to the
city.
30.   Mr. Whitacre suggested tabling a decision on this matter for a month so
that he can prepare cost estimates and report back at the September council
meeting. Mr. Gabbard stated that he would agree to that but that the city
doesn’t have funds to appropriate to private property. Mr. Kudera requested
that his motion be brought to a vote to see what the consensus of council was.
Mr. Moriconi stated he would like more engineering information before voting to
allocate $5,000 to this venture. Mr. Gabbard questioned where the city would
take money for this in this year’s budget. Mr. Wendling again cautioned council
that they will be setting a precedent by allocating money for maintenance on
private property and that other groups will expect the same consideration. Mr.
Dupps suggested that recent repairs made on Holten Drive were similar in being
that the property was private. Mayor Kriege remarked that repairs made to
Holten Drive was not private property but a public right of way.
31.   At this time roll call was taken on Mr. Kudera’s motion and Mr. Dupps
second to contribute $5,000 toward finding a solution to the pond behind
Gunstock Court. Roll call was answered with five no votes and one yes vote cast
by Mr. Dupps. Motion failed 5-1 opposing.
32.   Mayor Kriege asked council if there was support to table this matter
until the September meeting, as suggested by the City Engineer, when Mr.
Whitacre will return to council with his recommendations.
33.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Bushong the matter was
tabled for a month until the city engineer returns to council with his
recommendations. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving LSI Industries Map Amendment for Zone Change –
1st Reading
34.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Moriconi there was a first
reading of the proposed ordinance to rezone 4.3 acres along the east side of
Turkeyfoot Road between Industrial road and Bottomwood Drive from R-1B to IP.
No roll call; motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
35.   There was a brief discussion on the wording in this ordinance. Mr.
Ellison stated that the wording was a little suggestive that Bottomwood Drive
was rezoned. Mr. Walker stated that the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission supplied this definition for the ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Fischer Homes (Sycamore Creek Subd) Map
Amendment for Zone Change – 1st Reading
36.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Bushong there was a first
reading of the proposed ordinance rezoning an approximate seventy-seven acre
tract located along the east side of Fowler Creek Road between Senour Road and
Cox Road from R-1A and R-1C to R-1D. Motion carried with all ayes and Mr.
Walker read the proposed ordinance.
37.   A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Gabbard raised concerns about a timeline
for the installation of the turn lane on Fowler Creek Road. He wondered if the
Kentucky Highway Standards mandated a completion date for this condition of the
development. Mr. Walker stated that it does not state specifically when the
turn lane is to be installed. Mr. Gabbard stated that he felt the city needed
to address this detail of the development and suggested the turn lane be
completed by the time the first house is constructed. Mr. Walker advised that
this condition could be specified in the ordinance and made the revision.
38.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to amend the first reading of the proposed
ordinance for this rezoning to include this provision. Mr. Bushong seconded the
motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance. Ms. Elizabeth Horowitz, legal counsel for Grand Communities
Ltd. (Fischer Homes) requested that the wording of the ordinance be revised to
state that the turn lane be installed before the Certificate of Occupancy is
issued on the first house constructed. Mr. Gabbard hesitated to consider that
as he felt several other houses could be built even though the first house had
not sold. Ms. Horowitz argued that additional traffic would not be generated if
there were no occupants in the newly constructed houses. Mr. Gabbard stated the
city needed to have a definitive time for the turn lane. Mr. Dupps stated that
the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy is a definite time frame. Mr.
Moriconi concurred. Mr. Gabbard agreed to amend his motion to state the turn
lane shall be completely constructed and operational prior to the issuance of
the Certificate of Occupancy for the first house constructed. Roll call was
answered with six yes votes in favor. Motion carried and Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance with the amendment.
Award Bid for Phase II of the Holten Drive Repair Project
39.   City Engineer, Dave Whitacre reported that the low bidder of the Holten
Drive Repair Project was JPS Construction at a total cost of $134,820.00, which
was proposed in May. He stated that JPS has agreed to extend the bid price
beyond the ninety-day term for Phase II, which was bid at $79,042.50. He
advised the other bidders of the Phase II were Michels Paving, Quast Paving &
Sealing and Barrett Paving. He stated Michels Paving submitted the lowest bid
for Phase II at $76,795.00, but that the overall lowest bid for the entire
project was by JPS Construction. Mr. Whitacre stated that it was difficult to
make a recommendation to award this bid due to the uncertainty of the amount of
asphalt that will be needed. He stated that for bid purposes it was estimated
that 350 yards of concrete work would be required but that this amount could
change. Mr. Dupps asked if he was satisfied with the work performed on Phase I
by JPS Construction. Mr. Whitacre stated that the work was satisfactory,
although he fire hydrant has not been relocated yet as they are waiting for a
wet tap. Mr. Bushong questioned the contingency bid items. Mr. Whitacre
explained that the unit price bidding is based on the estimate of 610 tons,
which is the only fair way to bid this type project. He stated that if you hold
a “not to exceed price” then the contractors up their bid price by twenty
percent or put down thinner layers of asphalt.
40.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to award the Phase II bid of the Holten Drive
Repair Project to Michels Paving and authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into this
contract. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all
ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
OTHER OLD BUSINESS
41.   Mayor Kriege asked if council had any other old business to discuss. Mr.
Gabbard stated that the current check register omits several check numbers.
Mayor Kriege stated this will be reviewed and a written response will be
submitted explaining this omission.
42.   Mr. Ellison requested that they city inspect the water lines and fire
hydrants in the Troopers Crossing development off of Cody Road. He stated that
it appears these lines and hydrants have not been installed per specifications.
Mayor Kriege advised the city would look into this matter and report back.
43.   Mr. Dupps asked if a city representative was able to meet with Ms. Wade
regarding her water drainage problem on her property (640 Willow Drive). Mr.
Wendling stated the city has made an inspection and that his report on this
matter is included in his memo to council.
Resolution No. 2001-R-08 – Approving The Monthly Payment of CDBG Funds
44.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Kudera Resolution No. 2001-
R-08 was read and approved for the payment of $205,364,70 to Mark Spaulding
Construction Company for expenses incurred in July. Roll call was answered with
all ayes. Motion carried and Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2001-R-08.
Approval of a Master Lease-Purchase Agreement with Fifth Third Bank for Ten
Cruisers
45.   Mr. Wendling informed council that the police department has acquired the
ten vehicles that will replace some of the aging and leased vehicles. He stated
that the city has saved $7,000 by purchasing the vehicles now instead of
waiting until the spring. Chief Butler reminded council that the purchase of
these ten vehicles was included in the current budget. He added that Fifth
Third Bank requires the execution of a Lease-Purchase Agreement to complete the
necessary paperwork for the financing at a rate of 4.5% interest. Mr. Gabbard
asked how much was financed and for how long. Chief Butler advised that the ten
vehicles were purchased with the city making an annual payment of $72,000 for
three years.
46.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into a master
lease-purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank to finance the purchase of the
ten vehicles for the police department. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance Amending Ordinance 1994-O-18A Regarding the Fowler Creek
Sewer Debt Reduction – 1st Reading
47.   Mr. Kudera made a motion made a motion to have a first reading of the
proposed ordinance to amend Ordinance 1994-O-18A regarding the collection of
the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt Reduction assessment. Mr. Moriconi seconded the
motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Gabbard stated that he had between 3-
5 callers that voiced concern regarding the payment being made to the city on
an annual basis instead of the quarterly payment to the Sanitation District.
Mr. Bushong stated he also had a few calls. Mr. Wendling explained the city
would continue to work with residents that have difficulty paying a lump sum
payment. He advised council that billing this assessment quarterly would be
costly for the city in terms of updating computer software, postage and staff
labor. Mr. Ellison expressed his concern that payment of the $280 annual
assessment at the end of the year would be cumbersome for some residents. Mrs.
Taney, City Clerk assured council that the city would assist individual
residents who request additional time to make this payment, as has been
provided in the past with other water and sewer assessments. No roll call;
motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Setting the Trash Assessment Rate for 2001 at $91.16 per
Unit – 1st Reading
48.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Gabbard there was a first
reading of the proposed ordinance setting the trash assessment rate at $91.16
per mobile home and residential unit for the year 2001. No roll call; motion
carried with all ayes. Mayor Kriege stated the proposed rate is up roughly
$2.00 over last year’s rate. He also advised council that the city is in the
last year of a five-year contract with Rumpke. He stated this contract would
need to be re-bid before it expires the end of April 2002. Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance by title only.
Resolution No. 2001-R-09 – Entering an Interlocal Agreement with the Northern
Ky. Water District for the Reconstruction of Beechgrove Drive
49.   Mayor Kriege presented to council a proposed resolution that would
authorize him to sign an agreement for improvements by and between the city and
the Northern Kentucky Water District for the reconstruction of Beechgrove
Drive. He explained the Water District would contribute $27,500 toward this
street project.
50.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to read Resolution No. 2001-R-09 that would
authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into an agreement with the Water District for
the repair project on Beechgrove Drive. Mr. Gabbard seconded the motion. No
roll called; motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Walker read the resolution.
51.   Mr. Ellison requested the repairs be completed before the cold weather
arrives.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 2001/02 Budget Ordinance – 1st Reading
52.   Mr. Wendling presented to council an ordinance that would amend the
current budget Ordinance No. 2001-O-05. He explained that the city has
experienced some expenses early in this fiscal year, which were expected to be
paid out of the 2000/01 budget. Many expenses and projects were estimated to be
paid and/or completed in June. He cited the Senior Center construction and
lights in the park as two projects that were not completed in June. He also
stated that the budget needs to be amended to include the $50,000 T-21 grant
the city has received to construct sidewalks along a section of Madison Pike,
from Hartland Subdivision to Walnut Hall Drive. Mayor Kriege advised that most
of these changes are basically a re-appropriation of funds from last year’s
budget to this year’s budget.
53.   Mr. Gabbard questioned why the change orders for the construction of the
Senior Center have been so high. He felt these things should have been in the
original bid. Mr. Wendling stated that changes have been architectural in
nature and not construction changes. He stated that contractor submitted the
bid according to specs. He stated there have been several code issues that were
missed by the architect. Mr. Gabbard suggested the architect pay for the change
orders if there were flaws with the design. He stated he understand the city
has to build to code but that these expensive change orders are hard on the
city budget. Mayor Kriege stated that it would be desirable to have a capital
project without change orders, but to expect that would be unrealistic. He
stated that architects couldn’t guarantee that every item will not be
overlooked.
54.   Mr. Ellison asked if the city had money in the budget to match the
$50,000 grant funds received for the sidewalks. Mr. Wendling stated the city
only had to match $20,000. Mayor Kriege advised the city could pay the cost of
‘in kind’ services, such as engineering fees, etc. for the balance. Mr. Bushong
asked when the sidewalks would be installed. Mr. Wendling stated the city would
soon begin the process to request the funds, have the bid specs drafted then
advertise for bids.
55.   Mr. Ellison asked if additional change orders for the Senior Center were
expected. Mayor Kriege and Mr. Wendling replied that they hoped not.
56.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Ellison to have a first
reading of the proposed ordinance to amend the 2001/02 budget. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor and Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT – Mark T. Wendling
57.   Award of Bid for Asphalt Overlays on Beechgrove Drive and Roselawn Drive
- Mr. Wendling referred council to the Calendar of Events he submitted in his
written report. He reported that bids have been received for the 2001/02 street
reconstruction and overlay projects. Mr. Whitacre presented a tabulation sheet
of the bids received for the asphalt maintenance and the concrete
reconstruction projects. He stated the that two bids were received for the
asphalt overlays on Beechgrove Drive and Roselawn Drive; Paul Michels & Sons in
the amount of $70,646.00 and Barrett Paving in the amount of $72,488.60. Mr.
Wendling advised council that Beechgrove Drive badly needs the repairs and
recommended awarding the bid for the asphalt repairs so that the contractor
could move quickly on this project.
58.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into a
contract with Paul Michels & Sons for the asphalt overlay repairs on Beechgrove
Drive and Roselawn Drive in the amount of $70,646.00. Mr. Ellison seconded the
motion. Mr. Ellison asked Mr. Whitacre if he thought the blacktop fiberglass
was beneficial on overlay projects. Mr. Whitacre stated that the material keeps
water from getting into the joints and that sometimes he recommends this
material be used, but eventually the material will develop small cracks,
generally within a year or two. Mr. Ellison asked if he thought it would be
worthwhile to spend an additional $12,000 to install the material on Beechgrove
Drive. Mr. Whitacre stated that would be difficult to determine, as it might
help, but felt it may not be worth the added expense on this particular street
with only a single overly. Mr. Whitacre added that he did not feel the material
would benefit Roselawn Drive. At this time roll call was taken and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor of awarding the asphalt repairs to
Paul Michels & Sons in the amount of $70,646.00
59.   Mr. Wendling recommended that council delay awarding the concrete repairs
for Adahi Drive and Rickey Lane until the second reading of the amended 2001/
02-budget ordinance when the funds will be available. Mayor Kriege stated that
a special council meeting may be scheduled later this month and asked the clerk
to poll the council for a date that would be available for the council members.
Mr. Gabbard stated that he would be unavailable beyond next week.
60.   Update on Feasibility Study for Municipal Buildings – Mr. Wendling
reported that the scope of the project has changed due to cost concerns at the
proposed construction sites. He stated that Matrix Architects has been asked to
extend the scope, which will require the city to contribute another $2,500
toward the investment in this project. He recommended that council support this
additional expense and advised the funds could be expended from the Building
Fund. Mayor Kriege advised the completed feasibility study should be ready to
present to the Building Committee later this month with a presentation to the
entire council at the September meeting.
61.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to approve a change order approving an
additional $2,500 in expenses to complete the feasibility study for municipal
buildings. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four
yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried
4-2 in favor.
62.   Police Department Command Restructure – Mr. Wendling asked Chief Butler
to address council regarding his proposal for a command restructure of the
police department. Chief Butler advised that he had spoken individually with
each council member.
63.   Geneva Wade Property, 640 Willow Drive – Mayor Kriege asked for an update
on the inspection of Mrs. Wade’s property. Mr. Wendling stated that he, along
with Mr. Whitacre and Mr. Smith of the Public Works Department inspected the
property on August 1, 2001, as well as reviewed videotapes taken on the
property before construction. Mr. Wendling stated there is some questions on
the condition of the rear property before construction began. He stated that
Ms. Wade also claims that the repeated overlays of the street have raised the
pavement above the level of her driveway, which has added to the drainage
problems. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Whitacre what course of action he recommended.
Mr. Whitacre stated that he would bring a full report to the September meeting
that will include construction plans, etc. Mr. Wendling stated the report would
also include inspection of the street that may have been raised.
64.   Mr. Art Ziegler, 636 Willow Drive stated that he is a neighbor of Ms.
Wades’ for the past 1-1/2 years. He reiterated Ms. Wade’s claim that the city
engineer inspected the property last year and advised that a natural spring had
been hit. He stated that his property also has a ten-foot by twenty-foot swampy
area that is a breeding ground for mosquitoes and a health and safety concern
for his small children. He stated he has a videotape of the drainage problem
during a rainstorm. He suggested the city finding a solution to diverting the
water. Mayor Kriege stated the city would look at last year documents to see if
there is a report of a natural spring being hit. Ms. Wade stated she was not
aware of springs in the area before the sewer pipes were installed. Mr. Gabbard
commented that there are natural springs all over the city. Mr. Wendling stated
that the pre-construction video reveals the area on Ms. Wade’s property was
overgrown. Ms. Wade disputed Mr. Wendling’s assertion and stated he must have
looked at the wrong property. Mayor Kriege suggested presenting a viewing of
the video at the September meeting. He advised Ms. Wade that the city may not
give her the answer she is looking for but that the city will provide her with
a definite response in an effort to settle this matter. Mr. Ziegler stated that
they just wanted the city to return the property to it’s original condition and
get the water diverted. He stated that easements were provided to the city so
the city should fix this area. Mayor Kriege advised the city would fix it only
if it has been determined that the city is responsible for the problem. He
advised Mr. Ziegler that the city would not make repairs on private property
unless the city council deems the city is responsible. Mr. Ziegler asked if the
council would view his videotape that was filmed showing the water runoff
during a rainstorm. Mayor Kriege stated the city would view that tape along
with the pre-construction video at next month’s meeting.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
65.   Chairman, Mr. Kudera stated the committee met with representatives of
Fifth Third Bank to discuss the security funds. He stated the funds are
currently earning a 6-1/2 to 7 % return rate, which is good in light of the
current market.
Building Committee
66.   Chairman, Mr. Moriconi stated that the construction of the Senior Center
is progressing. Also, the amphitheatre is undergoing a re-design then will be
put out for bids.
Personnel & Administration Committee
67.   Chairman, Mr. Bushong stated the committee met to discuss the command
restructure of the police department, which was received favorably by the
committee.
Planning & Zoning Committee
68.   Chairman, Mr. Ellison stated he was absent from the meeting but that Mr.
Wendling led the meeting in his absence. Mr. Wendling stated the committee
discussed flag lot issues. He stated a resident has addressed the committee
regarding the possibility of developing the rear section. He stated the
committee would look at the request and consider a possible solution.
Public Safety Committee
69.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps reported the committee has reviewed traffic control
in the Battle Ridge Subdivision. The committee is also taking a broader look
with the Route 17 reconstruction. He reported the police department is in the
process of purchasing ten new cruisers. Mr. Dupps also reported the committee
supports the reorganization of the command structure of the department. He
stated the next meeting would be held on August 21, 2001 at 5:30 p.m. in the
offices of the police department.
Public Works Committee
70.   Chairman, Mr. Gabbard stated the committee was unable to meet on July 11
or July 18 due to a lack of a quorum. He stated they would try to schedule a
meeting next week.
Miscellaneous
71.   Mr. Dupps announced that National Night Out would be held at Memorial
Park tomorrow night from 7-9 p.m.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
72.   Mayor Kriege followed up with Mr. Dupps announcement by explaining that
National Night Out was a showcase for the police and fire departments. He
stated that both departments would present demonstrations regarding safety.
Chief Butler commented that this is a national event and the first time it has
been observed by the Independence departments.
73.   Mayor Kriege reminded council to make their reservations for the Northern
Kentucky Area Development District’s annual awards banquet that will be held on
August 20, 2001 at Receptions Conference Center.
74.   Mayor Kriege also reviewed the Calendar of Events for the month that was
provided by Mr. Wendling.
Discussion of Board of Adjustments Decision regarding the Lamar Sign near Pelly
Rd. & Route 17
75.   Mr. Ellison asked Mr. Walker to explain the variance granted by the Board
of Adjustments allowing Lamar Signs to rebuild the billboard sign at the corner
of Pelly Road and Route 17. He stated the original sign was removed by the
Highway Department to construct the new connector road between old Route 17 and
new route 17. Mr. Ellison expressed his concern that granting Lamar permission
to rebuild this sign is beyond the scope of the Board and stated that he would
like to see the city appeal the Board’s decision. There was a brief discussion
regarding this decision by the Board of Adjustment. Mr. Ellison requested that
Mr. Walker review this decision to see if the Board was right or wrong. He
stated that if the city wants to appeal this decision, that the deadline to do
that is quickly approaching.
76.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to instruct the city attorney to immediately
review the Board of Adjustment ruling of the appeal made by Lamar Sign and file
an appeal in circuit court on behalf of the city, if necessary, within the
thirty-day appeal procedure. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
PROCLAMATION – Honoring Hometown Pizza
77.   Mayor Kriege presented a proclamation to Hometown Pizza for their recent
renovations to the restaurant located in the Renaissance designated area of
downtown Independence.
ADJOURNMENT
78.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Moriconi the meeting was
closed. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 9:48 p.m.
         ___________________________________
         Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
AUGUST 21, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the special meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. at the
Independence Fire District Station #1. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps,
Jim Ellison, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member
Ike Gabbard were absent. Also in attendance was City Administrator, Mark T.
Wendling and City Attorney, Jeffrey S. Smith sitting in for H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was to
discuss and take action on the following agenda items:
§   Proposed ordinance approving the LSI Industries map amendment
§   Proposed ordinance approving Fischer Homes (Sycamore Creek Subd.) map
amendment
§   Proposed ordinance setting the trash assessment rate for 2001
§   Proposed ordinance amending Ordinance No. 1994-O-18A regarding the
collection of the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt Reduction assessment
§   Proposed ordinance amending the 2001/02 budget ordinance
§   Proposed ordinance setting the real estate and personal property tax rates
for 2001
§   Proposed ordinance creating the position of Assistant Police Chief
§   Proposed ordinance adopting a Pay Plan and Classification for employees
§   Award the bid for concrete street repairs
§   An executive session
§   Building Inspector’s contract with the city
Ordinance No. 2001-O-08 – Approving a Map Amendment for LSI Industries on
Turkeyfoot Road – 2nd Reading
3.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Bushong there was a second
reading of the proposed ordinance to approve the map amendment for an
approximate area of 4.3 acres along the east side of Turkeyfoot Road changing
the zone from R-1B to IP. Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Kriege
questioned “Attachment A” which was not attached to the ordinance. The City
Clerk advised that the attachment contained the description of the parcel that
the zone change affected which had not been received by the city yet. Mayor
Kriege advised council they could delay approving this map amendment until the
parcel description is received if they were hesitant to do so without it. Roll
call was answered with four yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Ellison.
Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-09 – Approving Sycamore Creek Subdivision Map Amendment –
2nd Reading
4.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Moriconi there was a second
reading of a proposed ordinance to approve the map amendment changing an
approximate seventy-seven acre area along the east side of Fowler Creek Road
from R-1A and R-1C to R-1D for the development of a subdivision named Sycamore
Creek by Grand Communities, Ltd. (Fischer Homes). There was a brief discussion.
Mr. Ellison questioned the change from R-1A and R-1C. He thought this was an
error. Ms. Elizabeth Horowitz, who was attending the meeting to represent the
interests of Grand Communities, assured Mr. Ellison that the current zone of
the seventy-seven acres was both R-1A and R-1C. Roll call was answered with
five yes votes. Motion carried 5-0 in favor of the map amendment.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-10 – Setting the Trash Assessment Rate for 2001
5.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Dupps for a second reading of
the proposed ordinance to adopt the trash assessment rate for 2001 at $91.16
per residential unit and mobile home. Mr. Moriconi asked what the assessed rate
was for last year. The City Clerk advised that last year’s rate was $89.40 per
unit; an increase of $1.76. Mr. Smith read Ordinance No. 2001-O-10. Roll call
was answered with five yes votes. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-11 – Amending Ordinance No. 1994-O-18A Regarding the
Fowler Creek Sewer Debt Reduction Assessment
6.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi for a second reading
of Ordinance No. 2001-O-11 amending Ordinance No. 1994-O-18A relating to the
collection of the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt Reduction Assessment. During a brief
discussion, Mr. Ellison expressed concern to collecting this assessment on an
annual basis and felt this may be a hardship for some residents to pay the $280
assessment in a lump sum at the end of the year. Mayor Kriege responded that
this change in billing was carefully considered after looking at the lack of
available resources, in limited staff and funds that the city would incur to
continue to bill this on a quarterly basis as the Sanitation District had done
for the city in past years. He stated the city does not currently bill any
charges on a quarterly basis and this would present a burden to the current
staff and add expenses that are not budgeted. He stated that this assessment
could be added to the property owner’s escrow account, which probably fifty
percent or more homeowners maintain. He assured council that amending this
ordinance to adopt an annual billing is not meant to assail the users of this
system. The City Clerk advised that residents who needed special payment
arrangements would be accommodated. Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance. Roll
call was answered with four yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Ellison.
Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-12 – Amending the 2001//02 Budget
7.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Bushong for a second reading
of the proposed ordinance to amend the 2001/02 Budget. A brief discussion
ensued. Mr. Bushong questioned the increase of $100,000 for the Senior Center
Fund. Mr. Wendling explained the additional funds would cover four items;
$59,000 for change orders in the construction of the Senior building, $15,000
for landscaping that was not included in the budget or bid, transfer of the
remaining construction costs that were anticipated to come out of last year’s
budget, and an extra $26,000 for further change orders or unexpected expenses.
Mr. Bushong asked when the construction of the building would be complete. Mr.
Wendling advised that the building is expected to be finished at the end of
September and that the Senior Board of Directors is planning a Grand Opening
for late October or early November. Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance. Roll
call was answered with five yes votes. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Setting the Real Estate & Personal Property Tax Rates for
2001 – 1st Reading
8.   Mayor Kriege presented a proposed ordinance that would set the tax rates
for 2001 for real estate and personal property. Mr. Ellison questioned the
legality of having a first reading of the proposed ordinance prior to the
publication of a legal notice in the paper regarding the proposed rates. The
City Clerk advised that the legal notice has been sent to the Kentucky Post and
that it will run for two consecutive weeks prior to the public hearing on the
rate as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes. She stated that the
publication, according to K.R.S., must be prior to adoption of the rate, which
would be on the second reading of the ordinance. Finance Director, Amy
Guenther, read the section of the K.R.S. that pertains to this requirement.
City Attorney, Mr. Smith concurred that the public hearing is required before
the adoption or passage of the ordinance. Mr. Ellison stated that he felt the
public hearing of the rate should occur prior to the first reading of the
ordinance. The City Clerk informed council that historically the public hearing
for the proposed tax rates has been held prior to the second reading of the
ordinance.
9.   Mrs. Guenther presented council with an analysis of the computation of the
proposed tax rates for 2001. She advised the proposed rate for real estate
property is .147 for $100 of assessed value and that the proposed rate for
personal property is .205 for $100 of assesses value. She stated that both
rates are compensating plus four percent. Mrs. Guenther informed council that
last year’s real estate rate was .155 of $100 assessed value and the personal
property rate was .181 of $100 assessed value. Mr. Moriconi commented that the
real estate rate has decreased. Mrs. Guenther stated that the Northern Kentucky
Area Development District figured the rates and she confirmed the calculations.
Mayor Kriege advised the increase in the property values have caused the tax
rate to decrease.
10.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to have a first reading on the proposed tax
rates ordinance; seconded by Mr. Moriconi. No roll call; all ayes. Mr. Smith
read the proposed ordinance. There was a brief discussion regarding the
deadline of November 1 to receive the two percent discount. The City Clerk
advised that due to unforeseen circumstances, the printer would not be able to
ship the tax form mailers that have been ordered until September 28. This will
delay the printing and mailing of the bills to the property owners. Council
discussed this and opted to extend the two percent discount period until
November 16, 2001.
11.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Bushong for the first
reading of the proposed ordinance to set the property tax rates amended Section
III to provide a two percent discount if paid by November 16, 2001. Motion
carried all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Creating Position of Assistant Police Chief – 1st Reading
12.   There was a motion by Mr. Moriconi and second by Mr. Dupps for a first
reading of the proposed ordinance to create the position of Assistant Police
Chief. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Ellison asked if the police budget had
funds to cover this position. Chief Butler stated that funds would be adjusted
within the budget and that additional funds would not be requested to create
this position. Mr. Moriconi stated that he felt the creation of this position
would provide the city with a good backup plan. Mr. Ellison concurred that this
would ensure that someone would always be at the helm when the Chief was not
available. Mr. Dupps agreed this position was needed because currently two
lieutenants are in charge when the Chief is away. Motion carried with all ayes
and Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Pay Plan & Classification – 1st Reading
13.   There was a motion by Mr. Kudera and a second by Mr. Bushong for a first
reading of a proposed ordinance to adopt an employee pay plan and
classification. No discussion. Motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Smith read
the proposed ordinance.
Award of Bid for Concrete Street Repairs
14.   Mayor Kriege presented council with the bid tabulation for the concrete
street reconstruction project for three streets: Adahi Drive, Rickey Lane and
Roselawn Drive. He stated that two bids were received, one from JPS
Construction and one from Michels, with JPS’s bid being the lowest.
15.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into a
contract with JPS Construction, as the best and lowest bidder, for a total of
$361,534.60 for the concrete street repairs on Adahi Drive, Rickey Lane and
Roselawn Drive. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with five
yes votes. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Executive Session
16.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Moriconi council entered
into an executive session for the propose of discussing pending litigation and
the contract with the building inspector in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c)
and K.R.S. 61.810 (g) respectively. Motion carried with all ayes.
17.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Moriconi council resumed the
regular meeting. Motion carried with all ayes.
Contract with Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian
18.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to negotiate a new
contract with current Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian and to terminate the
current contract. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Adjournment
19.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Moriconi the meeting was
adjourned at 7:56 p.m.
_________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 10, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Father Paul Berschied gave the invocation. Council Members Eric
Dupps, Jim Ellison, Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council
Members Jim Bushong and Ike Gabbard were absent. Also in attendance was City
Attorney, Jeffrey S. Smith sitting in for H. Lawson Walker and City
Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Presentation of Proclamations
2.   Mayor Kriege presented a proclamation to Nicholas Hiatt, a resident of
Independence and member of the Boy Scouts of America, Troop #8 of the
Independence Christian Church in recognition of his advancement to the coveted
Eagle Rank.
Swearing In and Introduction of two New Patrol Officers of the Police
Department
3.   Mayor Kriege introduced Patrol Officer Scott Schultz who began active duty
with the Police Department about three weeks ago. He advised council that
Officer Schultz has six years experience as a police officer and most recently
was employed by the City of Elsmere. In addition, Michael Richman was
administered the Oath of Office as a patrol officer for Independence. Mayor
Kriege stated that Officer Richman is also an experienced police officer having
recently worked for the City of Dayton.
Approval of the Minutes of the August 6, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
4.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the minutes of the regular council
meeting of August 6, 2001, as submitted. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the August 21, 2001 Special Council Meeting
5.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to accept the minutes of the special council
meeting of August 21, 2001 as submitted. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Presentation of the Facilities Feasibility Study by Matrix Architects
6.   Mayor Kriege stated the city contracted with Matrix in March 2001 to
develop a plan for viable options to address the city’s need for building
accommodations for the police and administration departments. Mayor Kriege
introduced Jim Faulkner, President and Susan Keeny, Project Architect from
Matrix Architects who would present council with the results of the completed
feasibility study.
7.   Ms. Keeny informed council that Matrix was charged with creating both a
schematic site plan and building plan. She stated they inspected and evaluated
five possible sites for placement of a municipal building that would house all
administration and police offices. Ms. Keeny advised they are submitting two
distinct building plans to conform to the sites presented. Ms. Keeny reported
that the entire process involved cooperation from the city staff, whom assisted
with programming and presenting possible sites, and commended them for their
sense of thoroughness and vision. She stated the city staff was also fiscally
responsible, as the initial size of the building was 36,000 square feet and was
reduced by 10,000 square feet to make it more affordable.
8.   Ms. Keeny stated the following five sites were considered:
§   Sterling Staggs Park at the site of ball field #1
§   Memorial Park at the Route 17/Madison Pike area (Memorial Park #1)
§   Memorial Park at the site of the playground and shelter building (Memorial
Park #2)
§   Madison Pike near Pelly Road and Patriot Way
§   Madison Pike at the current site of the Administration Building (5247
Madison Pike)
She stated that the site of the current Administration Building was eliminated
early on as it was determined that there is not adequate property at that site.
She stated that this site would require the purchase of additional land. Ms.
Keeny stated that it was also determined that access from the curve on Madison
Pike at that location would be difficult to maneuver. There would be an
additional problem of relocating the offices temporarily, which would be an
added cost to the project, and the temporarily offices would have to meet code.
She stated that further analysis is provided in the report.
9.   Ms. Keeny reported that the Memorial Park/Route 17 site would have
immediate access off of Madison Pike but that due to the natural lay of the
land it would require extensive site work to make it buildable. She stated that
the terrain, which is a deep hole, would be a great disadvantage and that even
with extensive site work the roof of the building would not be much higher than
street level. This site will only accommodate the split-level floor plan.
10.   Ms. Keeny reported that the Pelly Road/Patriot Way site would require
funds to purchase the land and was a little compact. She cited that the
advantage to this site is that it would allow generous parking space but that
it was located in a residential area. She stated this site would accommodate
the split-level building plan and that it was near the Route 17 new lateral
connector road.
11.   Ms. Keeny stated that the Sterling Staggs Park site is currently
dedicated as a ball field and the disadvantage of this site would be the
elimination of this field and the need to reconfigure the playground area. She
stated that the advantages to this site is that the building would face the
incoming traffic into town, which would make for a nice presence, and a
separate entry for the building could be off of Sylvan Drive.
12.   Ms. Keeny stated that their recommended site for a municipal building
would be the Memorial Park Site No. 2, near the new Senior Center building. She
stated this site could accommodate a split-level building design and provide
additional parking for the entire area. She stated that public parking is
presently established in this area so an extension of the current parking lot
could be developed. She stated that this area already has other public
developments. Ms. Keeny stated that the disadvantage to this site would be that
a building would encroach on the existing playground and shelter areas. She
stated that Matrix Architects is proposing the city design a master plan for
Memorial Park that would address the facility needs for the entire park.
13.   In closing her presentation, Ms. Keeny advised council that the cost
estimates to construct a building was developed for each site ranging from
$3,500,000 to $4,000,000. She stated that the most expensive site was Memorial
Park at Route 17 (site #1) and the least expensive site was Staggs Park. She
stated that all analysis is provided in the feasibility report.
14.   Mr. Faulkner stated that they have recommended the Memorial Park site #2
because the split-level floor plan works best for this area and because this is
an ideal site. He stated that the park could become the central focus of a
municipal center, as this will provide the opportunity to develop more features
for the park. Mr. Faulkner stated that the play equipment and shelter at
Memorial Park could be taken apart in sections and relocated to other areas in
the park. He stated that the site of the current city building is the most
dangerous site as it sets on a perilous stretch of Route 17
15.   Mr. Dupps expressed concern with the number of stairwells and restrooms
in the building plans. Ms. Keeny stated that building code dictates the number
of stairwells and restrooms required in a building and that only the number
required by code was designed in the building plans; no more, no less. Mr.
Faulkner added that the square footage and the number of occupants determine
the actual number of fixtures. He stated that the central stairway is a feature
that allows easy access when elevators are in use or nonfunctional due to
maintenance, etc. Ms. Keeny advised that the lobby area size was reduced from
the original plan, but was able to keep it large enough to provide adequate
gathering space for visitors. Mr. Faulkner stated that the lobby should be a
collector’s area before and after council meetings. He stated that overall the
rooms and corridors were reduced by thirty percent from the original plan.
16.   Mr. Charles Deters, who was in the audience, asked if the building has
been designed with future growth in mind. Ms. Keeny stated that a certain
amount of growth has been programmed into the current design as storage areas
can be converted to offices later if needed. Mr. Faulkner stated that most
sites would have to be reviewed to adjust the position of the building to
accommodate future add-ons, but advised that it would be a span of 10-15 years
before an addition would be needed.
17.   Mr. Ellison commented that he felt it was a nice proposal but that he
would need more time to review the study and determine what the city could
afford.
18.   A member of the audience announced that the residents in the area of
Memorial Park do not want this building to be constructed in the park. She
stated that the park is a nice area and suggested the city locate a building
somewhere else in the city. Ms. Keeny responded that provisions could be made
for the relocation of the football field with the possibility of regrading to
improve the field.
19.   Mr. Faulkner advised that a master plan for the park would make Memorial
Park more livable and useable for all residents. He stated that while most
parks in general are devoted to one use that multiuse parks are more
successful. He stated that with the firehouse, Senior Center and a planned
amphitheatre the area will take on a campus type atmosphere. He advised the
current drainage problem near the football field would be corrected with the
regrading of the field. He stated there is no attempt to displace or exclude
this sport but rather to enhance the park overall. He stated that only a small
section of the twenty-six acre park is being utilized and that currently there
are no other access points to the rest of the acreage. He stated that a master
plan for the park could design those linkages with facilities that could be
used by children and adults of all ages. He stated this park area has a lot of
terrain and natural ideas to focus on, which warrants looking at the entire
park.
20.   Mayor Kriege assured the audience and council that the proposed master
plan study for Memorial Park would include a public forum for citizen input.
21.   Father Paul Berschied of St. Cecilia Church stated that he supported the
idea of consolidating city services under one campus area. He stated that the
other acres of the park need to be developed and also supported a master plan
study. He commented that the present configuration of the park doesn’t allow
access to adjoining streets. He stated that he also liked the idea of the
police station being located where our children play.
22.   Mr. Deters reminded council that a condition of his deeding this land to
the city was that a city building would be constructed there as well as the
development of a city park. He stated that this was part of the whole concept
for the Towne Center as ten percent of the land was donated to the Fire
District and City for a fire station, city building and park. He stated that
the current entrance to the park is inadequate and feels that the total picture
for this plot of land has not been evaluated.
23.   Mr. Moriconi asked what properties border the park. Mr. Deters replied
that part of the park adjoins Russ England’s property. He stated the park area
has a long tail with 1000 feet or so that is wooded which would be well suited
for trails and shelters. He stated there is plenty of room in this park for the
children and expressed concern that only the edge of the park has been
developed.
24.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Faulkner what the next step would be. Mr. Faulkner
stated that he felt it was critical to develop a master plan for the park,
especially considering that plans are underway for the construction of an
amphitheatre. He stated that he felt it was important to develop a road map for
the park to analyze linkages to access the park. He assured council they would
conduct a public forum as he felt it was the best way to incorporate ideas from
the residents. He stated that the end result of the master plan study would be
an adequate site plan for the park with a phasing in schedule.
25.   Mayor Kriege commented that he feels the city needs to provide adequate
office space for the city employees, in particular the police department who is
currently renting space in the county courthouse. He stated that while the
parks are needs, the departments that provide services to the citizens are in
need of office space and he feels this is just as important and vital need.
Mayor Kriege stated that he thinks the design of a master plan for Memorial
park makes good sense. Mr. Kudera asked for the status of the amphitheater.
Mayor Kriege advised that Mr. Deters has obtained a new set of drawings for the
amphitheater and that it is too late this year to proceed so the plan is to
obtain construction bids in the spring. He stated the city has until June/July
of 2002 to complete the project. Mr. Kudera agreed that Memorial Park would
benefit from a master plan. He asked how long it would take to design the
master plan. Mr. Faulkner stated it would take about six weeks to design a mid-
level plan. Mayor Kriege advised he just received the park master plan proposal
and would provide council with copies for the special meeting on Thursday.
26.   Mr. Moriconi stated that the city needs to move forward with office
space, especially for the police department. He stated that he would not vote
to disfigure the park or destroy the play area for the children. He stated that
he feels the park could be taken to the next level that would include
restrooms, more shelters and water fountains. He would like to see the park
improved upon.
27.   Mayor Kriege stated he does not want to see the city go to the expense of
purchasing land, as it will add considerable cost to the project. He went on to
assure the citizens in attendance that opposed the building site in the park
that the city would hold a public forum to give them the opportunity to voice
their ideas.
28.   Mr. Ellison commented that the Memorial Park site number two only shows a
small part of the park. He stated that with the construction of an amphitheater
there would be a need for more parking, which will result in more water runoff.
He stated that a possible entrance for the park could be on the backside of the
park – Peach Drive. Mr. Faulkner stated that a buffer needs to be installed
between the property owners in the Forest Run Subdivision and the play area of
the park. He stated that this is a community park, not a neighborhood park, and
is the largest park the city owns.
29.   Mr. Faulkner announced that the plans are just preliminary schematics and
encouraged the residents to attend the public forum to be held at a later date.
Mayor Kriege stated the Memorial Park master plan proposal would be added to
the agenda for the special meeting on Thursday, September 13, 2001 in an effort
to move forward.
Recess
30.   Upon motion by Mr. Moriconi and second by Mr. Kudera a brief recess was
taken. Motion carried with all ayes.
31.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Kudera the meeting resumed.
Motion carried with all ayes.
Privileges of the Floor
32.   Mitchell Wade, 640 Willow Drive addressed council regarding a letter he
received from the city regarding the ongoing problem he has had with drainage
in the rear of his yard which he alleges was the result of the installation of
the Fowler Creek sewer lines. Mr. Wade referred to the before and after videos
that were taken of his property which he stated was the basis of the city’s
position that the property was returned to it’s original condition after the
construction.
33.   Mr. Art Ziegler, 636 Willow Drive, reminded council that at the last city
council meeting he and Mr. Wade were promised that there would be a television
and vcr available at this meeting so that the before and after videos could be
viewed. He stated that he feels these videos prove that the properties were not
restored to the original condition. He stated the area is swampy and requires a
weedeater and knee hi boots to cut the overgrowth. He stated that he did not
receive a letter from the city and had to learn of the city’s decision from Mr.
Wade even though he has been communicating with Mr. Wendling. He requested the
city reconsider their decision and take the time to sit down and review these
videos as promised.
34.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Whitacre to respond to Mr. Wade and Mr. Ziegler.
Mr. Whitacre stated that he has reviewed this matter in several ways. He has
spoken with the company that installed this section of the sewer project, has
inspected the property, and reviewed all written records and correspondence and
has come to the conclusion that there was no indication that additional work
was necessary at these properties. He stated that the assumption is that the
matter was resolved. He stated that the pre-construction video was taken in a
year that was not a wet season, but the video shows a ditch, which indicates
there was an existing erosion problem or drainage problem. He stated that the
city improved upon the original condition as the ditch was not restored. Mr.
Whitacre stated that since no further requests for restoration was made at that
time (1996-1997) then the restoration was adequate. He stated that Jeff Cox of
Lucas Sanitation conveys that street drainage problems were documented, as the
street has no storm sewers or catch basins. But this is on the street side and
not the rear of the property.
35.   Mr. Whitacre went on to explain the possibility of encountering a natural
spring. He advised the water would follow the pipe bedding until it goes
downhill and a water line will follow the grade of the land and then surface
anywhere. Mr. Whitacre advised council that in order to make a good decision
they should view the videotapes. Mayor Kriege stated that it sounds like there
is not much good information to go on. Mr. Whitacre stated that nothing has
been done over the last several years as the previous administrations felt that
no further restoration was needed.
36.   Mr. Kudera and Mr. Ellison agreed that in an effort to move forward and
settle this matter that council should view the videos. Mayor Kriege stated
this matter would be added to the agenda and the videos would be viewed at the
special meeting on Thursday, September 13, 2001.
37.   Tammy Dorgan, 3917 Gunstock Court, returned to council to resume her
appeal to the city to assist the residents of the Hunters Green Subdivision
with the detention pond behind her property that has become an eyesore and a
safety concern for the neighborhood.
38.   Mr. Whitacre presented council with a written report and detailed cost
estimate in the amount of $14,033 to install an overflow structure that would
control the level of water in the pond. He stated that it appears that the
existing outlet had too small of a pipe which would result in the pond
overflowing the dam frequently. He advised that this continual overflow has
eroded the dam and resulted in the current condition. Mr. Whitacre stated that
the pond would continue to decrease each year as the dam overflows and the pond
will fill in from sediment and vegetation. He advised council that the proposed
overflow structure is a less expensive and a more realistic approach to solving
this problem. He stated additional costs for this project would be about $2,500
for engineering and surveying and $2,000 to bid this project out and provide
construction inspection.
39.   Mr. Dupps commented the project would then be approaching $20,000. Mr.
Wendling advised council the city could not go onto the detention pond
property, owned by the defunct Hunters Green Homeowners’ Association, without
incurring legal fees, etc.
40.   Mr. Kudera commented that he understood the council decided at last
month’s meeting to decline involvement with this situation. Mayor Kriege stated
that Mr. Whitacre was asked to provide cost estimates for the residents.
41.   Mike Whitacre, Tammy Dorgan’s father, commented that he understands the
legal ramifications the city is faced with, but thought when the city annexed
the subdivision that it assumed all responsibility for the area and not just
added the tax base assets. He suggested that the next time a developer wants to
deed green space to the city that the city should decline the offer.
42.   Mr. Bob Dodson, 3921 Trappers Court, commented that when the Apple Valley
Apartments were constructed the additional runoff from the development
deteriorated the pond. Mr. Ellison stated that the apartment complex has a
retention pond but is unsure if it is operational or even maintained.
43.   Mr. Kudera commented that the city does not have the funds to correct
this pond. Mr. Ellison stated that the city has offered assistance by way of
attorney and engineering advise on what needs to be done to correct the
situation. Mr. Kudera advised the property owners near this pond should work
together to remedy the situation so that their properties do not decrease in
value. He stated it would be worth the investment to maintain their properties.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-13 – Creating the Position of Assistant Chief of Police –
2nd Reading
44.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to create the position of Assistant Chief of Police. Mr. Moriconi
seconded the motion. Mr. Smith read Ordinance No. 2001-O-13. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-14 – Adopting a Pay Plan and Classification – 2nd Reading
45.   There was a motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Dupps for a second
reading of Ordinance No. 2001-O-14 adopting an employee pay plan and
classification. Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Resolution No. 2001-R-10 – Approving Payment of Monthly Expenses for the Senior
Center
46.   There was a motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Ellison to read
Resolution No. 2001-R-10 approving the monthly payment to Mark Spaulding
Construction in the amount of $133,493.40 for the construction of the Senior
Center. Mr. Smith read the resolution. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Resolution No. 2001-R-11 – Amending Personnel Policy to include the Position of
Asst. Police Chief
47.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to read Resolution No. 2001-R-11 amending the
personnel policy and procedures manual to include the position of Assistant
Police Chief in accordance with Ordinance No. 2001-O-13. Mr. Dupps seconded the
motion. Mr. Smith read Resolution No. 2001-R-11. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried with all ayes.
Municipal Order No. 2001-MO-03 – Relating to Council Committees
48.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to read Municipal Order No. 2001-MO-03 adopting
council committees that reflects a name change of the Building Committee to the
Building & Recreation Committee. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Mr. Smith
read the Municipal Order. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 4-
0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Dedicating parcel of Property Adjacent to Scherry Ave. as
Right of Way – 1st Reading
49.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Dupps there was a first
reading on a proposed ordinance that would formally dedicate a 50 foot by 75
foot parcel of property located adjacent to the physical terminus of Scherry
Avenue as an unmaintained and unimproved public right of way. Motion carried
with all ayes. Mr. Smith read the proposed ordinance.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
50.   Senior Center Update – Mr. Wendling reported the project is scheduled to
be complete by the end of September and that the grading should occur this
week. He reported the Senior Board of Directors has raised approximately
$50,000, which is half way to their goal of $100,000, which they hope to
achieve by the end of the month. The Board is currently focusing on programming
and staffing needs. Mr. Wendling stated that the Kenton County Fiscal Court has
appointed Elizabeth Patterson and Brandon Voelker as the county representatives
on the Board.
51.   Street Repairs Update – Mr. Wendling reported the Holton Drive and
Beechgrove repairs are scheduled to begin next week as well as concrete
replacement for Rickey Lane and Adahi.
52.   Industrial Road Improvements – Mr. Wendling reported that he attended a
meeting regarding proposed improvements to Industrial Road. The meeting had
representatives from the Department of Transportation, Tri-Ed, the Northern
Kentucky Industrial Park and various companies. He stated that the Northern
Kentucky Industrial Park presented their findings of a corridor study and is
recommending that improvements be included in the state’s six-year plan.
Suggested improvements would include widening the entire road to three lanes. A
letter from the city has been sent indicating support for the project.
53.   Cody Road Fire Hydrants – Mr. Wendling reported that he has learned that
the developer (Berling Construction) of Trooper’s Crossing voluntarily agreed
to install the water main outside his development limits but was under no
obligation to install the six fire hydrants. He stated that the cost to install
the hydrants would be approximately $6,000 for materials and that the Water
District would provide the labor and equipment necessary once a payment is
received for the materials. He also reported that the Water District is
contributing up to $20,000 towards the total water line extension along Cody
Road and Independence Station Road through refunds per it’s filed PSC tariff.
Mr. Ellison suggested the city send letters to the nearby residents to inquire
if they have interest in assisting in the cost to install the hydrants.
54.   Police Department Golf Outing – Chief Butler reported the golf outing
fundraiser was successful in raising approximately $2,500 and he credited Sgt.
Tony Lucas with making this event a success.
55.   Police Department – Chief Butler reported that Lt. Dave Nichols has been
accepted into the FBI Academy. He stated that Lt. Nichols is one of twelve in
the state to receive this recognition. He stated that this ten-week program is
specially designed for police officers.
56.   Lakefield Park – Mr. Wendling reported that the park in Lakefield
Subdivision is currently under construction by Drees with the installation of
play equipment and sidewalks. At this time he is unsure when the Drees Company
will be deeding the land over to the city.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
57.   Mr. Kudera stated there was no August meeting and that the next regularly
scheduled meeting is set for September 17, 2001.
Building Committee
58.   Mr. Moriconi reported the committee met with Matrix to review the
Feasibility Study prior to it’s presentation at tonight’s meeting.
Personnel & Administration Committee
59.   Mayor Kriege reported the committee’s next meeting is scheduled for
October 9, 2001.
Planning & Zoning Committee
60.   Mr. Ellison reported there was no August meeting and that the next
regularly scheduled meeting will be on September 27, 2001. Mayor Kriege
suggested the committee provide the necessary input on the Comprehensive Plan
currently being revised by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning & Zoning
Commission.
Public Safety Committee
61.   Mr. Dupps reported the police department participated in National Night
Out and are making plans for next year. He also reported the Bike Safety
program is in need of a covered trailer to take to the program sites. Mr. Dupps
also reported they hope to receive notice soon regarding the grants that have
been applied for Resource Officers in the schools. He stated the next meeting
is September 18, 2001.
Public Works Committee
62.   Mr. Wendling reported that the committee is discussing the method being
used by developers when installing streets in the new subdivisions.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
63.   Mayor Kriege announced that a public hearing on the proposed property tax
rates would be held at 6:30 p.m., Thursday, September 13, 2001 prior to the
Special Meeting at 6:45 p.m. There being no further business Mayor Kriege
stated the council would retire to executive session.
Executive Session
64.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to enter executive session in accordance with
K.R.S. 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing pending litigation. Mr. Kudera
seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
65.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi the regular session
of the meeting resumed. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
66.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Motion
carried unanimously. The meeting adjourned at 10:08 p.m.
_______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
City of Independence
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 13, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the special meeting to order at 6:50 p.m. at the
Kenton County Courthouse in Independence, Ky. Father Paul Berschied of St.
Cecilia Catholic Church gave the invocation Council Members Eric Dupps, Jim
Ellison, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Members Jim
Bushong and Ike Gabbard were absent. Mayor Kriege declared that a quorum was
present. Also in attendance was City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling and City
Attorney, Jeffrey S. Smith sitting in for H. Lawson Walker.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was to
discuss and take action on the following agenda items:
§   Discussion and possible action regarding a master plan for Memorial Park
including how it relates to the recent feasibility study for Police and
Administration facilities and a possible site selection for a facility.
§   Discussion and possible action regarding the proposed ordinance setting the
tax rates for 2001.
§   Discussion and possible action relating to Willow Drive properties.
Master Plan for Memorial Park/Feasibility Study for Police/Admin Facilities &
Site Selection
3.   Mayor Kriege advised that Matrix Architects presented a proposal to design
a master plan for Memorial Park at the September 10, 2001 regular council
meeting. Mr. Wendling stated that Matrix would do a brief overview of the park
as it currently exists and propose potential uses for the site with additional
emphasis on site preparation, future site elements and potential phasing
opportunities. He stated that the master plan project would include holding
public meetings to present and receive public input and preliminary
construction cost estimates. Additionally, he stated that the study would take
four to six weeks to complete.
4.   Mayor Kriege stated that a master plan would be a good tool to analyze
utilization of the park with a concept that could be phased in over time. In
addition, he commented that he believed the proposal of a master plan for
Memorial Park would legitimize the recent recommendation to locate a new
administration/police building on the site.
5.   Mayor Kriege recognized the number of citizens in the audience that were
in attendance to address council regarding the plans for Memorial Park. He
advised that he would first give the council members an opportunity to address
the master plan proposal and then give them the opportunity to speak.
6.   Mr. Moriconi commented that he is glad to get input from those in the
audience tonight. He stated that he is aware of the rumors circulating that the
football field would be eliminated from the park. He stated that he would like
to hear points of view from both sides and hopefully answer questions that
could arrest any unfounded rumors. Mr. Moriconi stated that he felt that the
entire acreage of the park should be utilized and that currently only a small
section of the land is being made use of by the residents.
7.   Mr. Kudera commented that it was important for the residents to understand
that council is obligated to serve the community at large. He stated that he
found the number of calls he received this week concerning petitions and flyers
circulating with untold truths to be very troubling. He expressed his
frustration with unforthcoming dissident citizens that won’t personally
confront this council but instead choose to circulate incorrect material. He
reiterated that his position is to serve the entire city, and that decisions
regarding Memorial Park must be for the good of the whole city.
8.   Mr. Ellison commented that he wants to support the city and with some
foresight felt that Memorial Park can be restructured to include Mr. Deters’
original intention for this parcel of land, which was to plot a section for a
new city building. He went on to say that there are twenty-six acres of land in
this park and it is cheaper for the taxpayers to build there than to purchase
land to build elsewhere. Mr. Ellison tried to reassure those in attendance that
no decision would be made tonight regarding a site for the city building but
that council would just decide on whether or not to proceed with a master plan
for the park. He stated that other sites are being reviewed, but explained that
the Staggs Park would have to be eliminated as that land was purchased with
federal dollars that would prohibit a building being located there. He stated
that the architect consultants have recommended the Memorial Park site number
two as the best location for a new city building, but that he is willing to
listen to residents’ comments before making a decision. In closing, Mr. Ellison
stressed that for the last ten years there has been a dire need for a new
building to house the city’s employees, especially the police department, and
that council’s responsibility is to look at the best interest of the city and
all its’ citizens.
9.   Mr. Dupps expressed concern that the city may be putting the cart before
the horse. He questioned conducting a master plan project before deciding on a
site for the city building. Mayor Kriege stated that he would like to see
council commit to a site selection tonight as he feels it is time to move
forward with plans for a city building. But Mr. Dupps stated he wanted to be
sure the city moved in the right direction.
10.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve and authorize Mayor Kriege to enter
into a contract with Matrix Architects to design a master plan for Memorial
Park as presented in the proposal for the amount of $10,200. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. Further discussion ensued. Mr. Kudera strongly expressed
his commitment to move forward with the creation of a new city center. He
initiated his support for this project as he felt the city needed to move
forward. Mr. Dupps stated that he would like to have more time to discuss this
matter and was concerned that the Building and Recreation Committee had not had
an opportunity to review the proposal. Mayor Kriege stated this was discussed
with the architect and that the committee will review the master plan before it
is presented at a regular council meeting. Mr. Dupps asked if Matrix has
designed other park plans. Mr. Wendling stated that they have done other park
designs and assured Mr. Dupps that he is satisfied that this firm is capable of
this project. Mr. Dupps commented that he feels there are some positive things
in their proposal, such as the phasing of the development. Mr. Wendling stated
that he feels a master plan is necessary for the park in order to make it the
best it can be as it is located in the heart of town and will probably be the
city’s largest park. Mr. Ellison stated that he agrees the park needs a master
plan and felt it should be tied in with the plans for a city building. Mr.
Kudera stated that he does not want to submerge the opposition to this project,
but merely wishes the opponents of this proposed project to come forward to
present their views directly to council. Mr. Dupps asked how the city would pay
for this expense. Mayor Kriege stated the cost for the master plan would be
taken from the Building Fund. Mr. Moriconi commented that he would like to see,
at minimum, water fountains and restrooms in this park and hoped that this
project would accomplish that.
11.   At this time, Mayor Kriege opened the floor for comments from the
audience regarding this matter.
PRIVILIDGES OF THE FLOOR
12.   Father Paul Berschied, St. Cecilia Church, 5313 Madison Pike, addressed
council in support of approving the master plan study for Memorial Park. He
stated twenty-six acres of existing land is not accessible and feels there is a
need for other entrances into the park. He stated that he feels that the
$10,200 will be well spent to design a plan that would explore more uses and
obtain more recreational facilities for the city. Father stated that he would
also like to see better sanitation facilities and better spacing of the
recreational equipment. He stated he would like to see the park more accessible
to a greater number of people and felt certain that it would benefit St.
Cecilia School for educational purposes. In closing, Father Berschied stated
that it would be prudent to correctly position the building site and is in
favor of the study to look at the best use of the proposed city building site,
regardless of whether or not the building is located there. He commented that
without a park plan that things would be developed in a mishmash manner.
13.   Perry Wing, 10734 Cypresswood, told council that he was interested in
obtaining some clarity and answers to the recent rumors circulating about the
proposed plans for Memorial Park. He also offered to volunteer to be part of
the planning process of the park. Mr. Wing expressed concern regarding the
increased traffic that would be generated from locating a city building near
the Delaware Crossing/Route 17 intersection. He stated that he felt this area
is currently inadequate to handle the traffic flow as well as other sections of
Route 17 especially during peak times such as morning and lunchtime. He stated
he would like to see a turn lane installed in the Independence Square for
safety and to prevent further injuries. Mr. Wing also felt that the additional
traffic would jeopardize the safety of the seniors visiting the Senior Center
nearby when it opens for business later this year.
14.   Mr. Wing also expressed displeasure with the architect’s placement of the
access road to the proposed city building as presented at Monday’s council
meeting. He stated that it appears that the road would be at his backyard and
doesn’t feel the site is appropriate. He stated that while he understands the
city needs a building he feels the council needs to stay focused on the safety
issue and should keep the businesses separate from the residential part of
town. Mr. Wing hoped that if the city does choose the architects’ recommended
site for the city building that the necessary setback would be maintained.
Mayor Kriege assured Mr. Wing the city would maintain an adequate setback but
could not commit to constructing a wall as a barrier. Mr. Wing also requested
the city provide non-glaring lights as a courtesy to the nearby properties.
15.   Rita King, 6523 Sugar Camp Drive, asked Mayor Kriege and council if a
merger of the Kenton County Police Department and the Independence Police
department has ever been considered. She stated that the police department
expends two-thirds of the city’s budget. Mayor Kriege stated that it was not
uncommon for the police and fire departments to consume a large portion of the
budget. In addition, he responded that Independence is the fastest growing city
in the area and he would not consider dissolving the city police department.
Ms. King stated she felt the city could use the funds for a city building if
the county and police services were merged. Chief Butler responded that the
citizens of Independence would not get the same level of service if the two
departments merged. He also commented that Kenton County is currently looking
for a new building, as their current building on Route 17 near Nicholson will
be taken by the re-routing of Route 17.
16.   Ms. King expressed concern as to why a park plan wasn’t prepared before
installing the shelter and play equipment and questioned the cost that will be
associated with relocating these structures. Mayor Kriege stated those issues
will be addressed in the master plan. Mr. Wendling advised that the architect
has stated that relocation of the current structures will be a nominal expense.
Ms. King asked why the city is not considering the Pelly Road/Madison Pike
location as the site for a new city building. Mr. Wendling stated that the
purchase of the land would add about $600,000 to the cost of the project. Ms.
King also suggests the city purchase land adjacent to the park. Mr. Wendling
advised the land did not have good access.
17.   Ms. King also voiced her concern for citizens’ safety when cruisers
enter/exit the proposed Memorial Park site for a city building when responding
to calls. Mr. Wendling stated that currently Memorial Park is a major safety
issue during the week during peewee football practice and that the entire
safety issue will be addressed with the design of a master plan for the park
area.
18.   Maura Snyder, 5129 Dana Harvey, addressed council in support of the need
for adequate office space for the police department. She stated that their
current rented space is substandard with no space for storage. She stated that
the residents should get acquainted with the police officers. She stated the
city building may be inconvenient for the residents nearby but she feels the
presence of the police officers would help deter drug loitering in the park.
Ms. Snyder stated that if the land was given to the city to construct a city
building and park then the city should not spend an additional $600,000 to
purchase more land and suggested the city move forward with plan.
19.   Cheryl Depolt, 10761 Autumnridge Drive, was concerned with the type of
city building to be constructed, and wondered if it would resemble one like the
City of Taylor Mill or the City of Florence. She also was concerned with the
safety issue and additional traffic at the intersection of Delaware Crossing
and Route 17. She stated that the noise factor should be considered, when
adding a police station near the fire station. Mayor Kriege stated this is the
kind of input needed for the master plan.
20.   Ms. Depolt stated that she moved here from Massachusetts where the taxes
were much higher, but in exchange the community in which she lived enjoyed
beautiful parks and schools and people were happy because they had a beautiful
city. She stated that one of the reasons she bought the property in the Forest
Run Subdivision was because the park was located there, and she urged council
to spend the money to do the site preparation needed to put the city building
on the Memorial Park site number one. She stated that this extra expense to the
city would be worth it to her and that she would be willing to pay more taxes.
Mayor Kriege responded that the majority of the residents do not feel like she
does and prefer the property tax rates to remain low. Mr. Wendling encouraged
Ms. Depolt to review the master plan for the park when it is completed before
rejecting the possibility. Ms. Depolt requested the council to go door to door
in the Forest Run Subdivision and talk to the residents so they can hear that
they want a park, not a parking lot.
21.   Michael McFallen, 10730 Cypresswood Drive, informed council that his main
concern with regard to locating the city building in Memorial Park is the
safety issue. He stated that the park is already busy, non-stop, and feared
that additional traffic created by a city building will increase the safety
concern. He stated that he felt the council’s decision has already been made
and is set on this site. He stated that he is impressed by the city’s police
department and understand that a building is needed but stressed that the area
needed to remain safe for children. Mr. McFallen inquired if a jail would be in
the police building. Chief Butler assured Mr. McFallen that the police
department is not in the business of storing prisoners and that no holding cell
would be constructed in the building. He stated the police department would
continue to transport prisoners to the county jail. In closing, Mr. McFallen
stated that he feels he will loose his privacy, and with the availability of so
much land in Independence, urged council to look at other options.
22.   Wilma Wright, 1819 Forest Run Drive, briefly stated that she agrees with
her neighbors in the subdivision and they do not want a city building in the
park.
23.   Richard Noah, 1843 Forest Run Drive, stated that he has great admiration
for the police department. He commented that he uses Memorial Park on a regular
basis and feels confident that all traffic and safety concerns will be
addressed in the master plan. He stated that he would be willing to pay
additional taxes for the city’s needs but that he would prefer a tax increase
be avoided. Mr. Noah commented that the current layout of the park is very
unsafe and feels that drivers won’t speed in front of a police station. He
stated that he understands that the adjoining property owners are looking out
for their own interests but feels the city will do a good job in constructing a
building in an attractive manner. In closing, he stated that he would like to
see council move forward with the master plan for the park.
24.   Donna Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, stated that her main concern was how the
city proposed paying for a new city building. Mayor Kriege stated that funds
for a building has been projected in the city’s five-year plan. Mrs. Miller
commented that she has been striving for years to see the police department get
acceptable facilities and she is sorry if it is in someone’s backyard, but it
is time for a new building. She reiterated that her main concern is how the
city will fund the building. Mayor Kriege stated that no final decisions have
been made regarding the funding.
END PRIVILEDGES OF THE FLOOR
25.   Mr. Kudera agreed that safety is a concern in the area and informed
everyone that the state highway department is addressing this matter at the
intersection of Route 17 and Delaware Crossing.
26.   Mr. Dupps commented that he would like to see the Building and Recreation
Committee review the master plan proposal before a presentation is made to
council.
27.   Mr. Ellison also agreed that safety is a major concern and has been for
the last ten years or so. He stated that when Governor Brereton Jones was in
office the city was promised that Route 17 would be reconstructed, which is
finally in progress. Mr. Moriconi commented that a traffic light is proposed
for the intersection of Walnut Hall/Route 17/Delaware Crossing. Chief Butler
stated that the city does not control speed and traffic lights on state
highways, but does lobby for these changes and is often denied, but he stated
that turn lanes in the area have been promised by the state. Chief Butler
stated the he will continue to request these road improvements.
28.   At this time roll call was taken on Mr. Kudera’s motion and Mr. Ellison’s
second to authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into a contract with Matrix
Architects to design a master plan for Memorial Park. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Setting the Property Tax Rates for 2001 – Second Reading
29.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to set the tax rates for real and personal property for 2001. Mr.
Dupps seconded the motion. City Attorney, Jeffrey S. Smith read the proposed
ordinance which would set the real estate tax rate at .147/$100 and .205/$100
for personal property. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 4-
0 in favor.
Recess
30.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps a brief recess was
taken. Motion carried with all ayes.
31.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Ellison the meeting resumed.
Motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion of Willow Drive Properties
32.    Mr. Art Ziegler and Mr. Mitchell Wade, 636 Willow Drive and 640 Willow
Drive respectively, returned to council to continue the discussion about the
drainage problem at the rear of their property that they contend was brought
about from the construction of the Fowler Creek Sewer lines installed years
ago. Mayor Kriege consented to a public viewing of the preconstruction video
tape recorded by Cardinal Engineer, in addition to viewing the residents’ video
tape as the drainage problem exists currently.
33.   After viewing the tapes, a lengthy discussion ensued. Mr. Ziegler asked
council for assistance with solving this drainage problem on their property.
Mr. Wade said this lack of drainage has caused his basement to leak, which he
stated was not a problem before the sewer lines were installed. He stated the
lay of the land was altered and he feels the video shows where the land was cut
down.
34.   Mayor Kriege asked City Engineer, Dave Whitacre to respond to the videos.
Mr. Whitacre stated that he feels that comparing the two videos is like
comparing apples to oranges. He stated that the preconstruction video was
recorded several feet up hill, in contrast to the residents’ video, which was
recorded up close. He stated that to really know how the area drains that there
needs to be a stretch of dry weather. Mr. Whitacre stated that this
construction was done over a two-month period in the fall of 1996 and that the
contractor installing the lines restored the property the best as he could for
that time of year. He stated it was difficult to get grass to grow at that time
of year. He stated he has attempted to speak with the construction company that
performed this job but that some of the people are no longer there. Mr.
Whitacre advised council that several city representatives have inspected this
property over the last few years and made the determination that the city had
no further liability. He admitted that this water has nowhere to drain but
doesn’t know that it is any different now than before the installation of the
lines. He read notations from the punch list that was documented for this
project, which did not reveal that a problem existed. He also advised that
during a site visit by GRS it was determined that additional work was not
required.
35.   Mr. Dupps asked what it would cost to solve this drainage problem. Mr.
Whitacre stated that 4”– 6” perforated pipe would run $1.00/foot but he advised
the biggest problem will be getting the heavy equipment to the area without
destroying the property.
36.   Mr. Whitacre posed the question of whether or not the city was still
liable for this drainage problem since the sewer lines were turned over to the
Sanitation District a few years ago. Mr. Ellison thinks that the District owns
along the easement and that the right of ways belongs to the city. Mr. Kudera
stated that he believes the city is not liable for any of the construction area
per the Agreement with the Sanitation District. Mr. Ellison stated he believes
that a hydrologist is on staff at the Sanitation District and the city should
request that the hydrologist inspect this property. City Attorney, Jeffrey S.
Smith advised that his office should review the Agreement with the Sanitation
District to understand what the agreement entails. Mr. Moriconi agreed that the
Sanitation District should be called in to inspect this property. Mr. Wade
stated he has spoken with the District and they have promised to send someone
out. He stated that something has to be done to correct this condition, as he
cannot tolerate it much longer and that he had hoped he would be able to reach
an agreement with the city. Mr. Kudera stated that he felt the videos did not
give a raw view of where the problem is and he didn’t see evidence when he made
a site visit. Mayor Kriege commented that there are so many unknowns that are
hindering a solution.
37.   Mr. Dupps suggested the city work with the Sanitation District for Mr.
Wade. Mayor Kriege stated that Mr. Wendling could facilitate this process but
wanted Mr. Wade and Mr. Ziegler to understand that the city was not promising
to solve this problem but will agree to provide assistance with the Sanitation
District. Mr. Moriconi concurred and stated that he felt it would be worth the
efforts to coordinate this matter and see what assistance the Sanitation
District can provide. Mr. Ellison stated he would like the Sanitation District
to provide the city with a copy of the report after the inspection is complete.
Mayor Kriege advised that in the meantime, legal counsel for the city would
review the Agreement with the Sanitation District when they took over
maintenance of the sewer lines.
38.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to request the city staff to facilitate with
the Sanitation District an inspection and review of the properties on Willow
Drive that are enduring this drainage problem. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion.
No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
39.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps the meeting was
adjourned at 9:05 p.m. Motion carried with all ayes.
_______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
OCTOBER 1, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Father Paul Berschied gave the invocation. Council Members Eric
Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi answered roll
call. Council Member Jim Bushong was absent. Also in attendance was City
Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Presentation from Toyota North American Parts Center
2.   On behalf of Toyota North American Parts Center, Council Member, Eric
Dupps presented to Lt. Ed Bailey of the Police Department a donation check in
the amount of $500.00 in support of the DARE Project and Bike Helmet Safety
Program.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 10, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the minutes of the council meeting of
September 10, 2001 as amended. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with four yes votes, with Mr. Gabbard abstaining. Motion carried 4-
0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 13, 2001 Special Council Meeting
4.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Dupps for approval of the
minutes of the special council meeting of September 13, 2001 as submitted. Roll
call was answered with four yes votes, with Mr. Gabbard abstaining. Motion
carried 4-0 in favor.
Privileges of the Floor
5.   Rita King, 6523 Sugar Camp Road, addressed council regarding the plans for
a proposed municipal building. She asked if council had considered Independence
Park in the Hartland Subdivision as a possible site for the building. Mr.
Wendling replied that that site has been platted as a neighborhood park. Ms.
King asked if the master plan for Memorial Park was going to include a
municipal building. Mayor Kriege responded that nothing had been determined at
this time. Ms. King stated that as a member of the Independence Recreation
Committee that she was misled as to the development of the park. She requested
that the public forum meetings be posted on the marquis sign in front of the
city building.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-09- Map Amendment for 77 Acres at Senior Rd. & Fowler
Creek Rd.
6.   Mayor Kriege explained there was a second reading and adoption of this
ordinance at the special council meeting of August 21, 2001. He stated that the
Kentucky Post/Enquirer failed to publish the ordinance within thirty days as
required which is the reason this ordinance is being presented for a new second
reading.
7.   Mr. Ellison made a motion for a second reading of Ordinance No. 2001-O-09
and Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Mr. Gabbard suggested adding the sidewalk
requirement to this ordinance. Mr. Walker explained that if any changes are
made to this ordinance now that it will regress to a first reading causing
another delay in the adoption process of this ordinance. He advised that if the
city made changes at this late date that the developer of this planned
subdivision would argue and go with the original recommendations by the
Planning Commission. He reminded council that this map amendment was approved
with more conditions than was recommended by the Planning Commission and
advised against abandoning this ordinance. Upon Mr. Walker’s advise, Mr.
Gabbard agreed that the ordinance should not be amended. Mr. Wendling commented
that the Planning Commission upheld the sidewalk condition for the development.
8.   Mr. Walker read Ordinance No. 2001-O-09 by title only. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-15 –2nd Reading – Dedicating a Parcel Adjacent to Scherry
Ave. as a Right of Way
9.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a second reading of a proposed ordinance
to dedicate a parcel of land adjacent to Scherry Avenue as a right of way. Mr.
Kudera seconded the motion. Mr. Walker read Ordinance No. 2001-O-15. There
being no discussion, roll call was taken and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0 in favor.
Discussion regarding the Maintenance of Justice Lane
10.   Ms. Sandy Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane, addressed council requesting
clarification of a public record. More specifically the Ordinance (1-11-87)
accepting Justice Lane as a city street for maintenance purposes. She stated
that Jeff Smith of the Public Works Department informed her the city did not
maintain Justice Lane. She stated that Justice Lane is not restricted to public
access. City attorney, Lawson Walker advised the city has no record of this as
a public street. He went on to say that a resident on Justice Lane claims the
road is on his property and the city doesn’t have a plat indicating where the
private property and city property lines are located. He said this is something
the city will need to determine, as the current ordinance that was adopted in
1987 does not affirm the boundary lines. He stated the city should not dedicate
a road without owning it, and it is unclear from reading the ordinance to
determine the location of the right of way. Ms. Woolum argued that this road
has been unrestricted for many years and cited a state statute that provides
two means for dedication of a road; one formally and the other provision of
dedication would be informal for a road that has been open to public use for
more than five years, then it is presumed to be a public right of way. Ms.
Woolum presented research documents to Mr. Walker for his review. Mayor Kriege
stated this matter could not be resolved at this meeting and advised Ms. Woolum
the city would have legal counsel review the matter and notify her in
letterform.
11.   Mr. Gabbard stated that he felt the city had some obligation to maintain
Justice Lane due to the adoption of an ordinance. Mr. Walker asked if the city
had provided some maintenance to this street in the past. Mr. Jeff Smith,
Public Works crew leader, stated that his crew has filled some potholes on two
occasions. Mr. Walker stated he would review the matter and advise council.
Resolution No. 2001-R-12 – Approving Payment of CDBG Monthly Expenses for the
Senior Center
12.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to read Resolution No. 2001-R-12 approving the
monthly payment to Mark Spaulding Construction in the amount of $176,637.60.
Mr. Gabbard seconded the motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Ellison asked
if the building was close to completion. Mr. Wendling stated no specific date
has been set but it may be about two more weeks. Mr. Ellison asked if a
completion date was included in the contract. Mayor Kriege stated there was,
but that the date is not imminent and is not a cost concern. Mr. Gabbard asked
how the Board was doing on their fund drive to cover the cost of furniture. Mr.
Wendling stated the Board has raised over $50,000.
13.   Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2001-R-12. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Resolution No. 2001-R-13 – Condemning September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attacks on
the USA
14.   Mayor Kriege presented to council a resolution condemning the terrible
terrorist attacks in Washington D.C. and New York City on September 11, 2001.
He said we should remember what our country has experienced these last several
weeks and show an expression of support.
15.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to read Resolution No. 2001-R-13, seconded by
Mr. Kudera. Mr. Moriconi suggested adding wordage that would support the
services of the men and women of the military. Mayor Kriege stated that could
be included by adding a Section IV. Mr. Walker read the Resolution in its
entirety. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Discussion of the September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attacks and Offering Financial
Support to New York City
16.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to contribute $5,000 to the New York City
Police and Firemen Survivor’s Fund and to host the Hoxworth mobile blood unit
and suggested the city officials head this project. Mr. Ellison stated that he
would second the motion as long as funds could be found in the budget. Mayor
Kriege asked Mr. Gabbard where in the budget he would pull the $5,000. Mr.
Gabbard suggested that funds be taken from the administration and police
training expenses. Mr. Kudera stated that while he supports community
involvement in the survivor’s fund he thinks the fire department and probably
the police department has incurred additional expenses due to extra security
measures being taken for our community and that additional costs may be
impending until the war is over. He stated that he feels that at this time the
city needs to focus on our local responsibilities as we may have future
unbudgeted expenditures before the end of the fiscal year. Mr. Gabbard
countered that thousands of lives have been lost in the September 11, 2001
terrorist attack, and he feels the city can and should make the extraordinary
effort to donate to this fund for the people who put their lives on the line.
Mr. Moriconi stated that he did not want to pull funds from the police training
as their budget is tight already, but he would be willing to donate to the
survivor’s fund if another funding source can be found. Mayor Kriege suggested
the staff could review their budget with a recommendation at the next council
meeting. Mr. Gabbard reiterated that he feels the city is obligated to
contribute to this fund. Mr. Dupps suggested the funds could come from the road
budget if the street repairs fall under budget. Mr. Wendling stated he would
review the budget tomorrow with the Finance Director to look for extra funds.
Mayor Kriege suggested tabling this matter until next month. Mr. Gabbard
amended his motion to table voting on the $5,000 contribution until next month
upon a report from staff on where funds can be pulled from in the budget, and
to proceed to move forward with contacting Hoxworth Blood Center to arrange to
have the mobile unit brought to the city. Mr. Ellison seconded the amendment.
Roll call was answered with four yes votes, with Mr. Kudera abstaining. Motion
carried in favor.
Miscellaneous
17.   Mr. Ellison advised that a No Parking sign needs to be installed on the
north side of Independence Station Road.
18.   Mr. Ellison stated that he has received a call from Owen Electric who
reports that house numbers are not being installed on the houses in the Battle
Ridge Subdivision. Mayor Kriege stated he thought the city had an ordinance
that requires house numbers be posted. Mr. Ellison stated he would like to see
the Zoning Administrator enforce this ordinance. Mr. Gabbard concurred and
stated the ordinance was adopted a few years ago.
19.   Mr. Ellison advised that Webster Road, off of Cody Road, has a temporary
road, which has made access to those houses nearly impossible for emergency
personnel/vehicles. He stated this is a serious safety concern. Mayor Kriege
advised that Mr. Wendling would look into this tomorrow.
Naming of the Park in the Lakefield Subdivision to Marion Schadler Park
20.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to name the new park in the Lakefield
Subdivision after the former mayor, Marion Schadler who has dedicated many
years of public service to the City of Independence. Mr. Gabbard seconded the
motion. Mr. Gabbard stated that Mr. Schadler served as mayor of Independence
for sixteen years and two years as a council member. Mr. Ellison commented that
Mr. Schadler deserves this recognition. Mr. Dupps stated that he recalls in the
past the Independence Recreation Committee would compile a list of park names
and make a recommendation to council for approval. He also recalled the
Recreation Committee recommended against dedicating parks to individuals and
that Memorial Park was aptly named to encompass memorials to individuals. Mr.
Dupps stated that he does not object to naming the park after Mr. Schadler, but
feels the Building and Recreation Committee should review this matter and make
a recommendation to council. Mr. Gabbard stated that he feels anyone that
serves the community for such a lengthy period should have something named
after them. He stated that Mr. Schadler was mayor when the city was a smaller
community during tougher times.
21.   Mayor Kriege stated that regardless of the outcome of the vote on this
motion, that he feels this matter should be discussed by the Building and
Recreation Committee as suggested by Mr. Dupps. Roll call was answered with
three-yes votes cast by Mr. Ellison, Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Moriconi and two no
votes cast by Mr. Dupps and Mr. Kudera. Motion carried 3-2 in favor of naming
the park in the Lakefield Subdivision to Marion Schadler Park.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT – Mark T. Wendling
22.   Senior Center – Mr. Wendling reported the carpet is being installed and
the project is expected to be completed by the end of the week.
Street Repairs – Mr. Wendling reported that Beechgrove Drive has been milled
and that Adahi is approximately one-half completed. Mr. Smith reported the
faulty joints have been removed from Holton Drive and that the asphalt work
will begin on Beechgrove Drive. He stated that Roselawn Drive repairs would
begin soon. Mr. Smith stated that if good weather continues all road repairs
should soon be complete for the year. Mr. Gabbard commented about reports of
mail delivery being interrupted on Adahi during the street repairs. Mr. Smith
stated he is aware of these problems and will continue to monitor the situation
until the street repairs are complete.
Willow Drive – Mr. Wendling stated that progress is being made on solving this
drainage problem. The EPA tested the water and it appears to be ground water.
He stated he would meet with the Sanitation District next week to do an on-site
inspection.
Memorial Park Master Plan – Mr. Wendling reported the master plan
questionnaires have been prepared and are available at the city building and on
the city’s website.
Gunstock Court – Mr. Wendling reported that a letter has been sent to Ms. Tammy
Dorgan informing her of the city’s position on the lake on the common area
behind her house.
TEA 21 Grant – Mr. Wendling reported that the Department of Transportation has
notified the city that we can begin drawing on the grant any time. He will
begin working with the city engineer on this project of installing sidewalks
from Hartland Blvd. to Walnut Hall Drive. Mr. Gabbard asked when this project
would begin. Mr. Wendling stated it would be best to begin this construction in
the spring of 2002. Mr. Gabbard suggested bidding the project out prior to the
end of this year.
Lakefield Park – Mr. Wendling reported that the play equipment and sidewalks
have been installed. He stated when the park is completely constructed it will
be deeded to the city by the Drees Corporation.
Assistant Police Chief – Mr. Wendling advised that interviews for this newly
created position has been conducted the last couple of weeks. A recommendation
should be ready for next month’s meeting.
1020 Mount Zion Road – Mr. Wendling stated that charges have been filed against
the owner of this property and a court date is scheduled for October 10, 2001.
This is a business that has been illegally operating out of a residential
trailer in a residential zone for about two years.
23.   Mr. Moriconi inquired on the status of the amphitheater. Mr. Wendling
stated this project has been delayed until the spring of 2002. Mr. Gabbard
asked if this project would be let out for bid in February. Mayor Kriege
advised this project would be reviewed after the Memorial Park Master Plan is
complete.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
24.   Mr. Kudera stated that the committee did not meet in September and that a
combined meeting with the Building and Recreation Committee will meet on
October 17, 2001.
Building & Recreation Committee
25.   Mr. Moriconi stated the committee did not meet in September but would
meet with the Finance Committee on October 17, 2001.
Planning & Zoning Committee
26.   Mr. Ellison stated the committee did not meet in September and that the
next scheduled meeting is on October 18, 2001.
Public Safety Committee
27.   Mr. Dupps reported the committee discussed refining safety procedures in
response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center
and the Pentagon. He reported that the third class of the Citizens Police
Academy has commenced and that the golf outing was a success.
28.   Mayor Kriege asked the status of the Resource Officer grant application.
Mr. Dupps stated they have not received confirmation on the grant yet.
Public Works Committee
29.   Mr. Gabbard stated the committee needed to schedule a date for this month
to meet. It was agreed to meet on October 10, 2001 at 6:00 p.m. at the city
building.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
30.   Mayor Kriege stated he had nothing to report.
31.   Mr. Moriconi inquired about designating a zone for adult businesses. He
stated that he has learned there is no zoning ordinance to prevent this type of
business from locating in the city. He stated that he is aware the city cannot
legally ban this type of business but recommends the city put limits on it.
Mayor Kriege instructed the city attorney to start research on an ordinance
that would fit the needs of Independence. Mr. Walker stated that he helped
write the Kenton County ordinance and feels confident that he can propose one
that would benefit the city. Mr. Ellison stated that he thinks an obscenity
ordinance or something similar may have been adopted by the city a few years
ago.
32.   Mr. Gabbard asked how Councilman Jim Bushong was doing. Mayor Kriege
stated that Mr. Bushong is recovering from his recent heart surgery and had a
slight set back last week. He stated that he underwent further medical tests
today.
Adjournment
33.   Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Kudera the meeting was
adjourned at 8:08 p.m. Motion carried.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 5, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty gave the invocation. Council Members Jim
Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera, and Chris Moriconi
answered roll call. Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and
City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the October 1, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to accept the minutes of the council meeting of
October 1, 200 with Mr. Dupps seconding the motion. Mr. Gabbard requested an
amendment of paragraph sixteen on an amendment to his motion regarding the
$5,000 donation to the New York City Police and Firemen’s Survivors Fund. He
stated that he has requested and the City Clerk has agreed to review the audio/
video tape for clarification of his motion and to make any needed changes. Mr.
Gabbard made a motion to make the changes to this section of the minutes if
warranted. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr.
Moriconi also asked for an amendment of paragraph fifteen. Amendments were
noted and Mr. Ellison’s motion and Mr. Dupps second carried unanimously. No
roll call.
Presentation of the 2000/01 Audit by Linda Chapman of Rankin, Rankin & Company
3.   Linda Chapman of Rankin, Rankin & Company presented the audit report with
council. She stated the audit was conducted in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards. Ms. Chapman advised that the lease with the
Kentucky League of Cities for $450,000 for the Senior Center and the lease-
purchase debt for the cruisers of $172,781 was the reason for the increase in
fund balances. Also, the increase in fixed assets is due to the Senior Center.
Ms. Chapman advised council that the city’s prior years fund balance increased
by approximately $316,000 due to the implementation of GASB 33 as of June 30,
2001. She stated that this is a paper entry only and represents earlier
recognition of payroll and gross receipt tax received July, August and
September of this year and in future years. She stated that no major errors or
indications of fraud were found.
4.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to accept the audit as presented; seconded by Mr.
Ellison. Roll call was unanimous. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Keith Napier, 869 Stephens Road, addressed council concerning his desire
to subdivide 2.5 acres on Stephens Road, which is owned by his mother, in order
to build a house on 1.3 acres of this land. He stated that personal concerns
regarding the health of his mother and invalid sister necessitate his presence
to care for them. Mr. Napier stated that the city currently has in effect an
ordinance that prohibits flag lots, thereby prohibiting the variance needed to
divide this property so that he can build a house. He stated that he feels this
land has been rendered useless due to the ordinance prohibiting flag lots.
6.   Mr. Gabbard stated that the ordinance would not permit a variance. Mayor
Kriege suggested that the Planning & Zoning Committee review this ordinance for
a possible repeal or amendment. Mr. Gabbard expressed concern of repealing/
amending this ordinance as it may open the door for others in similar
situations that want flag lots.
7.   Mr. Wendling stated he has been working with the city attorney’s
associate, Jeffrey Smith, to modify the ordinance to accomplish the original
intention of the ordinance while helping Mr. Napier and others with similar
needs. He stated it would take some time to accomplish the presentation of an
amended ordinance. Mr. Napier stated that he is approaching a deadline, as he
needs to take possession of the modular house by February 2002.
8.   Again, Mayor Kriege suggested the Planning & Zoning Committee review this
ordinance for a possible amendment and bring a recommendation to the December
council meeting. Mr. Kudera suggested adding a grandfather clause to the
ordinance. City Attorney, Mr. Walker stated that he has looked into this matter
and advised there are some options to be looked at. Mr. Ellison suggested the
Planning & Zoning Committee meet on Wednesday, November 7 at 4:30 p.m. The
other committee members agreed.
9.   Sandy Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane, addressed council requesting an update on
the matter regarding the maintenance of Justice Lane, which she presented to
council at last month’s meeting. Mr. Walker stated that he has provided to
council and mayor a written opinion on this matter, which he is reluctant to
discuss outside of an executive session. Ms. Woolum stated that she felt this
should be a public matter. Mr. Gabbard agreed this matter should be discussed
in open session. Mayor Kriege and Mr. Kudera agreed with the city attorney that
this should be discussed in executive session, which will be held at the end of
the regular session.
10.   Bill Ahearn, 2032 Mapletree Lane, addressed council regarding the zoning
violations at 11515 Madison Pike owed by Ted Davidson. He stated this property
is an eyesore with many junk cars including about ten tractor-trailers on a
gravel lot. He stated the smoke emission and noise from the running pay loaders
has become intolerable for the surrounding neighbors. He also mentioned the
sound of guns being discharged coming from this property. He stated that he has
spoken with Zoning Administrator, Rich McAllister on several occasions about
this property, and wants it to be public record that the neighbors in this area
want these violations to be abated. Mayor Kriege responded that this matter has
been an on-going situation and will notify Mr. McAllister to look into it.
11.   Raymond Kahrs, 2931 Senour Road, came before council to protest paying a
trash assessment for property he owns where the house is vacant. He stated that
since no one lives in the house and no trash is brought to the curb that he
shouldn’t be required to pay for a service that is not used. Mayor Kriege
explained that Rumpke (the trash pickup contractor) charges the city for each
house in the city. He stated that since the city is charged for this, it is a
pass-through expense to the property owner. Mr. Kahrs stated he should not have
to pay for two trash assessments when he only needs it for the house he lives
in. Mayor Kriege advised the city could not begin a precedent of waiving the
trash assessment charge, as others that choose not to use the service would
then expect this. Mayor Kriege suggested the city could make arrangements for
him to make payments on this assessment if it was a hardship for him to pay the
entire $91.16. Mr. Kahrs agreed to meet with the City Clerk to discuss options
for payment.
OLD BUSINESS
Discussion of Donation to NYC Police & Firemen’s Survivors Fund & Blood Drive
12.   Mr. Gabbard inquired on the status of his motion last month to donate
$5,000 to the New York City Police and Firemen’s Survivors Fund and if staff
was able to find the funds in the budget to fulfill this motion. He also stated
that he called the Hoxworth Blood Center to see if the city made arrangements
for the mobile unit to come to Independence for a blood drive (which was also
part of the motion last month) and was informed that such a request had not
been made by the city. Mayor Kriege stated that the timing was not as they were
scheduling people out. Mr. Gabbard stated he was advised by Hoxworth that they
are behind in scheduling the mobile units, but if the city can promise forty or
more donors that they will schedule a unit for the city. Mr. Wendling stated
that he did not call Hoxworth to arrange for a mobile unit due to media reports
saying that no blood was needed at this time. He stated that he had heard that
Hoxworth was turning people away. Mr. Gabbard stated that Hoxworth has a
regularly scheduled mobile unit coming to the Kroger parking lot on December
28, 2001 but that they would make a special trip before then if forty donors
would sign up. He stated he would handle the arrangements.
13.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to put Mr. Gabbard in charge of arrangements for
a special blood drive; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Mr. Moriconi stated that he read
an article a couple of weeks ago that the Red Cross was not accepting donors
and that blood has a shelf life of forty-two days. Mr. Gabbard stated that
certain, rare types of blood are always needed. He added, that as a city, we
should show our patriotism and urged all elected officials to get behind this
endeavor. Mayor Kriege reminded council there was a motion and second on the
floor. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
14.   Mr. Wendling stated that he felt with the city loosing two patrol
officers to active military duty that the $5,000 donation may be better spent
by picking up the difference in salary and military pay for these two officers.
Mr. Gabbard felt the city could still find $5,000 excess in the budget to
contribute to NYC. Mayor Kriege stated he did not feel the city could afford to
make that contribution, in addition to paying the salary gap to the two
officers, and the need to provide replacements in the police department for
these officers. Mayor Kriege cautioned that it is too early in the fiscal year
to estimate where the city will end up with regard to finances. Mr. Walker
advised there are legalities involved with the city making donations to
charities. Mr. Gabbard stated that he felt this type of donation was no
different than those given to the Independence Lions Club for the Easter Egg
Hunt or Simon Kenton High School for Project Prom. He stated the NYC Survivors
Fund is not a charitable organization. Mayor Kriege asked council how they
wanted to proceed. He stated they can review the budget or take Mr. Walker’s
advise. Mr. Moriconi stated he would like to contribute the $5,000 to the city
police officer’s that were called to active duty. Chief Butler stated that
federal law mandates that an employer pay a service member on a monthly basis
the lesser of (1) the difference between the gross monthly salary as an
employee and the sum of the gross military pay or (2) $500. Mr. Gabbard asked
what the term of duty was for each officer. Chief Butler replied that the
minimum duty term is six months; then it will be reviewed for a possible
extension. Mr. Gabbard stated that if council was willing to bridge the gap
between the employee’s salary and the military pay while on active duty that he
would agree to abandon this cause. Chief Butler advised that the continuation
of the health insurance for these employees is also an issue that needs to be
addressed.
15.   Mayor Kriege recommended that the council authorize payment of the
difference of salary for the active military duty employees in lieu of the
$5,000 donation to the NYC Police and Firemen’s Survivor’s Fund. Mr. Kudera
expressed concern that this may be premature, as the other patrol officers will
be working overtime to fill in for the loss of two patrol officers. He
anticipates that the police department’s overtime budget will be exceeded very
quickly and worries this will be an open ended situation.
16.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to authorize payment to active military duty
employees the difference between their military salary and city salary for the
next six months. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Mr. Bushong asked for
clarification on the ‘difference’. Chief Butler stated the difference would be
from the basic military pay. Mr. Ellison advised the city would need to get a
copy of the military pay voucher. He stated that he agreed the city needed to
do this so that the officers could continue to maintain their houses, cars,
etc. while on active duty. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-07 Appointing J. David Nichols as Assistant Police
Chief
17.   Mayor Kriege read Executive Order No. 2001-EO-07 that would promote Lt.
Dave Nichols to the newly created position of Assistant Chief of Police. Mayor
Kriege stated that he is making this appointment upon recommendation of Chief
Butler. Mayor Kriege called Lt. Nichols forward to take the Oath of Office and
present him with the lieutenant colonel oak leaves pins, symbolic of this rank.
Resolution No. 2001-R-14 Authorizing Participation in the Managed Care
Organization of the Kentucky League of Cities Workers Compensation
18.   Mr. Wendling explained to council that the city is switching insurance
for liability and workers’ compensation coverage to the Kentucky League of
Cities and that the proposed resolution is required in order to participate in
the managed care organization of the workers’ compensation. He added that as a
participating member the city will receive and additional 5% premium discount.
Mr. Gabbard stated that before he voted to adopt this resolution that he would
like to know how much the city would save and if the employees will be required
to be treated by certain physicians. Mr. Wendling replied that this coverage is
for workers’ compensation coverage, not the general health insurance policy
provided to the employees. Mr. Gabbard stated he understood that but would like
to know, dollars wise, how much will be saved by participating in the managed
care organization. Mayor Kriege stated he did not have that information readily
available, but would get that data for him.
19.   Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2001-R-14 in title only. Motion was made
by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Kudera to adopt Resolution No. 2001-R-14. Roll
call was answered with five ayes and one nay by Mr. Gabbard. Mr. Gabbard stated
he voted no because the monetary savings was not presented. Motion carried 5-
1 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-08 Appointing Janet W. Rebman as Finance Director
20.   Mayor Kriege read Executive Order No. 2001-EO-08 appointing Janet W.
Rebman as the new Finance Director. He stated that he would like council to
approve this appointment and authorize him to enter into a contract with Ms.
Rebman.
21.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to adopt Executive Order No. 2001-EO-08 and
authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into a contract with Ms. Rebman. Mr. Ellison
seconded the motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Gabbard stated that he
feels the term of the contract should be consistent with the fiscal year
budget; end on June 30, 2002, and then renew on July 1, 2002 for the next
fiscal year. Mr. Kudera disagreed and stated that everything doesn’t need to
match the fiscal year calendar. Mayor Kriege stated that he did not feel this
was a big deal and this change could be made if Ms. Rebman is agreeable. Roll
call was answered with all ayes; motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Creating the Position of Emergency Operation Director –
1st Reading
22.   Mayor Kriege stated the proposed ordinance would create the position of
an Emergency Operations Director for the city and called upon Chief Butler to
explain this position. Chief Butler informed council that having an Emergency
Operations Director would be necessary in case the city would experience an
emergency disaster and need state assistance. He explained that thirteen cities
in Northern Kentucky have established this position and then appointed the
Kenton County Emergency Operations Direction, Ed Burke to fill this position.
He explained there are several problems with establishing this department and
hiring a full time employee for the city, as this position requires extensive
training and the city would be required to purchase expensive equipment. He
stated that the county has graciously offered to provide this service to
Independence. He stated that Mr. Burke is a paid county employee and has a
trained staff. Chief Butler advised that this position and department is
necessary but is just not physically feasible for the city to operate and
maintain.
23.   Mr. Gabbard expressed concern that with so many cities being served by
the county how they would be able to assist everyone adequately. Chief Butler
stated he felt there would be a coordinate effort between the cities and the
county. Mayor Kriege stated that the intent of this ordinance is to create the
position and then appoint Mr. Burke. Chief Butler stated that he would invite
Mr. Burke to address council before appointing him as Emergency Operations
Director for the city. Mr. Walker stated the proposed ordinance is the same one
used by the other cities. Mr. Gabbard inquired about a compensation clause. Mr.
Walker stated that the county pays Mr. Burke, but that the city pay plan will
need to indicate that a salary was not set by ordinance.
24.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance to create the position of Emergency Operations Director; seconded by
Mr. Dupps. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes and Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance.
NEW BUSINESS
25.   Mr. Gabbard addressed the correspondence in the council packets from the
property owners in the vicinity of the Independence Towne Center that included
petitions to rezone their properties for the updated Comprehensive Plan. Mr.
Gabbard asked if the city had a committee working on the Comprehensive Plan.
Mayor Kriege advised he is on the committee of the Planning Commission and
reported that the Planning Commission has suggested that Independence needs an
individual comprehensive plan separate from Kenton County because of the rapid
growth in this area.
26.   Mr. Ellison stated that he has observed loaded tractor-trailers using the
Richardson Road route in the Beechgrove area and is concerned that the bridge
crossing the railroad tracks into Boone County will not be able to handle the
weight of these vehicles. Chief Butler stated that the bridge is in Boone
County. Mr. Wendling stated that the trucks are trying to find alternate
routes.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
27.   Streets – Mr. Wendling reported that all street work is complete with the
exception of Roselawn Drive, which will receive the overlay soon.
Marion Schadler Park – The city has been working with the Drees Company to
ensure all conditions are met before deeding the park over to the city. He
stated that it would probably be the first of the new year before this is
complete. Mr. Moriconi expressed concern that the ground beneath the stairway
is eroding. Mr. Wendling stated they have pointed this out to Drees. Also, the
city has requested a handrail be installed for the stairway. He assured council
that the city engineer is monitoring the development of the park.
1020 Mt. Zion Road Zoning Violation – The city is still in the process of
resolving this violation. He stated that a pre-trial hearing was held on
October 10, 2001 and a bench trial is scheduled for December 20, 2001. The
property owner has promised to clean up the property before the December bench
trial.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
28.   Mr. Kudera reported that the committee met with the Building/Recreation
Committee to discuss the feasibility plans for a municipal building. He advised
that no decisions were made.
Building & Recreation Committee
29.   Mr. Moriconi reported this committee met with the Finance Committee in a
joint committee meeting at the Independence Firehouse Station No. 1. He stated
that the discussion centered on a building and possible sites. Mayor Kriege
stated that he would like to schedule a couple of meetings in November to move
this project forward. Mr. Moriconi suggested looking into the Smith property at
the corner of Peach Drive and Madison Pike as this property abuts Memorial
Park. Mayor Kriege stated the first special meeting to discuss this project
will be held on Thursday, November 8, 2001 and council will be provided with as
much data as possible so that this project can proceed. He stated that
alternate site suggestions would be provided. Mr. Bushong asked if the
adjoining Smith property would then be added to Memorial Park’s master plan.
Mayor Kriege stated that is a possibility.
Personnel & Administration Committee
30.   Mr. Bushong reported the committee discussed the two candidates for the
Finance Director position and paying the difference between the city salary and
the military salary for the two officers called to active duty.
Planning & Zoning Committee
31.   Mr. Ellison stated the committee did not meet. This committee agreed to
schedule a meeting for Wednesday, November 7, 2001 at 4:30 p.m. at the city
building.
Public Safety Committee
32.   Mr. Dupps stated the committee is soliciting support from the state
senators for the grant for resource officers. Chief Butler stated the
department did not receive funding during this first round of grants awarded.
Mr. Dupps reported that there would be twenty-one graduates from the third
class of the Citizens Police Academy. He stated that the next meeting of this
committee would be held on November 20, 2001 at 5:30 p.m. in the offices of the
police department.
Public Works Committee
33.   Mr. Gabbard stated this committee reviewed a list of general items
completed by the Public Works Department. He stated they discussed whether or
not the NKAP&Z should be on-site to supervise the installation of concrete
poured streets. He stated that Jeff Smith would call the Department of Local
Government to check on this. There was a brief discussion about having the city
engineer supervise the concrete pour when the new streets are installed. Dave
Whitacre, City Engineer, stated that they used to receive notices of when the
streets would be installed, but that they no longer receive these notices.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
34.   Mayor Kriege reported there will be two special council meetings in
November. The first meeting will be this Thursday, November 8th at 7:00 p.m. at
the Beechgrove Clubhouse and the second meeting will be on Monday, November
26th at 7:00 p.m. at the Kenton County Extension Center on Marshall Road. He
stated that agenda items will include the review of building sites for a
municipal center, funding for the project and building schematics. The meetings
will also provide an opportunity for citizen feedback, as there has been some
controversy over possible sites for the project.
35.   Mayor Kriege also reminded council that the Municipal Government League
of Northern Kentucky will hold the annual dinner on Saturday, November 17, 2001
and encouraged their attendance.
PROCLAMATION
36.   Mayor Kriege stated that a proclamation in support of Northern Kentucky
University’s agenda for the 2002 General Assembly’s session is being presented
at the request of the NKU Alumni Council and Student Government Association.
The university is hoping to build awareness of the funding needs for capital
projects, infrastructure repairs and renovations and to obtain funding from the
state for these needs. Mayor Kriege stated that it is important to support this
effort as many citizens attend the university.
37.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to read the proclamation; seconded by Mr. Kudera.
No roll call, motion carried with all ayes and Mayor Kriege read the
proclamation.
Citizen Comment
38.   Mr. Bob Dodson, 3921 Trappers Court, stated that the Hunters Green
Subdivision currently looks like a truck stop. He requested help from the city
by way of police patrolling the area and re-installing the traffic signs that
were removed during street repairs. Mayor Kriege stated he would have the
Public Works Department erect the signs.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
39.   Mayor Kriege requested an executive session. Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard
and second by Mr. Kudera an executive session was called in accordance with
K.R.S. 61.810 (c) and (f) for the purpose of discussing pending litigation and
personnel matters.
40.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Gabbard the regular session of
the meeting resumed. Motion carried with all ayes.
Approval of Increase in the City Administrator’s Salary
41.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to increase the City Administrator’s salary
and make it retroactive to August, his six-month anniversary with the city. Mr.
Bushong seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor.
Discussion Regarding the Maintenance of Justice Lane
42.   Mayor Kriege asked Ms. Woolum if she had copies of the plats for the
properties on Justice Lane. She stated she gave her research findings to the
city attorney last month. She stated that part of Mr. Walker’s research should
have been obtaining copies of the plats. Mr. Walker asked her if Justice Lane
was shown on her plat. She replied no. Mr. Walker asked Ms. Woolum if Mr.
Scherder signed an easement for the road. She stated that she was unsure, but
that the sale of the property did not require it to be surveyed. She stated her
property had to be surveyed, as the other eighty-three acres was not platted.
43.   Mr. Walker stated that as he understands it, Justice Lane as used crosses
over Mr. Scherder’s property. Ms. Woolum stated that the original deed, which
was Mary Bannister’s farm, reserved a forty-foot right of way and that for
years this road has been unrestricted to public use. She stated that the
portion of the road shown on her plat was dedicated by the city.
44.   Mayor Kriege asked council how they wanted to proceed with this matter.
He stated the options are to affirm the maintenance of the road, repeal the
ordinance or do nothing at all. Mr. Ellison suggested reviewing both plots to
see what actually exists. Mr. Gabbard suggested obtaining a copy of the
Bannister farm plat so this could be reviewed also. Mr. Walker stated he could
get a copy of that if it is still on record at the courthouse, but advised that
he is advising council based on the current issues at hand. Mr. Walker went on
to say that the ordinance is the only thing stating this is a right-of-way and
that anything prior to that is a private matter between Ms. Woolum and her
neighbors. He stated a public right-of-way has to be owned by the public.
Again, Mayor Kriege suggested that the Planning & Zoning Committee review this
matter and make a recommendation to council.
45.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to, prior to dedicating Justice Lane, it should
be surveyed as prescribed and in a legal manner as a city street as it
presently exists. The motion died for lack of a second.
46.   Mayor Kriege suggested that Mr. Walker research this matter, then the
Planning and Zoning Committee review his findings and make a recommendation to
council. Mr. Ellison made a motion to have the city attorney obtain all plats
that touch Justice Lane and provide his research findings to council. Mr.
Bushong seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one
no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
47.   Mr. Walker stated that he would need Ms. Woolum to assist him in locating
these properties on Justice Lane because Justice Lane is not platted. He stated
he would need property owner names to obtain the necessary documents. Ms.
Woolum agreed to do this. Mr. Moriconi stated that the Property Valuation
Assessment office of Kenton County would also be a source of information. Mr.
Walker replied that the PVA office can only assist on platted parcels and that
some of the properties in question have not been platted.
Adjournment
48.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Mr. Ellison. The motion
carried with all ayes and
______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
___________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 8, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the special meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. at the
Beechgrove Clubhouse. Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special
meeting was to discuss the following agenda items:
§   Discussion and Review of Potential Municipal Center Sites
§   Discussion and Review of Proposed Building Schemes
§   Discussion and Review of Financing and Budget Options
§   Discussion and Review of Design Proposal
§   Open the Floor for Citizen Feedback
2.   Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard. Jim
Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance was City
Administrator, Mark T. Wendling and City Attorney, Jeffrey S. Smith sitting in
for H. Lawson Walker.
3.   Mr. Wendling presented council with a summary report of the feasibility
study for a new municipal center that would house all city offices in one
central location. He stated that Matrix Architects was contracted to perform
the study, which was completed and presented to council in September. Mr.
Wendling stated that the study included evaluation of five proposed sites,
analysis of program requirements, building schematics and estimated costs of
construction. He stated that city staff members worked with Matrix on each
aspect of the study and that each potential site details the positive and/or
negative features. He stated that the positives to constructing a municipal
center at Memorial Park or Staggs Park is that these properties are owned by
the city, thus eliminating the added cost of purchasing land to build on. Mr.
Wendling examined each site in the Project Summary with council pointing out
the pros and cons of each site. He advised, that of the two building schematics
presented, that both staff and the architects recommended the split-level
design. He stated that the site of the current administration building was
briefly considered but it was determined to have too many expensive and safety
disadvantages to make it a viable site.
4.   Mr. Wendling reported that since the feasibility study was completed in
September, that council has suggested two other possible sites. The sites are:
5407 Madison Pike (at the corner of Peach Drive) owned by Taylor Smith and the
Masonic Lodge at 5403 Madison Pike. He stated that the Smith property is
currently for sale but that the Lodge property is not, and the trustees of the
Lodge may not be interested in selling the property. He stated the Smith
property would infringe upon the Peach Drive neighborhood, but that most of the
proposed sites would be in close proximity to a residential neighborhood.
5.   Mr. Wendling stated that the estimated construction costs range from $3.5M
to $4.3M and are detailed in the feasibility study report. He stated that the
data packets provided also include the building schematics and space needs
assessment. He stated that the space is less than what is actually needed and
it is recommended to construct a building large enough to withstand 10-20 years
of growth. He advised that adding on later would cost more in the long run.
6.   Also included in the data packet is the budget and financing options
available. Mr. Wendling advised that in order to move forward that council
would need to take measures to raise revenue. He stated the city could obtain a
loan through the Danville Bond Pool for a seventeen-year period or the
Jeffersontown Bond Pool for a twenty-seven year period. These pools are through
the Kentucky League of Cities. Mayor Kriege stated that the Jeffersontown Bond
Pool has fees associated with it because it is a relatively new pool; he feels
the cost incurred could be considerable over the life of the loan.
7.   Mayor Kriege stated that the Finance Director, Amy Guenther, has updated
the five-year projection. Mrs. Guenther reviewed the estimated fund balance
worksheet with council explaining the difference between the audited versus the
estimated figures. She stated that this worksheet looks at the trends over the
last three years. She reminded council that the city would be taking on the
added debt of the mortgage for the Senior Center and the smaller debt of the
cruiser lease-purchase payments. Mrs. Guenther stated that a certain amount of
additional revenue is predictable, but if a major corporation in the industrial
park would shut down, it would make a significant impact on the city’s revenue.
8.   Mr. Wendling suggested that as the economy grows and businesses expand
more development could come about, especially with the re-routing of State Hwy.
17 and other major road improvements. He went on to say that when comparing
Independence with other cities, similar in makeup, that we have the lowest
taxing revenue. Mrs. Guenther stated that Northern Kentucky Area Development
District did a similar comparison study and the results showed that
Independence was fifth lowest overall and second lowest in Kenton County. Mr.
Wendling reviewed the Household tax comparison by locality worksheet, which
compares the current makeup of revenue with other cities and shows potential
sources for revenue. The list of potential revenue sources include: insurance
premium tax, park tax, road tax, Senior Center tax, increase the property tax
rate at greater than the compensating rate, increase the payroll tax and non-
renewal of the cable board agreement would save the city $20,000. Mr. Wendling
stated that if the property tax rate was set at a rate greater than the
compensating rate plus 4% that it would be subject to voter recall. He also
suggested that the payroll tax, currently at 1.25 %, could be increased to 1.5%
or greater. Mr. Wendling advised that the Senior Center tax and the road tax
must be a referendum placed on the ballot at a general election.
9.   Mayor Kriege requested that council review the information presented and
be prepared to arrive at a conclusion by the December 3rd regular council
meeting. Mr. Moriconi inquired as to if the city could afford a $250,000 to
$300,000 annual mortgage payment without taking measures to adopt new or
increase current taxes to raise the revenue. Mrs. Guenther advised that was
uncertain, but that it may be possible to handle such a mortgage for a couple
of years, but probably not longer, without increasing the city’s revenue. Mr.
Kudera stated that other expenses would have to be considered, such as increase
in property insurance, etc. He stated that other related expenses could be
substantial. Mrs. Guenther advised that with the current level of revenue, the
Police and Public Works Departments would not be able to grow.
10.   Mr. Dupps asked Chief Butler if the current staffing of his department
could handle things. Chief Butler stated that calls are up 17% and he is
currently short in staff. He stated that he will feel compelled to ask for two
new officers next year and one every year thereafter. Chief Butler stated there
are many intangibles but is certain there will be a need for more officers in
the future.
11.   Mr. Wendling advised council that the Public Works Department also needs
to add staff in the coming year. He stated the growth in the city is becoming
very demanding on this two-man department. He also advised the administration
department will need additional staffing within the next five years. Mr.
Wendling stated that some issues couldn’t be answered until the fiscal budget
is reviewed each year but that it would be necessary to deal with one issue at
a time. Chief Butler said his department would continue to apply for grants to
offset some of the cost of staffing. Mr. Wendling commented on the dilemma
between adding staff and constructing a municipal center. He added that as far
as the police department’s prolonged rental of space from the county on the
second floor of the courthouse, the county has permitted the city to stay until
the process regarding the municipal center is complete. Mr. Wendling stated
that if the city does not move forward with this project, we will have to
discuss other options with the county to see if they will continue to lease
this space to the city. He stated they have expressed interest in using the
second floor of the courthouse for county offices and may not be agreeable to a
long-term lease for this space. Mr. Kudera stated that next year is an election
year and fears the next sitting Fiscal Court may not feel compelled to honor
the agreement with the city for this rental space.
12.   Mr. Kudera commented that he feels the site selection is important in
order to begin work on financing the project. Mayor Kriege stated that he feels
site selection and financing is an important package and advised council that
the Kentucky League of Cities has committed to lending the city the finances
needed to proceed. Mr. Ellison agreed that the city is in need of a municipal
building and informed council that this type of project was put off years ago
due to the need to build a sewer system. He questioned if the city knows how
much borrowing power we have. Mayor Kriege stated he has been assured KLC will
lend the city what we need. Mr. Ellison stated the debt from the sewer system
project might be a liability against our borrowing power. Mr. Kudera stated
that he feels the sewer system is self-sustaining and has no reflection on the
city tax rate.
13.   Mr. Moriconi expressed interest in purchasing only a section of the
Masonic Lodge property at 5403 Madison Pike instead of the entire property. Mr.
Ellison stated he doesn’t see the need to purchase this property. A lengthy
discussion ensued regarding possible sites, including the Smith property and
the Masonic Lodge property. Susan Keeny, project architect with Matrix, stated
there would be some work needed to the Smith property and that there would be
limited parking. She estimated the municipal center would need 3-4 acres for
building and parking space. She stated they have reviewed the Smith and Masonic
Lodge properties, but their findings are very preliminary. Mr. Ellison
questioned whether the buildings could fit on the Smith site. Ms. Keeny stated
that anything was possible when programming the spaces. Mayor Kriege stated
that square footage could be cut in the meeting room. Ms. Keeny also advised
that the lobby and council room could be tightened. She stated that it was
important to first determine a site and then the building schematic can be
adjusted to make it work on the site. Mr. Wendling stated that the actual
design phase will be where the details of the building will be more specific.
Mayor Kriege asked council if they were interested in obtaining the Smith
property. Mr. Moriconi stated that since the property abuts Memorial Park it is
a good location. He stated the property is for sale and he has talked with the
current owner and learned he will work with the city. Mr. Wendling asked the
city attorney to research as to whether the city can purchase property for more
than the fair market value. Mr. Kudera stated that the city could offer a price
and if the owner and the city couldn’t agree on price then the city could take
the property by eminent domain. Mayor Kriege stated he would like to look into
the purchase of the Lodge property also. Mr. Gabbard stated that he is a member
of the Lodge and said that he was not aware if they were interested in selling
the property. Mr. Bushong stated there is a lot behind the Lodge that may be
useful if needed. Mr. Moriconi asked Mr. Gabbard to ask the Lodge if they would
sell part of the lot. Mayor Kriege asked council if they wanted to consider
this site.
14.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to move forward with the Smith property;
seconded by Mr. Ellison. City Attorney, Jeffrey S. Smith, stated that the
agenda does not specify that action would take place at this meeting and
recommended the motion be withdrawn. Mr. Moriconi and Mr. Ellison withdrew
their motion and second.
15.   Mayor Kriege asked if there was a consensus from council to move forward
with this by way of a cost analysis and site evaluation to see if the building
would fit on this site. Ms. Keeny said they could provide a proposal for a cost
estimate and evaluation for this site. Mr. Ellison stated he would like to see
the cost of moving the Memorial Park play equipment backed out of the original
estimate.
16.   Mr. Wendling stated the Memorial Park Master Plan is on hold indefinitely
with the introduction of these new sites that abut the park. Mr. Dupps asked if
the Smith site information would be prepared in time for the next special
meeting on November 26, 2001. Ms. Keeny did not promise but stated she would
try to be ready by then. Mayor Kriege asked if the design proposal could be
presented too. Ms. Keeny stated that a design proposal would be premature at
this time.
CITIZEN FEEDBACK
17.   Joanne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, spoke in favor of remodeling the
current Administration Building at 5247 Madison Pike next to her property. She
referred to Mr. Wendling’s opening remarks wherein he stated that the site of
the current Administration Building was considered early on in the feasibility
study for a possible site with the purchase of neighboring property and asked
why she hadn’t been contacted about this. Mr. Wendling stated this option was
discussed but was eliminated at the onset for various reasons. Mrs. Cobble
commented that she felt it was unnecessary to house both administration and
police in the same building and that the current administration building could
be easily added on to. She suggested renovating the old firehouse to house the
police department. Mr. Wendling explained that the county owns the old
firehouse, not the city, and the county has no interest in selling the building
to the city. He added that the city currently leases storage space in the old
firehouse, but is being evicted because the county is moving their Parks and
Recreation Department into the space. He stated the remodeling the current city
building might be more expensive in the long run. Mr. Wendling stressed the
need to concentrate all city offices in a campus type setting that would
produce better communications within the departments and serve the city for
many years. Mrs. Cobble stated the drive thru lane at the city building could
be easily converted and the building space doubled for considerably less than
the projected $4M for a new municipal center.
18.   Mr. Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, suggested the state might fill in the
hollow at Memorial Park (at the Madison Pike site) with fill dirt free of
charge. Mr. Wendling stated that the site would require a significant amount of
fill and work. Mrs. Cobble commented that she feels the area of the new
firehouse is a dangerous site in regard to traffic congestion. Again, she
suggested the city remodel the old firehouse into offices for the police
department. Mr. Wendling stated the county owns the firehouse. Mr. Dupps
explained that the city looked into the possibility of purchasing the old
firehouse a couple of years ago, but because the land that the firehouse sets
on was owned by the county the Independence Fire District accepted the county’s
offer to purchase the building. Mr. Kudera advised Mrs. Cobble that the lease
and ownership of the old firehouse building was never an option for the city to
purchase.
19.   Rita King, 6523 Sugar Camp Drive, suggested the city purchase the old
Ponzer’s Restaurant building at 5277 Madison Pike to renovate for police
department offices. Mr. Moriconi stated that he would like to see the city
avoid this type of ‘band-aid’ solution to this growing problem. He also
commented that the city doesn’t have time to coordinate obtaining fill-dirt for
the Memorial Park site. Mrs. King commented that she was not opposed to
building a new center, but that her main concern was how the city planned to
pay for a $4M municipal center.
20.   Mayor Kriege commented that a municipal center is a necessity and that it
can be funded if the city adds a revenue source. He stated that it is important
to move forward and that council will have to make some hard decisions. Mrs.
King commented that some of the council members promised not to raise taxes
when they were running for office. She stated that she wanted to see the
numbers on how the city planned to pay for this project. Mr. Kudera stated that
some of the council members may have promised not to raise taxes before
becoming familiar with the city finances and growing needs. He stated that
circumstances change and it is now time to reconsider, now that they know the
facts before them.
21.   Mrs. Cobble commented that she feels there should be a renovation plan
for the downtown area. Mr. Kudera commented that renovating the downtown area
would be expensive. Mayor Kriege stated that the city would soon be working
with the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission to design an individual
Comprehensive Plan for Independence, separate from the Kenton County Plan. He
commented that he cares very much about the future of the downtown area. Mr.
Kudera commented that he feels the downtown has moved to the Independence Towne
Center. He stated that many cities across the country are going broke trying to
revitalize their downtown areas and wondered how a city can bring people to the
downtown.
22.   Mr. Gabbard stated that he agrees with Mr. & Mrs. Cobble. He stated that
he would like to see the city purchase four or five acres from the Cobble’s,
fill in some of the low area, and remodel the current administration building,
and build a separate building to house the police department. He commented that
he would like to see the municipal center stay in the downtown area for
enhancement. Mr. Kudera stated that he feels the current administration
building would be better suited for offices, such as a dentist, doctor, etc.
that does not require a high volume of public traffic.
23.   Mrs. Cobble suggested using incentives to draw businesses to the downtown
area. Mr. Kudera stated that most businesses would request tax abatements,
which would take revenue away from the city, not add to it. Mayor Kriege stated
that the city originally had budgeted money for the Renaissance Program for the
downtown area, but had to withdraw the proposed funds, as there were other
pressing priorities that had to be met, specifically road repairs. Mr. Moriconi
stated that the good news for downtown is that the county is expanding their
offices, which will bring more people into the area. He also felt that when the
current city building is sold as office space that this would also keep the
downtown area vital.
24.   A member of the audience suggested applying for federal and state funds,
and soliciting private funds to revitalize the downtown area. Mrs. Cobble
commented that the emphasis should be on remaining in the downtown area to keep
it vibrant. Mr. Moriconi agreed that he would like to see the revitalization of
the downtown area, but stated that he is trying to look into the future of the
city. He stated that a municipal center should be functional for many years and
doesn’t feel the city offices moving down the street should hinder this, as a
business would occupy the building, keeping patrons in the area.
25.   Ms. Keeny commented that the administration building isn’t necessarily
the dependant factor that would keep the downtown alive; she stated that a
building couldn’t promise off shoots for future development. She stated that
working with preservation experts would provide more options. Mr. Kudera stated
that he and Mayor Kriege walked the downtown area looking for feasible sites
for a new municipal center and most possible sites were eliminated for one
reason or another.
26.   Mr. Perry Wing, 10734 Cypresswood Lane, shared his thoughts. He stated
that as things are evolving a lot of activity is currently being funneled in
the Towne Center area and that access to all with safety, as a basic concern
must be considered, no matter where the building is located. He stated there is
not a lot of flat land left in Memorial Park to develop, but he is in favor of
keeping the new building on Madison Pike and suggested downsizing some of the
building space. He commented that the Smith property will help with the
development of the building on the Madison Pike side of the park and suggested
phasing in the development over a 3-5-7 year plan. He stated that he sees the
city having many options and would like to see a plan initiated for the
renovation of the downtown area. He said that Independence is a small town with
big city dreams and believes the city is heading in the right direction.
27.   Mayor Kriege concluded by stating that council would need to review all
proposed sites and recommend the Memorial Park site off of Jack Woods Parkway
as the site he feels is best suited for development. He urged council to make a
decision that would take the city into the next 30-40 years. He stated the next
special meeting would be held on November 26, 2001 at the Kenton County
Extension Center on Marshall Road and asked council to be prepared to make some
decisions regarding this project so that the city can proceed. He stated that
if council had questions over the next couple of weeks to call him or Mr.
Wendling.
Adjournment
28.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Dupps the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:47 p.m.
______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 26, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the special meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. at the
Kenton County Extension Center. Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this
special meeting was to discuss the following agenda items:
§   Declare list of vehicles from the Police Department as Surplus Equipment
§   Resolution Approving the CBDG Payment for the Senior Center
§   Discussion and Possible Action Regarding Potential Municipal Center Sites
§   Discussion and Possible Action Regarding Proposed Building Schemes
§   Discussion & Possible Action Relating to Financing & Budget Options for a
Potential Municipal Center
§   Discussion and Possible Action Relating to a Design Proposal
§   Open the Floor to Citizen Feedback
§   Executive Session (if necessary)
2.   Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Jim Kudera and Chris
Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member, Ike Gabbard was absent. Also in
attendance was City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling and City Attorney, H.
Lawson Walker.
Declare List of Police Department Vehicles as Surplus Equipment
3.   Police Chief, Shawn Butler presented to council a list of three vehicles
that are no longer in service with the police department and requested they be
declared as surplus equipment so that the vehicles could be auctioned. He
stated that all three vehicles were 1994 Ford Crown Victorias having an excess
of 150,000 miles on each vehicle.
4.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to declare the three 1994 Ford Crown Victorias as
surplus equipment; the motion was seconded by Mr. Bushong. Roll call was
answered with five yes votes. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Resolution Approving the CBDG Monthly Payment for the Senior Center Expenses
5.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to read Resolution No. 2001-R-15 authorizing the
monthly CBDG payment for the Senior Center in the amount of $118,614.46. Mr.
Moriconi seconded the motion. Mr. Dupps asked where the current payment stands
on the schedule of payments. Mr. Wendling reported there has been an additional
change order regarding the ansul system in the kitchen which will amount to
approximately $6,000. He stated that the construction company will submit a
final payment request when the building is complete and a final certificate of
occupancy permit is issued. Mr. Bushong asked how the city would handle the
payment retainage. Mr. Wendling stated the retainage would be held until
everything is approved and all permits are issued. Mr. Walker read Resolution
No. 2001-R-15. Roll call was answered with five yes votes. Motion carried.
Discussion & Possible Action Regarding Potential Municipal Center Sites
6.   Mayor Kriege reported that he has worked with Matrix Architects to prepare
potential schemes for the expansion of the Route 17 Memorial Park site that
would include the Smith property at 5407 Madison Pike (at the corner of Peach
Drive) and the Masonic Lodge at 5403 Madison Pike as shown in the site
evaluation plans F-1 and F-2. He stated that since these sites were not
included in the original feasibility study contract, that Matrix has submitted
a project change notice in the amount of $1,750.00 for additional site
investigation and study of these two parcels of land. He requested council
approve this change notice for the feasibility study so that the city can
proceed with this project.
7.   Mr. Dupps asked if the existing building on the properties would be
demolished. Mr. Wendling stated the Smith house would be razed. Mayor Kriege
stated that if council wants to proceed with this site it would be necessary to
move forward with this parcel of land, as it appears the site would be feasible
for the building scheme. He stated that he felt the Masonic Lodge would also
need to be acquired. Mr. Ellison stated that he favors the F-1 scheme. He
stated that if the city pursues these parcels we should speak with a
representative of the Masonic Lodge to inquire interest in selling the
property. Mayor Kriege stated that parcel would be included in the additional
feasibility study and to proceed, council would need to approve the $1,750.00
feasibility change notice from Matrix.
8.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to proceed with the feasibility change notice to
approve the additional fee of $1,750.00 requested to Matrix Architects. Mr.
Moriconi seconded the motion. Mr. Bushong referred to the Site “F” evaluation
and asked if the future parking of sixteen spaces is the space currently
occupied by the mobile vehicle behind the Masonic Lodge. Mr. Kudera stated that
he believed it was. Mr. Moriconi asked if the split-level building design on
the F-1 site evaluation plan would accommodate another entrance. Mayor Kriege
advised this is a preliminary schematic and that details would be provided at a
later date when Matrix does an in depth study of the site. Mr. Kudera asked how
long it would take to complete the study of this additional site. Mr. Wendling
stated that he anticipated it would take two to three weeks. He stated that
Dugan & Meyers would provide the cost estimate, which would take some time to
determine. Roll call was answered with five yes votes. Motion carried
unanimously.
Discussion Regarding Proposed Building Schemes
9.   Mayor Kriege stated that the actual design of a building is a long way off
and addressed possible building schemes for consideration. He stated the staff
put forth a split level design as their recommended preference as it relates to
work flow and site position. Mayor Kriege stated the opportunity to solidify
office sizes, etc. would come at a later date. He asked council if there was a
consensus to look at other schemes for consideration during the design phase.
Mr. Dupps stated that he felt the office sizes presented in the preliminary
schemes were oversized, especially the council chambers. He stated that the
Senior Center could be utilized at times when more meeting space is needed. He
stated that a council chambers would be nice but felt that 250 seats was very
large and seemed redundant, since the Senior Center could accommodate large
crowds, when necessary. Mr. Kudera commented that the Building Committee would
consider the square footage cost estimates and decide if the reductions would
be necessary to reduce the overall cost of the building. Mayor Kriege commented
that during the design phase, the Building Committee could work through these
concerns. Mr. Moriconi voiced his concern about building the municipal center
to small to handle future growth. Mayor Kriege stated that Matrix Architects
met with city staff to determine office and other work area sizes taking future
growth into consideration.
Discussion Relating to Financing and Budget Options for a Proposed Municipal
Center
10.   Mr. Kudera reported that the Budget & Finance Committee met at 5:00 p.m.,
prior to this meeting. He stated the committee reviewed two critical issues.
Mr. Kudera commented that the present economy is good for the construction
industry and felt this would be a good time to assume this capital project. He
stated the other significant issue is to give Mayor Kriege the authority to
negotiate the necessary financing. Mr. Kudera recommended that council
authorize the mayor to secure a cap of $4.5-$5,000,000 in funds for this
project. He commented that that doesn’t mean the city will spend the entire
amount, but reminded council that funds will be needed to furnish the building
also. He recommended that a consensus be made to move forward with the project
and that council be prepared to act on this matter at the December 3, 2001
regular council meeting. Mayor Kriege commented that a plan would be difficult
to develop until the city secures the necessary financing for this project. Mr.
Kudera concurred and stated that the city needs to make a commitment to move
forward. He stated that there are options available to the city to generate
revenue and cited the option to increase the payroll tax and implement a road
tax, which would require a public referendum.
11.   Mayor Kriege advised he would try to bring good financing arrangements to
the December 3, 2001 council meeting along with the development of a good site
plan and schematics. Mr. Dupps commented that some financing options might not
be eligible until next August. Mayor Kriege stated it would be necessary to
address financing now in order to make the project work and start the process.
Mr. Dupps also was concerned that some financing may be eliminated. Mayor
Kriege advised that some revenues could be phased-in in proceeding fiscal years
and if referendums fail then other revenue options could be revisited. Mr.
Kudera advised the city has available revenues to proceed for some time, but
that currently, future revenues were not predictable. He felt that within six
months revenues would be more foreseeable. Mayor Kriege stated that Matrix
Architects has not provided the city with a full blown cost estimate, but hoped
to have it by the December 3, 2001 council meeting.
Citizen Feedback
12.   Joann Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, had several questions regarding the
Memorial Park Site #1 which included the number of acres that was to be used
for a city building and the size of the access road to the building and if
these structures would be calculated into the site plan. Mrs. Cobble also
questioned the acreage of some of the possible sites and why some sites were
eliminated and others were not considered. She expressed concern that some
property owners of proposed sites were not notified and implied that she may
have been willing to donate some of her land in order for the current city
building to expand at the current location. She also suggested that Rodney
“Biz” Cain might be receptive to donating the land he owns at Pelly Road and
Madison for a municipal center and asked if Mr. Cain had been approached about
donating this land.
13.   Mr. Wendling answered Mrs. Cobble’s concerns. He stated that the
schematics for a new building indicate the site would require approximately
three acres for a building and parking areas. He replied that an access road
would be a double lane road and that both the building and road would be
considered in the Memorial Park Plan. Mr. Wendling advised Mrs. Cobble that
specific sites were eliminated for various reasons, with size and/or cost to
purchase the land being the major factors.
14.   Mayor Kriege replied that Mr. Cain had not been contacted about donating
his land. Mayor Kriege and some of the council members pursued Mrs. Cobble
statement about donating some of her land to the city and pressed her for a
commitment of how much land she was willing to donate. She stated she would be
willing to give the city one acre. Mr. Kudera and Mayor Kriege stated that
would not be enough, as the city needs three acres of land. Mrs. Cobble
countered that her donation of one acre added to the 1.3 acres currently owned
by the city at that site would make for a 2.3-acre site. She stated that it was
unnecessary to construct a large parking area as she felt the city could use
the parking lot of Swindler & Currin Funeral Home and the Firstar Bank lot
adjacent to the city building. Mr. Kudera replied that it was unfair to
infringe upon private property owners neighboring the city building to provide
parking for city functions. He commented that he felt this was unacceptable.
Mrs. Cobble stated that she felt this could be mutually beneficial to both the
bank and funeral home. Mr. Kudera responded that Mr. Currin is currently in the
process of expanding his parking lot with the recent purchase of the land next
to the funeral home, as Mr. Currin doesn’t expect the city to provide parking
for his business.
15.   Mr. Kudera asked Mrs. Cobble what her objective is in this line of
questioning. Mrs. Cobble replied that she wanted to see the city building
remain in the downtown area of the city, which has indisputably been the heart
of town for the last 150 years. Mr. Kudera advised that that areas in the heart
of town are not large enough to be considered for this project. He went on to
say that the downtown area has shifted to the Towne Center. Mayor Kriege
interjected that he felt the downtown area was expanding and is now
encompassing a larger area of the Madison Pike corridor. Mrs. Cobble reiterated
that she feels the city hall should remain downtown and expressed concern that
two possible sites have not been fully investigated. She stated that half of
the downtown buildings were vacant or abandoned and with the city leaving the
area felt that this projects and image that the city officials don’t care. She
stated that if the two new buildings, specifically the Senior Center and the
new Firehouse would have been constructed in the downtown area it would have
been a $10M improvement to the area. Mr. Kudera stated that it was the city’s
responsibility to invest city funds the best way possible and the downtown area
is not the best way. Mayor Kriege shared Mrs. Cobble’s concerns and commented
that the downtown area is important to him and council, but advised Mrs. Cobble
that building in the downtown area is just not feasible. He stated that council
couldn’t solve the downtown problems and municipal building problems in one
step.
16.   Mr. Dupps asked Mr. Ellison how long the city building has been located
in the downtown area. Mr. Ellison replied the city offices have been in the
downtown area for the last 20+ years. Mr. Dupps asked Mrs. Cobble if the city
offices have been in this area for the last twenty years, how has this helped
the area remain vital. She replied that it has kept buildings from being
boarded up. Mr. Dupps stated that he was trying to understand her position and
asked how often she goes to the city building. She stated that was not a fair
question as she goes to the city building for other than business. Mr. Dupps
stated that he doesn’t see the need to locate the city building on the main
thoroughfare and many city buildings are not in the town area. Mrs. Cobble
countered that other cities do not have a prestigious courthouse in their city.
Mr. Dupps stated that most people only go to the courthouse once every four
years to renew their driver’s license. Mr. Moriconi commented that the city’s
vacating the current city building might be an incentive for another business
to occupy the space. He stated that it is not city government’s responsibility
to develop the downtown area, but felt it would take private enterprise to
vitalize the area. Mayor Kriege stated he would like to partner with the
business community in the task of revitalizing the downtown area. Mr. Moriconi
advised the city alone cannot save the downtown and felt it would take free
enterprise to do this.
17.   Mayor Kriege recapped the proposed building sites to include the
following: Memorial Park #1 (where the playground equipment is currently
located); Memorial Park #2 (facing Route 17) with the adjacent Smith property
at the corner of Peach Drive and Route 17; current city administration building
located at 5247 Madison Pike (at the corner of Carrie Way); Sterling Staggs
Park; the city’s Park & Ride lot located at 5292 Madison Pike; and Pelly Road/
Route 17 property. Mayor Kriege asked council if they would like more
information on the Memorial Park #2 and adjacent Smith property site. He
reiterated that the Sterling Staggs Park site would be eliminated at the land
was purchased with federal funds with a restriction that it was to be used as a
park. He stated this site would not have been proposed if he had been aware of
this restriction. Mr. Kudera stated that a deed restriction also exists for the
Independence Park in the Hartland Subdivision and if the city ever ceases using
the land as a park then the property would revert back to the donor, Arlinghaus
Builders, to use as residential building lots. Mayor Kriege stated his
preferred building site was Memorial Park #1.
18.   Mrs. Cobble asked who owns the existing Fire Stations #1 & #2. Mr. Kudera
replied that the Independence Fire District owns those buildings and advised
her that the city has no control or financial interest in the Fire District.
19.   Mrs. Linda Payne, 1832 Forest Run Drive, a resident and member of the
Independence Recreation Committee stated that it was a waste of tax dollars to
move the playground and shelter equipment from it’s current location in the
park to make way for a municipal center and showed a lack of planning at
Memorial Park. She stated that she felt the city needed a city planner to
address the growth concerns including the preservation of green space, which
she feels is being gobbled up. Mr. Kudera responded that the Independence
Tomorrow Committee had made recommendations regarding the growth issue to the
city council by way of a Strategic Plan, which was soundly rejected. He stated
that it might be possible to revive this committee. Mr. Ellison countered that
he felt the city has planned several capital improvements such as the Fowler
Creek Sewer Project, the Fire District’s new fire station and the restructuring
of Route 17. He stated the planning is there and that the city has too much
open land not to make plans for its development. Mr. Ellison stated the city
building should be near the new fire station even if the Masonic Lodge wants to
stay, as he does not favor taking the property by eminent domain. Regarding the
revitalization of the downtown area, Mr. Ellison stated that he did not want to
see the city disrupt the lives of the long-time residents in the poorer houses
along Madison Pike. He stated that most of those lots were designed too small
to even consider for today’s development. Mrs. Cobble interjected that she
feels the city is proposing an oversized city building, but agreed that she
would not want to see the city seize the resident’s property by eminent domain.
She felt the city should approach the property owners to see if they would be
willing to sell their land. She stated that she did not understand why
Independence needed to build a municipal center 26,000 square feet in size. Mr.
Ellison tried to explain the city needed to construct a building that would
accommodate growth for the next fifty years. He stated that other cities in
Northern Kentucky, more affluent communities, are landlocked and will not be
growing at the rate that Independence is and has been growing. Mr. Moriconi
concurred that other local cities are maxed out. Mr. Ellison stated that
Independence is geographically, the largest city in the state of Kentucky.
20.   Mrs. Cobble raised the issue of the city possibly raising the current
payroll tax rate. She stated she felt it was already higher than most other
cities in Northern Kentucky. Mr. Ellison and Mr. Kudera explained that
Independence does not have the industry the other cities have nor has
Independence imposed an insurance premium tax which most other cities have to
increase their revenue. Mrs. Cobble reminded council that some of them made
campaign promises not to raise taxes. Mr. Kudera stated that he would not make
a decision that he felt was necessary to make based on whether or not he would
be re-elected to this office.
Adjournment
21.   There being no further discussion, upon motion and second by Mr. Kudera
and Mr. Ellison the meeting was adjourned at 8:34 p.m. Motion carried with all
ayes.
________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
DECEMBER 3, 2001
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty from the Independence Christian Church
gave the invocation. Council Members, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike
Gabbard, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance
was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker.
Approval of the Minutes of the November 5, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the November 5, 2001
council meeting as amended. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call answered
with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the November8, 2001 Special Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to approve the minutes of the special council
meeting of November 8, 2001 as amended. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
4.   Mrs. Sandy Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane, addressed council about her previous
requests that the city provide street maintenance to Justice Lane. She
recounted her request and subsequent approval by council in December 1987 to
take over the maintenance of the street. She stated that since that time, on a
few occasions, at her request, the city filled some of the potholes with
gravel. She stated that she has also taken it upon herself to fill the potholes
with gravel on a few occasions. Mrs. Woolum reported that Mr. Smith of the
Independence Public Works Department recently informed her that he has been
advised not to treat the street as it is owned by Mr. Bobby Scherder. She
stated that she has appeared before council for the last couple of months
requesting a decision be made as to whether or not the city is going to honor
the ordinance passed in 1987 approving Justice Lane as a city maintained
street. She also reminded council that a state law exists that proclaims a road
can be dedicated informally when it has been open to public use for more than
five years thereby causing it to be presumed as a public right of way. She
stated that she feels the city has had ample time to review this matter and
would like the city council to uphold the city ordinance and K.R.S. regarding
public right of ways and resume maintenance of Justice Lane.
5.   Mr. Ellison, chairman of the Planning & Zoning Committee, reported that
the committee reviewed and discussed the matter with the city attorney and
determined the matter to be a neighborhood dispute and don’t agree with Mrs.
Woolum that Justice Lane is a public right of way. He stated this road and/or
right of way has never been measured for accuracy, nor does the city ordinance
establish the meets and bounds necessary to adopt the street for maintenance.
Mr. Ellison stated the committee believes that Justice Lane is a private
street. Mrs. Woolum replied that she believes the state statute should be
upheld by the city. She stated that she has never discussed this matter with
Mr. Scherder and that it is not a dispute between neighbors. Mr. Ellison stated
that Mr. Scherder staunchly objects to the city’s maintenance of his road. Mrs.
Woolum stated that she had hoped the city would thoroughly research the
Kentucky Revised Statute regarding public right of ways and come to the
realization that Justice Lane is not a private road so that the maintenance of
this street would be resumed. Mr. Ellison expressed concern that a decision
either way, for or against providing maintenance for the street, could possibly
result in legal action taken against the city. She asserted that she wanted for
her records, and has received, a final response from the city regarding their
position in this matter. Mayor Kriege advised the matter was discussed at the
last council meeting and the majority of council concurred that Justice Lane is
a private street.
6.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to not provide street maintenance to Justice
Lane; seconded by Mr. Kudera. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and
two no votes cast by Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Bushong. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
Blood Drive Update – Chairman, Ike Gabbard
7.   Mr. Gabbard announced that the Hoxworth mobile unit would come to
Independence on Saturday, December 22, 2001. To date he has not received a
confirmed time but should know in a couple of days. He stated he will ask the
Kenton County Recorder to publish this event and hopes to have a large group of
donors sign up.
Ordinance No. 2001-O-17 – Creating the Position of Emergency Operations
Director
8.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Ed Burk, Kenton County Emergency Operations
Director. Mayor Kriege informed council that Mr. Burk was here to answer any
questions council might have regarding the duties of this position. Mr. Gabbard
expressed concern of a possible conflict with the other cities that Mr. Burk
represents. Mr. Burk responded that a dovetail effect would take hold and that
if a situation was beyond his control and resources he would go directly to the
county to request assistance from the state. Mr. Gabbard asked Mr. Burk for
confirmation that no salary would be provided to him by the city of
Independence. Mr. Burk stated that his salary was paid by Kenton County and the
city would not be charged for his services.
9.   Mr. Bushong questioned how this lack of compensation would be reflected in
the city’s personnel pay schedule. Mr. Walker stated that it is required to be
set by law even if the compensation is $0.00. Mayor Kriege stated that the pay
and classification ordinance would need to be amended to add this position. Mr.
Walker advised that it would be best to state no compensation, as the position
can’t be created without mentioning salary, even if it is zero. He stated it
should be established as zero and follows the normal process as any new
position.
10.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to have a second reading in summary of
Ordinance No. 2001-O-17 creating the position of Emergency Operations Director.
Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Walker read
the proposed ordinance in summary.
11.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Kudera, Ordinance No. 2001-
O-17 was adopted. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in
favor.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-12 Appointing Ed Burk as the Emergency Operations
Director
12.   Mayor Kriege proposed that Ed Burk be appointed to the position of
Emergency Operations Director for the City of Independence with the provision
that the salary be established as zero. Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by
Mr. Ellison there was a reading of Executive Order No. 2001-EO-12. Roll call
was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard citing the
appointment should be made by municipal order not an executive order. Mayor
Kriege read the Executive Order.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-09 Appointing Jim Bushong to the Ohio Kentucky
Indiana Regional Board
13.   Mayor Kriege stated that Jim Bushong has agreed to represent the city on
the OKI Board. Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Kudera Mayor Kriege
read Executive Order 2001-EO-09. Roll call to adopt the Executive Order was
answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard citing the
appointment should be made by municipal order not an executive order.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-10 Appointing Maura Snyder to the KC&MP&Z
Commission
14.   Mayor Kriege requested council support his recommended appointment of
Maura Snyder to represent the city on the Kenton County & Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission. Mr. Gabbard stated he was not familiar with Ms. Snyder and
asked Mayor Kriege about her. Mayor Kriege stated that Mrs. Snyder has resided
in the Liberty Orchard subdivision for the last four years and was a member of
the Citizen’s Police Academy. Mr. Gabbard asked if she had experience in zoning
and building matters. Mayor Kriege responded that he had spoken with Tim
Theissen, Chairman of the KC&MP&Z Commission who indicated that zoning/building
experience is not necessary to fill this position. He stated that Mr. Theissen
stated that the city’s representative should be able to work well with others
and that the experience will come in time.
15.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to read Executive Order No. 2001-EO-10
appointing Maura Snyder to the KC&MP&Z Commission; seconded by Mr. Kudera. Roll
call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard
citing the appointment should be made by municipal order not an executive
order.
Executive Order No. 2001-EO-11 Appointing Richard Noah to the
Telecommunications Board of No. Ky.
16.   Mayor Kriege requested that council support his recommendation to appoint
Richard Noah to represent the city on the Telecommunications Board of Northern
Kentucky. Mr. Gabbard stated he did not know Mr. Noah. Mayor Kriege stated that
Mr. Noah lives in the Forest Run Subdivision and works for Fidelity
Investments. He stated that Mr. Noah volunteered his services and has been
instrumental in the re-design of the city’s website and that he is a member of
the Citizen’s Police Academy.
17.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to read Executive Order No. 2001-EO-11
appointing Richard Noah to the Telecommunications Board; seconded by Mr. Dupps.
Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard
citing the appointment should be made by municipal order not an executive
order. The appointment was approved by a vote of 5-1 in favor.
Resolution No. 2001-R-16 – Authorizing the Mayor to Contract with Fire District
to Lease Cox Road Firehouse
18.   Mayor Kriege presented a resolution that would authorize him to enter the
city into a lease agreement with the Independence Fire District for rental of
the Cox Road Substation for storage facility purposes. Mr. Wendling explained
that the city had lost the lease with Kenton County for the old firehouse on
Madison Pike as the county has made plans to move their Parks and Recreation
Department into the space. He stated that the Cox Road substation is a much
larger space that would be more than adequate to house the storage of records
and equipment for all city departments. He stated that larger police and public
works equipment would be protected from outdoor weather. He stated that during
the winter months the Public Works Department would be able to keep the salt in
the truck beds overnight if necessary and the facility would also provide a
place to hose down the trucks. Mr. Dupps asked if this facility would remain a
voting poll location when the city takes occupancy. Mr. Wendling stated that it
would remain a voting poll location. Mr. Bushong cautioned that the value of
others in this building would not be covered under the city’s insurance policy
and advised the city should have the Fire District list their equipment that
will remain there so they get it insured under their policy.
19.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to read Resolution No. 2001-R-16 authorizing
Mayor Kriege to enter into a contract with the Fire District for the lease of
the Cox Road Substation building. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion carried
with five ayes and one abstain from Mr. Kudera. Mr. Walker read Resolution No.
2001-R-16.
20.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2001-R-16; seconded
by Mr. Moriconi. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one abstain
vote cast by Mr. Kudera. Motion passed 5-1 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Empowering the Chief of Police in the Placement of Traffic
Signs – 1st Reading
21.   Mayor Kriege advised council that a proposed ordinance is being presented
for their consideration and asked Chief Butler to explain. Chief Butler
provided the details on how this proposed ordinance came about. He stated that
he felt this would permit his department to determine the best placement of
traffic signs throughout the city to ensure effective and safe control of
traffic.
22.   Mr. Ellison agreed this is a problem but questioned whether council could
delegate this power to the police department as the K.R.S. states this is a
legislative function of council. Mr. Walker agreed there is an issue here and
that the Supreme Court could question this. He stated it was felt this task was
more administrative. Mayor Kriege stated that this ordinance would still
provide for legislative review.
23.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Dupps there was a first
reading, in summary, of the proposed ordinance to empower the Chief of Police
in the placement of traffic signs. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
City Administrator Report – Mark T. Wendling
24.   Mr. Wendling introduced Ms. Janet Rebman, who has replaced Amy Guenther
as the city’s new Finance Director and has been with the city for three weeks.
He stated that Ms. Rebman is a Certified Public Accountant who has experience
with non-profit agencies. Mayor Kriege welcomed Ms. Rebman.
25.   Mr. Wendling reported that the street overlays are complete with the
exception of the upper portion of Roselawn. He has been advised by Pete Michels
that the project will be completed sometime this week.
26.   Mr. Wendling stated the Fifth Annual Christmas Walk & Tour would be on
Wednesday, December 5, 2001 from 6:00 until 9:00 p.m. Mrs. Nita Brake,
Recreation Director, reported that Mayor Kriege would light the Christmas tree
at 6:00 p.m. at the Independence Christian Church. She stated this year’s event
would have performances by various school and church choirs throughout town.
There will be free photos taken with Santa at the chiropractor’s office and
horse drawn carriage rides will be available. She encouraged everyone to attend
and stated thirteen locations will be open to the public and will serve
refreshments.
27.   Mr. Bushong asked Mrs. Brake for a status report on the Marion Schadler
Park in the Lakefield Subdivision. He wondered if the Drees Company had
complied with the conditions imposed by the city before taking over for
maintenance. Mr. Wendling stated that Jeff Smith, Public Works Department, has
inspected the park and it appears that the improvements are not complete on the
drainage situation. Mr. Smith stated that the handrail for the stairs has not
been installed nor has the undercut and erosion problem been corrected. Mr.
Bushong suggested that a written list of necessary corrections be sent to
Drees. Mrs. Brake stated that the city engineer has provided a written list of
corrections to Drees, but that only a couple of items have been fixed. She
stated that she would not recommend taking over maintenance of the park until
all conditions are met. Mayor Kriege stated that this land is still owned by
Drees and assured council that the transfer of this property to the city would
be delayed until the problematic conditions are rectified.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
28.   Mr. Kudera stated the committee met on November 17, 2001 and reviewed
preliminary plans for a municipal center to house police and administration
offices. He stated that the consensus of the committee was to recommend that
council authorize Mayor Kriege to investigate financing packages to negotiate
and obtain a loan, not to exceed $5,000,000. He stated that the first step
would be to move forward in order to put it in the budget process. Mr. Kudera
stated the interest rates are very low through the Kentucky League of Cities
bond pool. He stated the committee could review the financing packages
available and bring a recommendation to council at the January 7, 2002 regular
meeting.
29.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to investigate
financing packages for the construction of a municipal center; seconded by Mr.
Bushong. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr.
Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Building Committee
30.   Chairman Mr. Moriconi reported that the committee did not meet in
November. He stated he would like to move forward with the acquisition of the
Taylor Smith property, which adjoins Memorial Park, and made a motion to
authorize Mr. Wendling to negotiate the purchase of this land with Mr. Smith.
Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Mr. Wendling reported that Matrix Architects
had done a basic preliminary schematic of the Smith site. Mayor Kriege stated
Matrix could reduce a portion of the council chambers and foyer, which would be
a savings of $300,000. Mr. Bushong asked if the city could purchase the Lodge
next to Mr. Smith’s property. Mr. Moriconi stated this could be an issue later
on. Mr. Gabbard advised he had called a Lodge member and was told that a
proposal to purchase their land would have to be discussed with the Board of
Trustees. Mayor Kriege stated he has not approached the Lodge members yet for
possible acquisition of their property, but plans to do so. Roll call on the
motion/second to authorize Mr. Wendling to negotiate the purchase of the Smith
property was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard.
Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Personnel & Administration Committee
31.   Chairman Mr. Bushong stated this committee did not meet in November and
is scheduled to meet in January 2002.
Planning & Zoning Committee
32.   Chairman Mr. Ellison stated that he noticed on the Building Inspector’s
October report of building fees collected for property located at 11132 Madison
Pike, which he thinks, is not located within the city limits and is owned by a
Kenton County agency. He stated that he feels the city should waive fees for
another taxing agency. Mr. Ellison made a motion to return the $25.00 building
fee to Kenton County; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
33.   Mr. Ellison requested that the Zoning Administrator contact Cliff’s Video
in the Beechgrove area and order the pole type sign and portable sign be
removed as this is a zoning violation.
34.   Mr. Ellison reported that the Planning & Zoning Committee met on November
29, 2001 to discuss four issues. He stated the committee is reviewing the flag
lot ordinance, which bans this type of lot and the restrictive effect it is
having on owners of large land plots. He stated the committee is working with
NKAPC staff members to amend the ordinance that would add new set back lines
and other criteria.
35.   Mr. Ellison stated the committee also discussed with Mr. Walker, City
Attorney, the Justice Lane right of way matter. He stated the committee feels
the city is in a ‘catch 22’ situation wherein the city could be in a lawsuit no
matter which way they decide. He stated the committee recommends the city do
nothing at this time and let the existing ordinance stand as is.
36.   Mr. Ellison reported the committee also discussed adding “car lots” to
NSC zones. He stated the city has received a request to put a car lot at the
corner south of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road. He stated the committee
recommends against this zone change. They also felt that putting a car lot in
this area would hamper development of the Cherokee Shopping Center.
37.   Mr. Ellison stated that the fourth matter discussed by the committee was
a request by the Deters Company to add a quick oil change facility to an NSC
zone at the Independence Towne Center. He stated the committee reviewed the
zoning ordinance and decided that section C, paragraph 2 could be amended to
add minor auto repair, etc. He stated that Mr. Wendling has volunteered to work
on this text amendment and the proposed changes will be presented to council
for review before submitting to the NKAPC for approval. Zoning Administrator,
Mr. McAllister stated that it is the interpretation of the NKAPC staff that it
falls within the current definition of a conditional use permit. Mr. McAllister
advised that the Board of Adjustments will be hearing this case from the Deters
Company at the December 16, 2001 board meeting.
Public Safety Committee
38.   Chairman Mr. Dupps reported the committee reviewed the matter of the
Police Chief being authorized to place the traffic signs within the city, of
which there was a first reading of the ordinance earlier in this meeting.
39.   Mr. Dupps stated the next meeting of this committee is on December 18,
2001 at 5:30 p.m.
40.   Mayor Kriege asked Chief Butler if the city has been awarded the grant
for a Resource Officer. Chief Butler reported the city was shut out of the
first round for the grant. Mr. Gabbard advised he has spoken to Representative
Bunning who advised Independence would be in contention for the second round of
grants awarded. He stated that letters of support for this grant have been
sent.
41.   Mr. Kudera asked Chief Butler what the status was of the city employees
that were called up for active military duty. Chief Butler stated that Officer
Hill has returned home but is on standby for a twenty-four recall. Officer Hill
is presently taking some vacation time due to the birth of his son, and then he
will return to the police department. Chief Butler also advised that Officer
Hallau has returned home as well, but is also subject to recall by the
military.
Public Works Committee
42.   Chairman Mr. Gabbard stated the committee is scheduled to meet in January
2002.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
43.   Mayor Kriege encouraged everyone to attend this year’s Annual Christmas
Walk & Tour this Wednesday, December 5th from 6 until 9 p.m.
44.   Mayor Kriege advised that the progress on the Senior Center is nearing
completion. He stated the city has requested a Certificate of Occupancy for the
Holiday Dinner to be held there on Friday, December 7th.
ADJOURNMENT
45.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Kudera the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:02 p.m.
________________________________________
                     Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
                     City of Independence, Kentucky
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2002 Minutes
JANUARY 7, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant from the Grace Community Church gave the
invocation. Council Members, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard,
Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance was City
Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the November 26, 2001 Special Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the minutes of the November 26, 2001
special council meeting as amended. Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call
answered with five yes votes and one abstain from Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried
5-1 in favor.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 3, 2001 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of December 3, 2001 as submitted. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Discussion Regarding the Financing/KLC Pooled Lease Program for a Proposed
Municipal Center
4.   Mayor Kriege introduced William Skees, attorney with Frost Brown Todd LLC,
and acting as bond attorney for the city. Mayor Kriege stated that Mr. Skees
was present to explain the proper financing of, answer any questions the
council members have regarding the Kentucky League of Cities Pooled Lease
Program, the 1989 Series, City of Danville Poole.
5.   Mr. Skees explained that as bond attorney, his role would be to ensure
that the bond is validly issued, not to advocate for or against securing the
bond. He advised that the Resolution presented would authorize the
participation in the Kentucky Municipal League Pooled Lease Finance Program,
Series 1989, for up to $5M for the construction of a proposed municipal center.
He stated that the way a bond works is that the city will deed the property to
the lien, and then lease it back for financing of the bonds. Mr. Skees stated
that the bond will be similar to the bonding of the Senior Center is that it
will be a variable rate debt. He stated the interest rate will vary and be set
on an annual basis and that the current rate today is 4.160%. He stated the
Senior Center rate was 4.9% and the city is currently at an advantage as the
rate has decreased significantly. Mr. Skees advised that PNC Bank would assess
fees to administer this program.
6.   Mr. Gabbard asked what the amount of interest would be over the seventeen-
year life of the bond. Mr. Skees stated this information is detailed in the
financial handout documents provided and stated the project assumption would
yield $1,971,000 in interest costs. Mr. Moriconi asked if there was a cap on
the interest rate over the life of the bond. Mr. Skees stated that if the
interest rate begins to creep up then council could choose to pay off the bond
without incurring prepayment penalties.
7.   Mr. Kudera reported that the Budget and Finance Committee reviewed the
pooled bond program and has agreed there is no better time than now to consider
a good finance package for this project. He stated that the bond would have a
$5M limit and suggested council approve this bond package with this limit, as
this is an excellent deal for the city. He stated that the Danville Bond Pool
which these funds will be derived from is nearing its’ end and other available
pools will be at a higher interest rate. He advised that the reason the
Danville Pool is cheaper is that the cost of issuance of the bonds have been
paid off. Mr. Bushong requested that the documents include wordage that would
limit the interest rate to 4.4% with council approval necessary to extend over
that maximum rate. Mr. Skees and Mr. Walker agreed that a section could be
added to the Resolution to stipulate that requirement. Mr. Ellison inquired if
there would be a maximum cap on points over the seventeen-year life of the
bond. Mr. Skees advised that the bank fees would be a constant and that the
interest rate will vary with the market but the city’s remedy to that will be
to refinance.
Resolution No. 2002-R-01 Authorizing Participation in the KLC Pooled Lease
Finance Program
8.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to read Resolution No. 2002-R-01 authorizing the
participation in the Kentucky Municipal League Pooled Lease Finance Program,
Series 1989, to include a section that would limit the interest rate to 4.4%.
Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Mr. Gabbard asked how the city would repay
this debt, as the funds were not in the budget. Mayor Kriege responded that the
Finance Committee has reviewed several funding options. Mr. Kudera stated that
there are some options available to increase revenues to fund this project and
advised that discussions have centered on increasing the payroll tax rate,
implementing a property tax rate of compensating plus four percent with an
additional two percent over that, and putting a referendum on the general
election ballot to implement an ad valorem property tax to be used for the
maintenance of roads. He stated the committee would begin to look at the
reserve funds and begin the process necessary to generate the needed revenue.
Mr. Kudera stated that he felt comfortable that the city could begin the
project without the necessary tax increases for a year or two. Mr. Gabbard
expressed concern that the council would bind future administrations to funding
this project. He stated that he felt the city should focus on and could afford
to construct a building for the Police Department and that the administration
department could exist in the current space for the next few years. He stated
that he felt a facility could be constructed for the police department for
about $1M.
9.   Mr. Gabbard reminded council that five members made campaign promises that
they would not raise taxes. Mr. Kudera stated that it is time to move forward
and advised Mr. Gabbard that the property tax rate has decreased every year for
the last several years. He disagreed that the city should focus only on a
facility for the police, thereby starting the process all over again in the
next few years when the administration department outgrows their current
facility. Mr. Gabbard stated that he felt it was important to keep one’s word
and that he will support a facility for only the police department.
10.   Mayor Kriege stated that the Finance Committee is not interested in
increasing taxes without voter input and would like to begin by placing the
referendum for a ad valorem (road) tax on the November ballot. He stated that
if the voters do not support this tax then the city would move forward with the
next plan to generate revenue by looking at the property tax or payroll tax.
Mr. Gabbard stated that he is not willing to bind the next administration to
funding this capitol project.
11.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi, Mr. Walker read
Resolution No. 2002-R-01 in title only. Roll call was answered with five yes
votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard citing that the city does not have
the revenue in hand to pay for the proposed building. Motion carried 5-1 in
favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
12.   Mr. Chuck Berling addressed council with a proposed Stage II development
plan for a section of the Villages of Beechgrove. He requested approval of a
zone change in order to change the Stage II plan from condos to single-family
construction. He stated the original plan called for 106 condos and he would
like to build 42 single-family homes instead. Mr. Moriconi wondered if this
request should be taken to the Beechgrove Homeowners Association. Mr. Berling
stated this approval would have to come from the city. Mr. Gabbard asked if
these houses would be starter homes and asked what the size of the lots would
be. Mr. Berling stated the lot size would vary but average out at fifty-foot
lots. He advised that the houses would cost between $110,000 and $130,000. Mr.
Moriconi asked if the houses would require a brick front. Mr. Berling stated
there would be alternate front elevations, but that materials were not
specified. Mr. Bushong asked if sewer and water lines were available for this
development. Mr. Berling stated that sewer lines were available along Bristow
Road, which they would tie into, and that new water mains are available that
they will access. He stated that the Planning Commission has reviewed the
preliminary plans and if council supports this zone change, it will go before
them for approval. Mr. Bushong stated that the Beechgrove Homeowners
Association is not aware of this proposed development. He asked Mr. Berling the
number of streets that will be constructed for this development. Mr. Berling
stated there would be one main road with two cul-de-sac streets and they will
be constructed to Kenton County specifications.
13.   Mr. Ellison stated that Mr. Berling has presented this proposed
development plan to the Planning & Zoning Committee and they are recommending
approval. He stated that he feels this plan reduces the number of living units
from 106 to 42 and that Mr. Berling will build a quality development. He stated
that changing this from multi-units to single family units was a fair trade
off.
14.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve the Stage II development plans
proposed by Mr. Berling for the specified section of the Villages of Beechgrove
permitting single family homes in place of the original plan to build 106 condo
units. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with all ayes.
Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
15.   Mitchell Wade, Willow Drive, addressed council regarding his longstanding
grievance regarding the swampy area of his yard that he asserts is the
aftermath of the sewer pipe construction several years ago. He stated that he
feels the city should support the residents and not the contractors employed to
perform this job. He reported that when a supervisor from the Sanitation
District recently inspected this swampy area of his property that he was told
that someone would do something to remedy the situation. He stated that now the
Sanitation District wouldn’t do anything to correct this problem. He requested
that the city provide to him in writing a letter stating the city was not
responsible for the drainage problem on his property.
16.   In an unrelated matter, Mr. Wade questioned the city’s law and
enforcement of roadside signs. He stated that his son owns an auto detail shop
and had placed a sign along the roadway advertising a special sale and was told
by the city that he had to remove the sign or he would be cited. Mr. Wade
expressed concern that his son was being singled out as he feels there are many
signs placed in the right of way throughout the city that have gone unchecked.
Mr. Wendling stated that about a month ago the Zoning Administrator, along with
the Public Works employees, did a sweep of the signs that were illegally placed
in the right of ways throughout the city. He stated that the enforcement of
this zoning violation was not biased. Father Berschied, Pastor of St. Cecilia
Church, commented that the church has recently had their signs pulled also.
17.   Mr. Wade’s last concern presented to council was in regard to the city’s
recent denial of a text amendment change that his brother has requested for the
property located at 6429 Taylor Mill Road (at the corner of Cox Road). He
stated his brother has requested the property be permitted to be used as a used
car lot and was told the city was not interested in this type of development.
He stated that the property was originally a gas station and did not understand
why a car lot business did not conform to this property. Mr. Gabbard commented
that the Planning & Zoning Committee met with Lance Wade and told him he did
not know how council would feel about this type of business in that location.
Mr. Wendling stated that the committee had expressed that they were not
interested in changing a NSC (Neighborhood Shopping Center) to include used car
lots. Mr. Ellison added that the committee felt it was difficult to control the
type of cars that would be for sale. Again, Mr. Wade requested the city put
their decision in the form of a formal letter. Mr. Wendling suggested that Mr.
Wade could expend the $150.00 fee and make application to the Kenton County and
Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission for a text amendment for this property,
then if approved it would formally come before city council for consideration.
Mayor Kriege stated that Mr. Ellison provided Mr. Wade with the reason the city
would not be favorable for this type of business in that location. He went on
to explain to Mr. Wade that when a text amendment is made it affects all like
properties, not just the property that requested the amendment. Mr. Wade stated
that he feels the text regarding this zone is evasive and has considerable
omissions, as it does not make sense to him that a gas station for cars is
permitted, but a used car lot is not permitted.
18.   Barbara Gabbard, 5140 Madison Pike, addressed council regarding her
concern that the city is taking on more debt than the citizens can handle with
the recent obligations of the new Senior Center and now the proposed Municipal
Center. She stated that she feared the taxpayers would be left to pick up the
bill with increased taxes to pay for these expenses. She encouraged the
citizens to express their feelings about the proposed budget deficit. She
stated that the Senior Center was larger and more costly than anticipated and
encouraged council to act responsibly and lookout for the city’s best interests
before proceeding with a municipal center. She stated that the citizens could
only pay so much in taxes as they have other expenses of growing families. She
stated that the city should be operated similar to a business. Mrs. Gabbard
stated there is no question that the city needs a police facility to fulfill
their special needs but questioned going into debt to build a municipal center.
She expressed concern that the city is proposing the hiring of a Senior Center
Director as a city employee and cited that the position does not even exist in
the Personnel Policy and wondered how the city was going to manage to pay for
this additional personnel and the expense of operating the Senior Center. In
closing, she commented that she felt the city was putting the cart before the
horse.
19.   Mayor Kriege responded that the Senior Center Board of Directors
encountered some stumbling blocks with the hiring of a Senior Director. He
stated that the final candidates for the position did not feel the Board of
Directors could provide job security, which made it difficult to fill the
position. Mayor Kriege stated that the city is working on the assumption that
the Board of Directors will provide the salary for the Director by way of
grants, etc. Mr. Kudera commented that while the city should not spend money
they don’t have, he felt the city should provide services to the seniors as
well as other residents.
Blood Drive Report – Ike Gabbard, Chairman
20.   Mr. Gabbard read a letter he had received from Molly Hanrahan of the
Hoxworth Blood Center who reported that of the thirty-nine volunteers they were
able to collect thirty-three units of blood. He stated that Ms. Hanrahan
reported this was one of the best turnouts in Independence. He thanked the
Police Department and all the volunteers for supporting this cause. Mr. Kudera
thanked Mr. Gabbard for his efforts.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-01 – Empowering Chief of Police in Placement of Traffic
Signs – 2nd Reading
21.   Mayor Kriege presented Ordinance No. 2002-O-01 for a second reading. City
Attorney Lawson Walker read the ordinance in summary. Councilmember Ellison
moved, with second from Councilmember Bushong that Ordinance No. 2002-O-01 be
approved on second and final reading. Role was called and council approved by
unanimous vote.
Resolution No. 2002-R-02 – A Resolution Approving the Preapplication to the
Department of Local Government for Assistance under the Land and Water
Conservation Fund Act of 1965
22.   Mayor Kriege presented a resolution that would approve the preapplication
to the Department of Local Government for assistance under the Land and Water
Conservation Fund. He stated this grant would assist in the funding of a water
line to Independence Park in the Hartland Subdivision. Upon motion by Mr.
Ellison and second by Mr. Moriconi, Mr. Walker read the Resolution. Mr. Gabbard
asked what line item in the budget would fund the fifty percent of the proposed
project cost of $8,500. Mayor Kriege replied that the expense would be budgeted
in the 2002/03 Park budget. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0 in favor.
Award Bid for Sidewalk Construction from Hartland Subdivision to Walnut Hall
Drive
23.   City Engineer, Dave Whitacre presented a tabulation sheet and reported
that five bids were received by the city for this project. He stated that the
lowest bidder was RU-NIC who did not provide an adequate bid bond, but instead
provided a company check for only 7.85% of their bid, $39,906.75, which is less
than the 10% required. Therefore, Mr. Whitacre recommended that RU-NIC’s bid be
rejected. Mr. Whitacre stated that the second lowest bid was from Ray Prus &
Son, Inc. He stated he is familiar with this company, that they are well
qualified and recommended that council award the bid to Ray Prus as the lowest
and best bid. Mr. Gabbard asked if this company has constructed a lot of
sidewalks. Mr. Whitacre stated that this company does not bid a lot of
sidewalks, but stated that it is rare that they are a low bidder. He stated
that they are a large contractor and recently performed a good job for the City
of Fort Thomas. Mr. Gabbard asked if the bids came in lower than anticipated.
Mr. Wendling stated this project had been budgeted higher than the low bids
received. Mr. Whitacre stated that upon acceptance by council they would draw
up a contract with the bidder that would indicate a start date for the project.
24.   Councilmember Moriconi moved to award the sidewalk construction bid to
Ray Prus & Son, Inc. as the best and lowest bid in the amount of $44,827.00,
seconded by Councilmember Dupps. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Placing an Ad Valorem (Road) Tax on the November General
Election Ballot
25.   Mayor Kriege presented a proposed ordinance for council’s consideration
that would levy a special ad valorem tax on all taxable property within the
city in order to provide funding for the maintenance and repairs of public
streets. He stated the proposed tax would be placed on the November General
Election ballot for approval by the voters. Mr. Gabbard asked if enactment of
this ordinance would be contingent on the approval of the voters. City
Attorney, Mr. Walker advised that Section 65 of the K.R.S. provides for the
city to authorize commencement to propose this tax by ordinance then placed on
the ballot for passage in the general election. He stated that this ordinance
is nothing until it is passed in November. A suggestion was made to add a
section to the ordinance that would clarify the ordinance would be enacted upon
voter approval in the general election in November. Mr. Kudera stated the
Budget and Finance Committee suggested a rate of .06¢ per $100.00 of assessed
value for this tax.
26.   Councilmember Kudera moved, with second from Councilmember Gabbard, that
the proposed ordinance receive a first reading. Mr. Moriconi asked for
clarification that he is not voting to raise taxes, but agreeing to send this
proposed tax to the general election in November for endorsement by the voters.
Mr. Gabbard confirmed Mr. Moriconi’s analysis and suggested the need for
council to promote this ad valorem tax to the voters. Motion carried with all
ayes and Mr. Walker gave a first reading of the proposed ordinance that
included language stating the tax referendum would be placed on the November
ballot.
Discussion/Authorizing Mayor to Enter into a Contract with Cole+Russell
Architects, Inc. for Municipal Building
27.   Mayor Kriege presented to council a standard AIA Agreement to contract
with Cole+Russell Architects for the design of a new Municipal Building. He
introduced David Acomb and John Russell, who were present from the architect
firm to answer any questions council might have regarding the contract. Mayor
Kriege reported that the Building Committee and city staff selected
Cole+Russell unanimously from three architect firms that were interviewed for
this project.
28.   Mr. Gabbard directed his question regarding Section 10.1 on page 13 of
the agreement for services. He stated this section regarded direct personnel
expenses and asked for an explanation of why the city would be obligated to pay
benefits for the architect’s personnel. Mr. Russell stated that this section
could be removed as the fee charged to the city is calculated and does not rely
directly on personnel expenses. Mr. Kudera advised that he understood that the
fee would start at 8% (of the estimated construction cost) as the basis, then
go to a fixed cost from there. Mr. Russell concurred, and further explained,
that in order to be fair, their fee is calculated based on the estimated scope
of the project, then they estimate that at the fixed fee then work from there.
29.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into a
contract with Cole+Russell Architects for the design of a new Municipal Center,
seconded by Mr. Kudera. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no
vote cast by Mr. Gabbard, who cited he did not feel the city had sufficient
funds available to move forward with this project.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
30.   Mr. Wendling referred council to an inventory list of used sewer badger
meters and flow monitors, equipment the city is no longer utilizing, and a
letter from the City of Walton offering to purchase this equipment for $500.00.
Mr. Wendling asked the city engineer, Mr. Whitacre to expound on this
equipment. Mr. Whitacre stated the equipment is currently being stored at his
office. He said it was used from 1996 through 1999 and was originally purchased
to monitor the sewage flow as required by the Kentucky Division of Water. He
stated the city is no longer required to perform this monitoring and the
Sanitation District has indicated they are not interested in obtaining these
meters. Mr. Whitacre stated he was aware that the City of Walton occasionally
performs testing of their sewer system to identify and locate inflow and
infiltration problems and the equipment could be of benefit to them. He stated
that no other cities in Boone, Kenton or Campbell County have a need to perform
any sewer monitoring.
31.   Mr. Kudera moved to declare the five flow monitors, one 15-inch band, one
12-inch band, four 8-inch bands and one connector cable as surplus property.
Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
32.   Councilmember Bushong moved, with second from Councilmember Gabbard to
authorize Mayor Kriege to sell the surplus sewer monitoring equipment to the
City of Walton for $500.00. Mr. Ellison asked that we stipulate the sale to
allow Independence to borrow or rent the equipment from Walton if the need
would ever arise. Roll was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0
33.   Ms. Rita King, 6523 Sugar Camp Road, asked Mr. Wendling if the Memorial
Park Survey was complete. Mr. Wendling stated the survey was not completed yet
due to the additional evaluation of adjoining property.
34.   Mr. Wendling reported the Public Works Department has been working hard
during the recent snows to keep the roads clear and passable.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
35.   Chairman, Mr. Kudera reported the committee has reviewed finance packages
for the municipal building project, as well as revenue enhancement options. He
expressed appreciation to council for the support shown in the endorsement of
the capital venture.
Building & Recreation Committee
36.   Mr. Moriconi reported the committee met on December 18th and reviewed
capital projects. He advised the final inspection of the Senior Center would
take place on December 21, 2002. He also advised that Mr. Wendling would meet
with Matrix to determine the position of the Amphitheatre in Memorial Park,
with the project going out for bid in January or February. He stated the
committee also discussed applying for the T-21 grant to construct the next
phase of sidewalks along Madison Pike from Sylvan Drive to the White’s property
at 5220 Madison, just south of Independence Station Road. He advised the
application for the T-21 grant is due on February 6, 2002. Mr. Moriconi stated
the committee discussed applying for a grant to assist in the cost of building
restroom facilities at Memorial Park. Ms. Brake stated that since the exact
placement of the restroom building at Memorial Park was not yet determined,
that it was decided to apply for the Land & Water grant to assist in the
installation of a water line to Independence Park for a water fountain. In
closing, Mr. Moriconi stated the committee also interviewed three architect
firms (Cole+Russell, GBBN and Matrix) for the design of a municipal center and
has recommended Cole+Russell be hired for this project.
Personnel & Administration Committee
37.   Chairman, Mr. Bushong stated the next quarterly meeting is scheduled to
meet in January.
Planning & Zoning Committee
38.   Chairman, Mr. Ellison stated the committee reviewed four matters. He
reported that Marty Neltner would like to install riding stables on his Taylor
Mill Road property and the committee has recommended that he apply for a zoning
text amendment to accomplish this project. Mr. Ellison stated the committee met
with Mr. Chuck Berling regarding a proposed zone change for a Phase II
development in the Villages of Beechgrove, which was addressed by council
earlier in this meeting. He stated the committee endorsed Mr. Berling’s
request. Mr. Ellison gave an updated report on amending the current ordinance
regarding flag lots. He stated the committee met with Mike Schwartz of the
Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission to review possible amendment
language and hopefully the amended ordinance will be submitted to council at
next month’s meeting for a first reading. Mr. Ellison also stated another
ordinance may be presented next month regarding Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission’s landscape regulations including tree preservation.
Public Safety Committee
39.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps stated the committee did not meet in December and
that the next scheduled meeting is on January 15, 2002.
Public Works Committee
40.   Chairman, Mr. Gabbard stated he would like to schedule a meeting for
February 20, 2002 at 5:30 p.m.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
41.   Mayor Kriege stated he had nothing to report. Mayor Kriege requested a
motion to go into Executive Session to discuss land acquisition and personnel
matters.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
42.   Councilmember Kudera moved, with second from Councilmember Gabbard to
enter into executive session to discuss possible land acquisition and personnel
matters in accordance with KRS 61.810 Section 1(b) and Section 1(f). Council
approved by unanimous vote, the time being 8:40 p.m.
43.   Following the executive session, at 9:45 p.m. Councilmember Gabbard
moved, with second from Councilmember Moriconi to reconvene the meeting.
Council approved by unanimous vote.
Emergency Ordinance No. 2002-O-02 Creating the Position of Senior Center
Director
44.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Bushong there was an
emergency reading of Ordinance No. 2002-O-02 to create the position of Senior
Center Director. Roll call was answered unanimously and Mr. Walker read the
ordinance.
45.   A motion was made by Mr. Bushong and seconded by Mr. Kudera to enact
Ordinance No. 2002-O-02 on an emergency basis declaring there was not
sufficient time to have two readings of the ordinance. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Resolution No. 2002-R-03 – Amending the Personnel Policy to include the Job
Description for Emergency Operations Director
46.   Councilmember Ellison moved, with second by Councilmember Kudera to read
Resolution No. 2002-R-03 amending the personnel policy to include the job
description for the Emergency Operations Director. Roll call was answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0 in favor. Mr. Walker read the ordinance.
Resolution No. 2002-R-04 – Amending the Personnel Policy to include the Job
Description for Senior Center Director
47.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Moriconi, there was a
reading of Resolution No. 2002-R-04 amending the personnel policy to include
the job description for the position of Senior Center Director. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Mr. Walker read the resolution.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-03 – Enacting a Personnel & Pay Classification Plan
48.   Councilmember Bushong moved, with second by Councilmember Kudera to read
Ordinance No. 2002-O-03 enacting a personnel & pay classification plan to
include the new employee positions. Roll was answered with five yes votes and
one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor. Mr. Walker read
the ordinance.
49.   Councilmember Kudera moved, with second by Councilmember Ellison to enact
Ordinance No. 2002-O-03 on an emergency basis declaring there was not
sufficient time to have two readings of the ordinance. Roll call was answered
with five ayes and one no vote cast by Councilmember Gabbard. Motion carried 5-
1 in favor.
ADJOURNMENT
50.   There being no further business, Mayor Kriege called for a motion to
adjourn the meeting. Councilmember Ellison so moved, with second from
Councilmember Dupps and unanimous approval of council, the time being 9:54 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
City of Independence, Kentucky
ATTEST:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 4, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant from the Grace Community Church gave the
invocation. Council Members, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Jim Kudera
and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member Ike Gabbard was absent.
Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator,
Mark T. Wendling.
Presentation of Proclamation
2.   Mayor Kriege presented a Proclamation to Dennis Behle of Huber and Behle
General Contractors to acknowledge the recent improvements made to their
building in the downtown area across from the Kenton County Courthouse. Mr.
Behle thanked Mayor Kriege and council and stated he looked forward to being a
part of the community.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 7, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of January 7, 2002 as submitted. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. No roll
call; motion carried with all ayes.
Independence Lions Club Annual Easter Egg Hunt
4.   Ms. Leann Pegg, Secretary of the Independence Lions Club, addressed
council about the funding of the annual Easter Egg Hunt. She stated the hunt
would be held on March 24, 2002 at Memorial Park. Mayor Kriege advised council
that the city donated $850.00 last year and that the same amount was factored
into the current budget under the Special Events line item for this year’s
event.
5.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to approve an $850.00 donation to this year’s
annual Easter Egg Hunt hosted by the Independence Lions Club. Mr. Moriconi
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with five yes votes. Motion carried
5-0 in favor.
DEMONSTRATION OF RED MAN SUITS BY THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
6.   Mayor Kriege stated that the Police Department would be demonstrating the
use of a Red Man suit that has been purchased with funds raised by the Citizens
Police Academy Alumni Association. He introduced Rich Noah, a member of the
Alumni Association. Mr. Noah stated that the Red Man suit was purchased with
funds raised by various events and sales held by the Academy Alumni. He stated
the Academy members held a dance, golf outing and compiled recipes for the sale
of an Alumni cookbook. He announced that a Valentine Dance being held on
February 15, 2002 would also raise funds for the Academy Alumni. Chief Butler
explained that the Red Man suit would help in the training of the officers for
contact situations. He expressed his appreciation to the Citizens Police
Academy Alumni, Mayor Kriege and council for their support. Chief Butler
introduced Patrol Officer Everett Stahl who proceeded to give a demonstration
of the use of a Red Man suit. There being members of the Citizens Police
Academy Alumni Association in the audience, Councilmember Kudera asked the
group to stand so they could be recognized by the council.
Discussion of NKAPC Landscape Regulations – Mike Schwartz
7.   Mayor Kriege presented to council a proposed ordinance that would provide
landscape regulations in zones with the exception of single-family, two family
and agricultural areas. He introduced Mike Schwartz from the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission who gave a more detailed explanation regarding this
proposal. Mr. Schwartz advised that the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission staff members drafted the proposed landscape regulations with
consultations from the Home Builders Association and other agencies. He stated
that the entire process took about one and one half years to complete and that
the Commission held several public meetings to hear comments and suggestions.
Mr. Schwartz stated the regulations would apply to industrial, commercial and
office building zones, not to single and duplex residential zones. He stated
the regulations are varied depending on the type of development. He stated that
the landscaping required for a commercial development situated next to a
residential property would be more stringent in order to provide a stronger
buffer between the two zones. He stated that the proposal addresses interior
landscaping for a development and that it would require five percent of a
parking lot to be landscaped and even specified the type of trees to be planted
that would control maintenance issues. Mr. Schwartz stated that landscaping
around dumpsters is also addressed so that the opening to the dumpster would
not be visible from the street. He stated the proposal also would require
certain landscaping for conditional use areas. Mr. Schwartz stated that other
guidelines are provided in the instruction manual and planting guide for
various alternatives. Mr. Schwartz stated that he has met with the city’s
Planning & Zoning Committee to discuss this proposal and stated the Planning
Commission is recommending that the landscape regulations be adopted by the
city. Mr. Ellison, Chairman of the Planning and Zoning Committee, stated that
the committee recommends the city attorney draft an ordinance, but would first
like the council to review the proposed regulations submitted by Mr. Schwartz.
Mr. Schwartz advised he has made presentations to several other Northern
Kentucky cities that are giving consideration to adopt these regulations as
well. Mr. Dupps suggested having a first reading of the ordinance prepared by
Mr. Walker, with amendments, if any, to be made next month after council has
had a chance to review the regulations.
Privileges of the Floor
8.   Mitchell Wade, 640 Willow Drive, stated that at the last council meeting
he had requested two letters from the city regarding two separate issues. He
stated that the first letter he received was regarding his request for a text
amendment to permit a car lot at the corner of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road
wherein the letter stated that the city doesn’t feel this text amendment was
needed. Mr. Wade stated that he did not ask for a letter stating the city does
not feel the “need”, but that the city refuses to support his request.
9.   Mr. Wade stated the other issue is the unresolved drainage problem his
property has endured since the installation of the Fowler Creek Sewer lines
several years ago. He stated the other letter from the city regarding this
issue indicated the city feels there is no evidence the sewer lines were
installed improperly, which he disagrees with. He feels the city is not
accepting responsibility for the condition of his property.
10.   Mayor Kriege responded by stating that Mr. Wade has been given every
opportunity by this council to present his grievances. He stated that council
has given him numerous occasions to provide evidence that the current condition
of his property was a result of the installation of the sewer lines. Mayor
Kriege stated that council has heard all this before and asked council if they
wanted to continue to debate this issue with Mr. Wade. Hearing no assertions,
Mayor Kriege closed the discussion with Mr. Wade.
11.   Bob Dodson, 3921 Trappers Court, reminded council that the commercial
trucks parked in the Hunters Green Subdivision, which he reported at the
December meeting, are still in violation. He wondered why these violators have
not complied with the ordinance prohibiting this. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Dodson
to submit the address to Mr. Wendling so that he can make inquires with the
Zoning Administrator about this violation. Mayor Kriege stated that the process
of ordering compliance should have already begun, but that it takes time.
12.   Keith Napier, 8976 Supreme Court, addressed council regarding the
amendment to the flag lots ordinance. He stated that the text amendment would
be discussed at the February 7, 2002 meeting of the Kenton County and Municipal
Planning and Zoning Commission and that council would not act on this until a
recommendation is received after that date. Mayor Kriege stated that he hoped
to have a first reading of a proposed ordinance that would amend the text
regarding this ordinance. Mr. Wendling stated that the proposed text would
require the flag lot to be one and one-half times the size of the front portion
of the property. He advised Mr. Napier that he might need to change the size of
his lot to conform to this text. Mayor Kriege recommended that Mr. Napier
attend the Thursday meeting of the Kenton County and Municipal Planning and
Zoning Commission.
Proposed Ordinance No. 2002-O-04 Regarding Ad Valorem (Road) Tax on the General
Election Ballot
13.   Mr. Kudera recommended the second reading of this proposed ordinance be
tabled until such a time that all members of council are present. Mr. Walker
advised this could be tabled until the next regular meeting.
14.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to table the second reading of the proposed
ordinance regarding an ad valorem (road) tax on the general election ballot,
seconded by Mr. Bushong. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-
0.
Resolution No. 2002-R-05 – Approving the Monthly CBDG Expenses for the Senior
Center
15.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the monthly CBDG expenses for the
Senior Center in the amount of $6,934.00, seconded by Mr. Dupps. A brief
discussion ensued. Mr. Ellison asked if this would be the final payment to the
contractor. Mr. Wendling replied no. He advised there was a problem with the
hood in the kitchen area in that it required additional outlets, costing about
$800. He stated he will be speaking to the architect regarding this additional
expense and will request that they pick up this cost. Mr. Wendling also stated
that he has an issue with the $3,892.00 change order, also and will discuss
this expense with the architect as well. Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2002-R-
05. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the NKAPC Landscape Regulations – 1st Reading
16.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps there was a first
reading of the proposed ordinance to adopt the landscape regulations as
proposed by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission. No roll call;
motion carried unanimously. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
17.   Mayor Kriege stated that a separate resolution would be presented to
adopt the planting manual. Mr. Walker advised the ordinance has to be adopted
prior to the resolution for the planting manual.
Proposed Annexation of a 500 Acres area along Hogreffe Road/Maher Road/Bristow
Road
18.   Before Chuck Berling made his presentation regarding the proposed
annexation and development, Mr. Walker advised council that at one time he
represented one of the developers of this project, but wanted to clarify that
he no longer represents them.
19.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Chuck Berling who would present an overview
of the proposed development of the west side area along Hogreffe, Maher and
Bristow Roads. He stated the developers would include Arlinghaus, Berling and
Glenhurst Development.
20.   Mr. Berling advised that approximately 440 acres would be developed in
the area and that the property owners are requesting the land be annexed into
the city of Independence. He stated there are four large parcels, which are
contiguous and would meet the at the city border by the Battleridge Subdivision
at Bristow Road. He stated that Phase I of the Glenhurst Development has been
approved and is under construction off of Maher Road at the Boone/Kenton County
line. He stated the Williams Woods subdivision along Bristow Road would have
80-foot lots and border the Glenhurst Development, which will have 50, 70 and
80-foot lots. He stated that a new elementary school would be located in this
area and they are currently working to designate a site for the school. He
stated it would take approximately a two to four year period to get the
approval and actually construct the school. He stated that the developers
originally planned to allocate thirteen acres for active recreational park use,
but has evolved to include a school in the area on five acres with the
remainder being developed for recreation. He stated the Glenhurst development
would have twenty to thirty acres available for the city to allocate for a park
system, but if the city did not want the area then they would approach Kenton
County for a county park. He stated that another significant part of this
development would be to construct a new connector road for Hogreffe and that
they are currently in preliminary agreement with the Kenton County Fiscal Court
to rebuild Hogreffe. He stated that long-term plans would be to eventually
connect Maher, Hogreffe and Bristow to ease transportation in this area. They
would also address the issue of the railroad tracks in order to access the
other part of the subdivisions. Mr. Berling stated that the development would
be phased over a ten to fifteen year period, depending on how quickly the
building lots are sold. He stated that overall density would be 2.4 units per
acre and that Arlinghaus Builders would develop three quarters of the lots with
other builders developing the remaining, smaller lots. Mr. Kudera asked if
there would be access to the Boone County industrial park. Mr. Berling stated
there would not be direct access as there is a building currently there that
cuts off access to the subdivision. But stated that there will be three ways to
access the development from Mt. Zion Road. Mr. Kudera asked if there were plans
for a firehouse in the area. Mr. Mike Schwartz interjected that the
Comprehensive Plan recommends a firehouse location, as well as an elementary
school, but that the Plan does not show an exact site for a firehouse.
21.   Mr. Wendling stated that the School Board has expressed excitement
regarding the offer of free land in this development and has stated that they
will definitely build a school on the site. He stated the city could develop
ball fields, but that it may require zone changes as it is close to a proposed
industrial area.
22.   Mr. Bushong asked what the cost of the homes would be. Mr. Berling stated
the smaller homes would be near the Boone County line and the original plan is
for a cluster overlay for the 50-80 foot lots in an R1-C and R1-D zones. Mr.
Wendling stated the Planning & Zoning Committee is recommending that the city
annex this development. Mr. Berling stated that Williams Woods construction
would begin this summer and that Glenhurst Development is already under
construction. Mr. Berling discussed layout of the development and the
connections of the various subdivisions with Mr. Moriconi. Mr. Bushong asked
how many lots would be developed. Mr. Berling stated that the development
originally planned for 1061 lots. Mr. Wendling stated that the school will take
a large area causing this number of lots to decrease and that some lot sizes
may be increased also affecting the final number of lots developed. Mr. Berling
stated that the home prices would range between $125,000 to $275,000. Mr.
Berling stated that the school board has very specific topography requirements
for the land in order to build a school. Mr. Berling advised that the final
layout of the development would change somewhat to accommodate the school needs
and design the infrastructure. Mr. Dupps asked what the square mileage of the
entire area would be. Mr. Berling replied it would be around 2/3 of a square
mile.
23.   Mayor Kriege presented to council a proposed ordinance that would start
the annexation process. Mr. Walker advised that the city has received
agreements from the various owners requesting to be annexed. It stated that
this is an annexation by agreement, but the owners are allowing the city to
annex the land in exchange for the city granting the zone change they are
requesting. Mr. Walker advised that the first step in the process would give
the city the ability to go to the Planning Commission to propose the
annexation. He stated this process would begin with the first reading of a
proposed ordinance pronouncing the intent to annex the land. He stated that
then the city would go back to the Planning Commission for a hearing for the
requested zone change, then the zone change request would be presented to the
council and a first reading of an ordinance agreeing to annex the land. Mayor
Kriege stated that the entire process could take until May to complete.
24.   Mr. Kudera made the motion, seconded by Mr. Bushong to have a first
reading of the proposed ordinance declaring the intent to annex the land. No
roll call; motion carried with four ayes, with Mr. Ellison abstaining. Mr.
Walker read the proposed ordinance.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
25.   Mr. Wendling advised that because the city building will be closed on
Monday, February 18 in observance of Presidents’ Day he would like to
reschedule the Budget and Finance Committee meeting. He will discuss a date
with Mr. Kudera and advise.
26.   Mr. Wendling announced that the new Senior Center Director, Joan Bowling,
began employment with the city today. She will begin setting up her office in
the center and will host a Valentine’s Day Open House next week.
27.   He advised that he would meet with Matrix Architects on Thursday to
discuss the Memorial Park Master Plan and completing that project.
28.   He stated that he has spoken to Drees regarding the city’s concerns in
the development of the park in the Lakefield Subdivision.
29.   Mr. Wendling stated there has been a collaborative effort to have
Turkeyfoot Road reconstructed. He stated it will require some commitment from
the city as well as other communities, but many are willing to forego other
projects in order to get this project underway.
30.   Mr. Kudera asked what business was taking up residence in the old IGA
store in the Cherokee Shopping Center. Mr. Wendling stated it might be a Dollar
Store.
31.   Mr. Bushong asked for a status report on the amphitheatre project. Mr.
Wendling stated he would be meeting with Mr. Charlie Deters to discuss the
issue of cost and the possible need to redesign the building to scale back the
size in order to keep it under budget. He stated he would like to bid this
project out soon. He advised that the Department of Local Government has
approved the delay of the project. Mr. Bushong asked how much over budget the
last bid was. Mr. Wendling stated that it was not bid at prevailing wage, which
is required for construction costs over $250,000. He stated that the architect
should have known about this requirement. It was $65,000 over budget. He stated
that the total, all-inclusive budget should not exceed $280,000. He stated that
they would be looking at ways to cut costs.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance
32.   Chairman, Mr. Kudera stated there was no report.
Building & Recreation
33.   Chairman, Mr. Moriconi stated that the city has received funding for a
Municipal Center. He also reported that the grant application for Phase II of
sidewalk construction along Madison Pike is due by the state on February 6,
2002.
Personnel & Administration
34.   Chairman, Mr. Bushong stated the committee would meet on Tuesday,
February 12, 2002.
Planning & Zoning
35.   Chairman, Mr. Ellison reported that Glenn Ellison (no relation) is
looking to purchase from the city some land for development of several single-
family homes on Scherry Avenue. Mr. Wendling stated that part of this land was
sold a few years ago and verification of this land is being reviewed.
Public Safety
36.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps stated the committee is reviewing the pay scale for
the police department with the goal of bringing the scale in line with other
comparable police departments. He stated the Chief feels the department is
loosing officers due to the pay scale.
Public Works
37.   Chairman, Mr. Gabbard was absent. Mayor Kriege stated this committee
meets quarterly and is scheduled to meet on February 20, 2002.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
38.   Mayor Kriege announced that the annual Planning Session is being planned
for Saturday, March 16, 2002 from 8 a.m. until 4 p.m. at the Senior Center.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
39.   Mayor Kriege requested a motion to go into Executive Session pursuant to
K.R.S.61.810 (1) (b) regarding deliberations of land acquisition. Mr. Dupps so
moved, with second by Mr. Moriconi and unanimous approval of council.
40.   Following the executive session Mr. Bushong moved, with second from Mr.
Ellison to reconvene the meeting at 8:32 p.m.
Resolution No. 2002-R-06 – Authorizing the Mayor to Sign a Purchase Agreement
from Taylor Smith
41.   Motion was made by Mr. Ellison and seconded by Mr. Bushong to read
Resolution No. 2002-R-06 authorizing Mayor Kriege to sign the purchase
agreement and any other documents pertaining to the purchase of lots 1,2,3,4,5
and 6 of the Golden Ridge Subdivision from Taylor Smith to the City of
Independence for municipal purposes with the stipulation that the purchase
price of $185,000 be taken from the city reserve Building Fund account and be
returned to the reserve account after the sale of the current city
administration building. Roll call was unanimous; motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Adjournment
42.   Mayor Kriege called for a motion to adjourn. Mr. Ellison so moved, with
second by Mr. Dupps and unanimous approval of council, the time being 8:35 p.m.
_____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MARCH 4, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant from the Grace Community Church gave the
invocation. Council Members, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera
and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member Jim Ellison was absent
due to personal reasons. Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker
and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Swearing In of New Patrol Officer, James E. Moore
2.   Police Chief Shawn Butler introduced James Moore to Mayor Kriege and
council as a new hire for the Police Department. Mayor Kriege gave the Oath of
Office to the new patrol officer.
Approval of the Minutes of the February 4, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of February 4, 2002 as amended. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried with all ayes. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
4.   William Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, addressed council regarding the Annual
Planning Session that is scheduled for Saturday, March 16, 2002. He asked if
the agenda would include discussion about a proposed tax increase. Mayor Kriege
replied that the agenda had not been determined yet, and that no decisions are
made at the Planning Session just discussions on priority issues concerning the
city. Mayor Kriege stated that comments from citizens would be permitted. Mr.
Miller turned his remarks to the council members by reminding them that four of
the six current council members made campaign promises at the public forum held
at Summit View School that they would not vote to increase taxes. Mayor Kriege
disputed Mr. Miller’s assertion by stating that less than four of the council
made this promise. Mr. Dupps commented that it was possible that the
discussions at the Planning Session would revolve around tax decreases as well
as increases.
Discussion Regarding Intent to Annex Approximately 500 Acres Along West Side of
City
5.   Before this discussion began, Council Member Gabbard announced that
because a friend of his owned some of the property that may be annexed he would
not participate in this discussion, excused himself and vacated the room.
6.   Mayor Kriege introduced Chuck Berling who was the spokesperson
representing a group of developers that were requesting annexation into the
city. Mr. Berling stated that some loose ends have been tied up since last
month’s council meeting. He stated that they have received approval of the
school and it’s location of the site by the State Board of Education. Mr.
Berling distributed drawings for council to review. He pointed out that
Hogreffe Road has been realigned with placement of the proposed school at the
intersection. He also indicated that a site has been designated for a future
firehouse and police substation. Mr. Berling stated that sewer, water and gas
utilities will be run to the area. Mr. Bushong asked when the school would be
built. Mr. Berling advised that it would be approximately three years before
the site would be reconstructed and that the school board has agreed to build
the school within ten years. He stated that the school board’s bonding
capabilities will determine when they can build. He stated that the school
board anticipates building this in the next several years and that it will be
large enough to house six hundred students. Mr. Berling stated that they hope
to obtain some state funds to reconstruct the county roads.
7.   Mayor Kriege turned the floor over to City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker who
explained to council the procedure before them. He stated that in addition to
the request by this group to have this property annexed into the city, they are
also requesting a zone change. He advised that presently the zone change
request is before the Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission
who will hold a public hearing on this matter this Thursday and must first
receive approval by the Commission before being acted upon by City Council. Mr.
Walker stated that council should first complete the process of their intent to
annex by having a second reading of the ordinance to do so. He stated that it
was necessary to put the annexation in place in order to give the city standing
in this process. He explained that the blanks in the proposed ordinance would
be filled in with the date of publication. Mr. Walker explained that the intent
to annex allows the owners of the property sixty days to oppose the annexation;
although he does not anticipate this will happen, as this is an annexation by
request of the owners. Mr. Walker advised that in addition to a second reading
of the intent to annex ordinance, that a proposed ordinance to actually annex
the property is being presented to them tonight for a first reading. Mr. Dupps
expressed concern that the process may not proceed as outlined.
8.   Mr. Walker stated that a special meeting of council would be needed to
have a first reading of a zone change ordinance as requested by the group of
developers. He stated that the second reading of the ordinance would be at a
subsequent meeting probably sometime in April. He stated that first the city
would need to receive a recommendation from the Planning Commission regarding
the zone change request. Mr. Kudera questioned the need to have a second
reading on the intent to annex ordinance. Mr. Walker advised that it was
necessary to approve the intent to annex so that the Planning Commission can
deal with the city’s plan.
9.   Mr. Dupps stated that the Public Safety Committee has discussed the
additional burden this development would put on the police department. Chief
Butler concurred that this development will have a major impact in the future
with the addition of a new school and approximately 1100 homes.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-04 – Intent to Annex Approximately 500 Acres on West Side
of City – 2nd Reading
10.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps there was a second
reading, by title only, of the intent to annex Ordinance No. 2002-O-04. Mr.
Dupps stated that he has spoke to a resident on Hogreffe Road who expressed
interest in being annexed into the city. He stated that he spoke to Mr.
Wendling regarding cleaning up some of the city boundaries in this area. Mayor
Kriege stated that this ordinance is only taking into account the development
area that has been agreed upon by the property owners. There being no further
discussion, Mayor Kriege requested that roll call be taken. Roll all was
answered with four yes votes. Motion carried 4-0 in favor.
1st Reading of Proposed Ordinance Annexing Approximately 500 Acres of
Unincorporated Area on West Side
11.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance that would annex approximately 500 acres of unincorporated land lying
contiguous and adjacent to the city. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Mr.
Bushong questioned the difference in having a first and second reading of the
ordinance as opposed to one emergency reading. Mr. Walker advised that it is
not recommended to annex property by emergency. He stated that adopting certain
ordinances, such as budget and annexations, are not looked upon as urgent
situations that would necessitate the waiving of a second reading. There being
no further discussion, Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance. Roll call was
answered 4-0 in favor; motion carried.
12.   Before continuing with the agenda, Mayor Kriege asked that Mr. Gabbard be
told that the discussion regarding the annexation issue had ended. Mr. Gabbard
re-entered the meeting room and participated in the rest of the meeting
Ordinance No. 2002-O-05 – Adopting the NKAPC Landscape Regulations – 2nd
Reading
13.   Mayor Kriege presented Ordinance No. 2002-O-05 adopting landscape
regulations as recommended by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission
for a second reading. He advised that the suggested planting manual would be
adopted by resolution as a supplement to the ordinance. He stated that it would
be easier to amend the planting manual in the future, if necessary, if adopted
by resolution.
14.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance No. 2002-
O-05 adopting landscape regulations. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. A brief
discussion ensued. Mr. Gabbard expressed his concerns that this ordinance was
too complex and felt it would be difficult to enforce these regulations. He
felt it would take a zoning administrator an inordinate amount of time to
ensure compliance of this ordinance. Mayor Kriege stated he felt that by
adopting this it was better than having no regulations at all. He stated that
he trusted that the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission staff members
put together a set of regulations that would be manageable. Mr. Gabbard agreed
that the city needs some kind of regulations, but felt it would be time
consuming for a zoning administrator to do this, as well as necessary for that
individual to be familiar with a variety of trees and plants. Mr. Bushong
stated that it has been his experience that the more regulations you have in
writing the better it will be. Mr. Kudera felt the proposed regulations were
not as strong as it could be especially in some areas, but overall he felt the
regulations would have a good effect. Mayor Kriege stated that the Planning
Commission staff worked with local developers for well over a year to draft
these regulations that would be practical and effective.
15.   There being no further discussion, Mr. Walker read Ordinance 2002-O-05.
Roll call was answered with four yes votes with Mr. Gabbard opting to pass.
Motion carried.
Resolution No. 2002-R-07 – Adopting a Landscape Planting Manual
16.   Mayor Kriege presented Resolution No. 2002-R-07 that would approve a
planting manual to be used in conjunction with the landscape regulations
adopted by Ordinance No. 2002-O-05. He advised that by adopting the planting
manual by resolution, separate from the landscape regulations ordinance, it
would provide amendments to the manual to be made with ease. Mr. Dupps motioned
and Mr. Bushong seconded the adoption of Resolution No. 2002-R-07. No roll was
called; four ayes were cast with Mr. Gabbard opting to pass. Motion carried.
Resolution No. 2002-R-08 – Supporting the City of Taylor Mill Regarding Traffic
Flow Concerns in the Area of Route 16
17.   Mayor Kriege presented to council this resolution that would support the
City of Taylor Mill in their concerns regarding the increasing traffic flows
within southern Kenton County. He advised that representatives from the City of
Taylor Mill were unable to attend this evening. He stated that the City of
Taylor Mill is requesting that the state Transportation Cabinet research
alternative routes, more specifically the east/west corridor of Hands Pike (Ky
Rt. 1501). Mayor Kriege advised that the resolution supports their request that
funds allocated for the Ky 16 project is reallocated to the improvement of Ky
1501 (Hands Pike) instead.
18.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2002-R-08 supporting
the City of Taylor Mill in petitioning the Transportation Cabinet of Kentucky
to divert funds from the Route 16 Project to the Route 1501 Project. Mr. Kudera
seconded the motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Moriconi expressed concern
with reallocating funds away from the Route 16 Project. Mayor Kriege stated the
City of Taylor Mill would like to see Hands Pike widened to the intersection
with Route 17. Mayor Kriege stated that because this is a long-term project,
modifications would probably be necessary. He stated that the Route 16 Project
is not even on the list of future proposed state projects. Mr. Wendling stated
that Taylor Mill has requested support of this resolution from the Kenton
County Fiscal Court and the City of Covington. Mr. Moriconi was concerned that
support of this resolution may not be in the best interest of the City of
Independence as this basically is requesting that no funds be allotted for the
widening of Route 16 which runs through the east side of Independence. Mr.
Bushong concurred. He stated that a road widening of Hands Pike would not help
Independence. He commented that Route 16 is a major artery in the City of
Independence. He stated that he would have liked for a representative of Taylor
Mill to appear before council so he could have learned more of their reason for
requesting Independence’s support of this resolution.
19.   Mr. Kudera commented that there are critical issues concerning Taylor
Mill with the widening of Route 16. The state would have to dislocate too many
families along the road and the state cannot provide traffic data.
20.   Mayor Kriege advised that the City of Taylor Mill is in disagreement with
the Transportation Cabinet on the planned alignment of Route 16. Mr. Moriconi
reiterated that he doesn’t feel that diverting funds from the Route 16 Project
to the Hands Pike project is in the best interest of Independence. Mr. Gabbard
stated that currently no state funds have been allocated to the Route 16
Project, so all the city would be doing is supporting them by resolution.
21.   At this time, Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2002-R-08 in summary. Mayor
Kriege suggested the city’s intent could be clarified by inserting another
section in the resolution that would add the following wordage, “provided that
this resolution does not adversely impact funding for future widening of
Kentucky 16 from Hands Pike south to Kentucky Route 536.” Mr. Walker advised
that a motion and second would be needed to amend this resolution. Mr. Gabbard
suggested not voting on this tonight, as he would like to see the final
resolution after the wordage is added. There was another brief discussion
regarding the flow of traffic in the Route 16, Route 17, Hands Pike and Route
536 areas. Mr. Gabbard stated that since no current state funds have been
allocated for the Route 16 Project, he has no reservations in supporting the
City of Taylor Mill with this resolution, as he too, does not want to take
anything away from Independence.
22.   Mayor Kriege proposed approving the amendment of the resolution with the
added language. Mr. Moriconi made a motion to amend Resolution No. 2002-R-08;
seconded by Mr. Kudera. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and one no
vote cast by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
23.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2002-R-08 as amended
to include the phrase “provided that this resolution does not adversely impact
funding for future widening of Kentucky 16 from Hands Pike south to Kentucky
Route 536.” Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with three
yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Dupps and Mr. Bushong. Motion carried 3-
2 in favor.
Annual Project Prom Donation – Simon Kenton High School
24.   Mayor Kriege advised council that the city has received the annual
donation request from Simon Kenton High School Project Prom Committee. He asked
Chief Butler to expound on Project Prom. Chief Butler advised that Project Prom
is an excellent arrangement wherein the students attending are locked down for
the event. He stated this is a good alternative to private parties after the
prom as it keeps the kids off the street. He stated that one-third of the
proceeds from the basketball event are donated to Project Prom also. Mayor
Kriege advised that last year the city donated $500.00 to Project Prom.
25.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Dupps, to approve a $500.00
donation to this years Simon Kenton High School Project Prom. Motion passed
with a unanimous roll call vote.
Award Bid for Production Court Storm Sewer Replacement
26.   City Engineer, Dave Whitacre reported to council that the city received
four bids for the storm sewer replacement on Production Court. He stated the
bids ranged from a low bid of $38,544.00 from JPS Construction to a high bid of
$60,255.02 from Hendy Incorporated. Mr. Whitacre advised council that this
replacement is not a permanent repair. He stated the project would include the
installation of 128 feet of concrete pipe. He also advised that Production
Court would have to be closed for two days while the work is performed. In
addition the pond will need to be drained to prevent water from going through
it while the work is being done. Mr. Whitacre stated they have been aware of
this problem for about a year and that there is no alternative than to replace
the line. Mayor Kriege advised this project had been budgeted. Mr. Wendling
stated that since the work will be done in July that the budgeted funds will
carry over into the next fiscal year. Mr. Dupps asked if the contractors were
aware of the time frame. Mr. Whitacre stated the time frame was clearly defined
in the bid packet. Mr. Dupps asked if the council could award a bid that would
be paid out of next years budget. Mr. Walker stated that this was acceptable to
pre-bind for the next fiscal year. Mr. Wendling advised that this is not an
uncommon practice as accepting bids early in the season results in better bid
prices for the city.
27.   Mr. Whitacre stated that the low bidder, JPS Construction has performed
other projects for the City of Independence. Mr. Wendling advised that LN
Concrete is currently suing JPS Construction and the City of Independence has
been named as a party in the suit. Mr. Walker explained this lawsuit to the
council and how the city has become party to this. Apparently JPS Construction
purchased concrete from LN Concrete that was used on some city streets. JPS has
an outstanding balance with LN Concrete, which is the reason for the lawsuit.
JPS contends that the concrete was substandard, resulting in the replacement of
certain sections of some of the newly cemented city streets and therefore has
not paid LN Concrete what is owed to them. Mr. Walker advised that since the
city has paid JPS in full, he feels the city will be dismissed as a party in
the lawsuit.
28.   Mr. Whitacre stated that the city has ninety days to award the bid. Mr.
Kudera made a motion to award the bid to JPS Construction as the lowest and
best bid. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four yes
votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Bushong. Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the Flag Lot Ordinance No. 1999-O-11 – 1st
Reading
29.   In the absence of the Planning & Zoning Committee Chairman, Mr. Ellison,
Mr. Wendling explained that the proposed ordinance presented to council was the
result of the Planning & Zoning Committee’s many discussions regarding the ban
on flag lots as outlined by ordinance a few years ago. He stated that the
current ordinance’s intent was to curtail the numerous flag lots that were
appearing on new residential development plans. Mr. Wendling stated there are
some residents who are requesting approval to subdivide their property and the
current ordinance does not permit them to place a “flag lot” to the rear of
their property. He stated that the committee had worked with Scott Hiles of the
Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission to develop language to amend the
current ordinance. He stated that at the recent hearing by the Kenton County &
Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission the city was denied this text amendment
request. He stated their denial was determined largely on the feeling that the
city adopted the ordinance against their recommendation and they feel the city
should be following their recommendations on flag lots. Mr. Moriconi asked if
this amended ordinance would permit flag lots in new subdivisions. Mr. Wendling
stated that flag lots would be permitted in new developments but that the lots
would require more restrictions. Mr. Walker explained in detail the definition
of flag lots. He stated the lots would have to have 120 feet and be one and
one-half times the width of the lot, which will make it hard to comply with.
Mr. Wendling stated that the wording was done in such a way that it would help
residents to subdivide their land, yet not be attractive to developers. Mr.
Moriconi commented that he would hate to see them reappearing in the
subdivisions as people generally don’t like flag lots but sometimes they are
larger then the other lots. Mr. Walker stated that the Board of Adjustments
would consider the issue. Mr. Dupps questioned whether the current ordinance
permits the Board of Adjustments to rule on flag lots. Mr. Walker replied that
no prior ordinance states that flag lots are prohibited. During a lengthy
discussion on this matter Mr. Walker cautioned council on imposing stronger
restrictions. He stated that you should exercise caution when dealing with
setbacks. Mayor Kriege stated that the Board of Adjustments could make a ruling
to permit a structure to be closer but that it would not change the definition
of that zone. Mayor Kriege stated that it could be more restrictive and feels
it is necessary but it may not help the individual(s) who requested this
amendment and they may have to make modifications. He commented that he is not
sure the Board of Adjustments can approve a variance. Mr. Wendling reminded
council that the Planning & Zoning Committee supported the working in this
proposed amended ordinance.
30.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a first reading on the proposed
ordinance to amend the current Ordinance No. 1999-O-11 enacting a text
amendment to the zoning ordinance approving the definition and regulations for
‘flag lots.’ Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four
yes votes, with Mr. Gabbard opting to pass, citing that he does not like flag
lots. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment Permitting Riding Stables/Indoor Riding
Arenas as a Conditional Use in a Residential Zone – Presented for a 1st
Reading, But was Tabled
31.   Mayor Kriege presented to council a proposed text amendment to the zoning
ordinance that would add riding stables and indoor riding arenas to the list of
conditional uses within residential zones. He stated this text amendment is
being presented at the request of Marty Neltner, 6239 Taylor Mill Road who
would like to construct a riding stable and arena on the property. Mr. Gabbard
stated that he felt there was a problem with the ordinance in that no amount of
land is specified and he thinks it would be wise to have a minimum of three to
five acres stated in the ordinance. Mr. Wendling stated that that was a major
concern of the Planning & Zoning Committee also. Mr. Walker advised that this
text amendment has already gone before the Kenton County and Municipal Planning
& Zoning Commission for their approval and that changes cannot be made adding
text that was not discussed at their public hearing on this matter. Mr. Gabbard
stated that he felt there could be problems with the number of acres necessary
for such a development not being addressed in the ordinance. He also felt the
surrounding neighbors may complain regarding the odor, etc. if too many horses
were allowed to gather in a confined area. He asked Mr. Neltner how many acres
he had. Mr. Neltner replied that he has thirteen acres. Mayor Kriege asked Mr.
Neltner if he considered requesting a zone change. Mr. Neltner replied that he
doesn’t remember. He stated he would hire someone to care for the horses and
that the horses would be kept in stalls and not out in the pasture. Mr. Neltner
presented to council an aerial photo that indicates where he would place the
arena, etc. and the adjoining barn. Mr. Neltner stated that if council wanted
to send this proposal back to the Planning Commission to amendment for a
minimum acreage requirement that it would be okay with him.
32.   Mr. Walker advised council that any text amendment would have to go
before the Planning Commission, but reminded them that the ordinance being
presented to them requires the approval by the Board of Adjustments for a
conditional use. Mayor Kriege agreed that language requiring minimum acreage
should be added to this ordinance. Mr. Walker suggested that the minimum land
requirement be seven acres. Mr. Gabbard suggested there be a limit on the
number of horses and acreage. Mr. Dupps suggested looking at the zones. Upon
motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Kudera the matter was tabled. Motion
carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 2001-02 Budget – 1st Reading
33.   Mayor Kriege presented to council an amended budget ordinance for the
2001/02 fiscal year. Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a first reading of the
amended budget ordinance; seconded by Mr. Bushong.
34.   A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Kriege referred council to Mr.
Wendling’s memo wherein he details the reasons for the amendment to the budget.
The memo cites several areas that the budget changed and included increased
health insurance costs, which were estimated; Zoning Administrator contract,
which was also estimated and the actual costs have been higher; PVA assessment,
which is also an estimate that cannot be determined until the property
valuations are complete in August; dog control contract, the authority raised
their fee of which we had no prior knowledge; police vehicle and property
insurance, the headquarters nor the contents was in the old contract; disparity
between prior year fund balances, due to required GASB 33 accounting
procedures; Senior Center fund, Director’s salary and other related expenses;
and, Municipal Center revenues and expenditures, due to the loan proceeds from
the bond issue and expenses associated with land acquisition.
35.   Mr. Gabbard questioned if the health increase was only for the Public
Works Department. Mr. Wendling replied no that it was due to the anticipated
increase in April. Mr. Gabbard also questioned the disparity of the prior year
fund balance. Mayor Kriege advised that revenue was collected after the fiscal
year for a period and then it is accrued back into the current year. He stated
that three months was accrued back. Finance Director, Janet Rebman, explained
this was payroll taxes. Mayor Kriege explained this was an adjustment and that
$350,000 spiked up the fund balance. Mr. Gabbard commented that the end of June
shows that but the city won’t actually have the funds.
36.   Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance amending the 2002/03 budget. Roll
call was answered with four yes votes, with Mr. Gabbard opting to pass. Motion
carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Update Supplement to the Code of Ordinances –
1st Reading
37.   Mayor Kriege presented the proposed ordinance to update the supplement to
the Code of Ordinances for the last two years (2000 and 2002) ordinances.
38.   Motion was made by Mr. Kudera and seconded by Mr. Bushong, that the
ordinance has a first reading. Mr. Gabbard stated that mistakes were found in
the past and requested that the city attorney review this supplement before
being adopted into the Code. Mr. Walker agreed to review this. Motion carried
5-0 in favor of the first reading. Mr. Gabbard cited that he would agree to a
first reading on the stipulation that Mr. Walker agreed to review this before
the second reading and adoption of the ordinance. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
39.   Mr. Wendling reported that the Senior Center held an Open House on
February 14, 2002 and had a turnout of about 300-400 people. He stated that the
Senior Center also received good feedback from the recent survey distributed.
Mr. Kudera asked if the membership has increased. Ms. Bowling reported that
membership is currently at 400 and continues to grow. She also reported many
seniors are volunteering their time to help out. She stated that in an effort
to continue to raise funds for the center they are currently selling naming
rights; chairs $31 and tables $345.00. Mr. Moriconi inquired when the center
would begin renting rooms. Mr. Wendling replied that they are still researching
rental fees and hope to present a report to council on their findings soon. Mr.
Dupps suggested placing the Senior Center’s phone number in the city
newsletter.
40.   Mr. Moriconi asked if the annual Planning Session would begin at 8:00
a.m. or 9:00 a.m. Mayor Kriege stated the Session would begin at 8:00 a.m. and
would be held in the Senior Center.
41.   Mr. Wendling reported that Matrix Architects have promised that the
Memorial Park Master Plan would be completed soon.
42.   Mr. Wendling stated that the City Engineer has inspected the Marion
Schadler Park in the Lakefield Subdivision and is of the opinion that the
drainage problem needs to be addressed. He stated the city would continue to
work with the Drees Company to resolve all concerns before taking over this
property.
43.   Mr. Wendling stated that the Industrial Road improvements would not be
funded by the state in the near future. So this project is on hold
indefinitely.
44.   Mr. Wendling reported that the Special Events Committee is going strong.
He stated the primary focus of the group at this time is the July 4th
Celebration. Nita Brake, Recreation Director, reported that booth rental would
be $50.00 with each booth keeping 100% of the profits. He stated there would be
lots of entertainment this year, including kiddie rides, music, and a landing
of a Black Hawk. Ms. Brake stated that Q-102 radio station would also have a
remote broadcast from 5:00 – 7:00 p.m. and that Fox News would have a live
broadcast on their 10:00 News. She stated the next meeting of this committee
would be held on March 21, 2002 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Center.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
45.   Chairman, Mr. Kudera stated the committee worked on the amended budget
and will not meet again until after the Planning Session.
Building & Recreation Committee
46.   Chairman, Mr. Moriconi stated that they met with the property owners
along the area between Hartland Blvd. and Walnut Hall Drive where sidewalks
will be installed this spring. He stated their purpose was to discuss the plans
for sidewalks and answer any questions the property owners may have. He stated
that most were glad for the addition of sidewalks. He stated the committee
would meet again later this month.
Personnel & Administration Committee
47.   Chairman, Mr. Bushong, stated that some job descriptions are being
reviewed but are not ready for adoption yet.
Planning & Zoning Committee
48.   Chairman, Mr. Ellison was absent. Mayor Kriege reported that some of the
issues the committee has been reviewing were presented at tonight’s meeting.
Public Safety Committee
49.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps advised the committee is discussing a more
competitive pay plan. Chief Butler reported that the fourth Citizens Police
Academy would begin soon. Once again they have a full class, as this has become
a very successful public service. Mr. Bushong asked if they would be conducting
a senior’s only class. Chief Butler replied they have a tentative date for the
seniors’ class scheduled for June. He stated he has spoken to Ms. Bowling about
this and she will put a notice in the April newsletter.
50.   Mr. Dupps stated the committee would meet again on March 19, 2002 at 5:30
p.m.
Public Works Committee
51.   Chairman, Mr. Gabbard stated the committee discussed the deteriorating
condition of some streets, especially in the newer subdivisions like
Battleridge and Falcon Ridge. He stated these streets should not be in such bad
shape this soon. He stated that Jeff Smith has indicated that the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission has not been notifying the city engineer so
that he can be present for the concrete pours. Mayor Kriege expressed concern
that since so many streets are being installed, that the city engineer would be
kept very busy if he was present for all pours. Mr. Whitacre affirmed that he
has not been receiving notification regarding these street pours. Mr. Gabbard
stated that he felt the city could save a lot of money in premature maintenance
of these streets if they were monitored more closely for substandard work.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
52.   Mayor Kriege announced that the annual Planning Session would be held on
Saturday, March 16, 2002 at the Senior Center from 8:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m.
53.   Mayor Kriege also invited the council members to the next Municipal
Government League of Northern Kentucky dinner to be held on March 21, 2002 at
6:00 p.m. at the Fort Thomas Community Center.
54.   Mr. Gabbard asked the city attorney to provide council with an update on
the status of litigation that he is currently working on for the city. Mr.
Walker stated he would copy the letter sent to the city’s auditor.
ADJOURNMENT
55.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Gabbard the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting was closed at 9:05 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 1, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Lisa May from the Staffordsburg United Methodist Church
gave the invocation. Council Members Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim
Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member Jim Bushong was
absent. Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City
Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the March 4, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of March 4, 2002 as submitted. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with three yes votes and two pass votes cast by Mr. Gabbard
and Mr. Ellison. Motion carried.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
3.   Mayor Kriege introduced Gary Edmondson, Kenton County Attorney, who
announced that he would hold seminars on Elder Law and Neighborhood Law during
the months of April and May at two branches of the Kenton County Public Library
and the Kenton County Extension Center. Mr. Edmondson encouraged council and
the general public to attend these seminars, especially the Neighborhood Law as
it covers issues the city would be involved with regarding boundary lines, etc.
4.   Mayor Kriege informed the large audience in attendance that he assumes
they are present to address council regarding the proposed development along
Bristow-Hogreffe-Maher Roads. He stated that he would allow Mr. Chuck Berling
to make his presentation and afterward would allow public comments from the
audience.
5.   Mr. Gabbard recused himself from the discussion citing a possible conflict
regarding this matter and left the room. Mr. Ellison likewise excused himself
and left the room.
6.   Mr. Berling stated that he feels that the major objection of the proposed
development is the density. He stated that he is willing to agree to a formal
agreement with the city. He stated that the development proposes 2.5 units per
acre and that the numbers circulating are incorrect. He stated that the Falcon
Ridge Subdivision has a density of 2.5 units per acre and that the Hartland
Subdivision has 315 houses on 134 acres of land. Mr. Berling stated that the
R1-C zoning permits 3.5 units per acre and that the request for smaller lots
would create more open green space. He stated that he feels the density issue
is a mute point, as the development will not exceed 2.5 units per acre. He
stated the developers have committed land to the Kenton County School Board,
the Independence Fire District and the City of Independence for a police
station. He stated the densest area if R1-F which is still less than the
density of the Falcon Ridge Subdivision. He stated that the developers would
also upgrade Hogreffe Road and the School Board would pursue funds to upgrade
and widen the through lanes. He advised that the School Board has indicated
that the earliest they would be able to construct a school on the designated
property would be three years, which is also the earliest all utility lines
would be installed and road improvements made. The School Board also indicated
that it might be five years before they will have bonding capabilities
available.
7.   Mr. Berling sated he would be requesting plat approval from the Planning
Commission. He advised everyone that it is necessary to understand that this
development is a very long-term project, taking approximately twenty-two years
to build out.
8.   Mayor Kriege opened the floor for questions from the council members. Mr.
Moriconi asked what the maximum number of units for a R1-F zone. Mr. Berling
replied 2.69 units which is 150 lots on 130 acres and this area would be
adjacent to the industrial buildings. He stated the R1- zone would accommodate
smaller lots.
9.   Mayor Kriege stated that Frank Platek, 732 Hogreffe Road, was unable to
attend tonight’s meeting, but has presented a letter wherein he requests the
city to uphold the previous zoning rulings of the Planning Commission and not
permit the Hogreffe Road areas to be annexed at a higher density zone. He
stated Mr. Platek would like his letter to become part of the official record
of the minutes of this meeting. Mayor Kriege ordered the City Clerk to attach
the letter to the official minutes and copy to council.
10.   Mr. Ray Scarton, 496 Hogreffe Road, spoke against the proposed
development and stated that he was in agreement with Mr. Platek’s letter. He
advised council that on six separate occasions the Planning Commission has
endorsed the current zoning of this area. He questioned whether the developers
were talking about net density or gross density, as he is very familiar with
the area and said that much of it is steep, making it unbuildable. Taking that
into consideration, he fears there will be six or seven units per acre. Mr.
Scarton also expressed concern that the proposed housing would not be similar
to the subdivisions Mr. Berling referred to. Another concern was that the
residents of Hogreffe Road would have to submit a portion of their front yards
to widen the road. In closing, Mr. Scarton commented that he was not totally
opposed to expansion or development, he just wanted it to be consistent to
other quality homes in the area. He also stated that a four-lane road would be
necessary to accommodate the increase in traffic. Mr. Scarton encouraged
council to familiarize themselves with this area before coming to a decision on
this development.
11.   Teresa Kampsen, 991 Maher Road, addressed council regarding her
opposition to the proposed zone change. She stated that currently there is no
density in that area that is close to the one proposed and cited the Northern
Kentucky & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission’s disapproval of a zone
change request on two occasions. She stated that the proposed development and
zone change would drastically change this area and urged council to not permit
more than two houses per acre.
12.   Tom Messamer, 520 Hogreffe Road stated that he lives directly across the
proposed development site. He stated that he too agrees with the views
expressed in Mr. Platek’s letter to the city. He stated that he opposes being
annexed into the city, as he sees no benefits to it. He stated the city would
be annexing vacant land with the only people benefiting from this would be the
developers. He feels that as a property owner abutting this proposed
development he should have a say into this matter. Mr. Messamer stated that the
adjoining properties were not included in the annexation.
13.   Karla Palmer, 979 Maher Road stated that she is not opposed to
development in the area, just that she feels the development should be done
responsibly. She stated that the proposed zone change is not consistent with
the current zoning. She stated that the developers are not listening to the
residents in this area; the people that will be most affected by this
development. Ms. Palmer urged council to not allow the proposed development as
planned, but to insist on a higher density zone.
14.   Roger C. Bales, 801 Hogreffe Road, stated that he was born and raised in
Independence and has observed the growth over the years. As a property owner of
over forty years, he urged council to stick with the Planning Commission’s
recommendation to disapprove this zone change. He encouraged “smart growth”
with regard to the infrastructure, if not, he had concern that the ability to
commute would become stifled.
END - PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
1st Reading Proposed Ordinance – Amending Zoning Map for Areas Along Bristow,
Maher & Hogreffe Roads
15.   Mayor Kriege pointed out that the city was prepared to have a first
reading of a proposed ordinance that would amend the zoning map for this
development. He stated that a second reading and enactment could be held at a
future meeting of council. City Attorney, Lawson Walker explained the process
involved with approving this zone change. He advised that council could have a
first reading tonight but that it would take four council members present and
voting for the second reading of the ordinance. Mr. Kudera expressed concern
that a quorum of council was not present. Mr. Walker stated that a quorum
existed at the start of the meeting, but that two council members excused
themselves from the discussion and action due to a possible conflict of
interest. Mr. Walker stated that a quorum would be necessary for a second
reading of the ordinance.
16.   Mayor Kriege called for a motion on a first reading of the ordinance and
stated that a second reading would be possible later this month or at the next
regular meeting of council on May 6, 2002. Mr. Kudera asked if there would be a
discussion called before a second reading. Mayor Kriege replied yes.
17.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a first reading of an ordinance amending
the zoning map of the city that would change the following areas:
§   Area “A” - approximately 84 acres located along the south side of Bristow
Road, approximately 2,700 feet east of Banklick Road from R-1C (county zone) to
R-1C (city zone); and
§   Area “B” - approximately 54 acres located at the northeast corner of the
intersection of Banklick Road with Maher Road from A-1 and R-RE toR-1D; and
§   Area “C” - approximately 72 acres located along the north side of Maher
Road, across from Graven Road from A-1 and R-RE to R-1D; and
§   Area “D” - approximately 59 acres located along the south side of Hogreffe
Road, approximate 1,800 feet west of the new Hogreffe connector road, from A-
1 and R-1B to R-1D; and
§   Area “E” - approximately 175 acres located along the north side of Maher
Road, at the Boone/Kenton County border, from A-1, R-1B, R-1C (RCD) and I-1 to
R-1F.
18.   Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Motion carried with two yes votes and
one no vote cast by Mr. Dupps. Mr. Walker again explained the procedures to the
audience regarding this zone change ordinance. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
19.   Mayor Kriege stated the city would place a notice in the newspaper if a
special meeting is scheduled. He stated there might be a special meeting called
in April or early May. An audience member asked if the audience would be able
to address council at the next meeting. Mayor Kriege stated yes. An audience
member expressed some confusion regarding the council members that recused
themselves from the discussion and vote. Mr. Walker spent some time trying to
clarify the situation to the audience members. He advised that when two members
of council recuse themselves from voting that it is counted with the majority
vote. He explained that the majority of the quorum that existed at the
beginning of the meeting was present for the first reading but that it will
take four votes to pass the second reading of the ordinance.
15.   Before continuing with the agenda, Mayor Kriege asked that Mr. Gabbard
and Mr. Ellison be told that the discussion regarding the annexation issue had
ended. Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Ellison re-entered the meeting room and participated
in the rest of the meeting.
Ordinance Number 2002-O-06 – Amending the 2001/02 Budget – 2nd Reading
16.   Mayor Kriege referred to Mr. Wendling’s memo outlining the reasons for
the proposed amendments to the 2001/02 fiscal year budget. Mr. Wendling
reviewed the memo with council and advised the amendments were due to increased
health insurance costs, expenses associated with zoning administration, which
had been underestimated, PVA assessment was higher than anticipated, the Dog
Control Authority contract raised their rates, increased insurance costs for
the police, difference in audited fund balances, Senior Center revenues and
expenditures and the proposed Municipal Center revenues and expenditures.
17.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to have a second reading and adopt the amended
budget ordinance for 2001/02. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. There was a brief
discussion with further explanation of the amendments. Roll call was answered
with four yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard citing that he opposed
the Municipal Center revenue. Motion carried 4-1 in favor and Mr. Walker read
the ordinance.
Discussion Regarding the Purchase of Taylor Smith Property at 5407 Madison Pike
18.   Mayor Kriege informed council that funds to purchase the Taylor Smith
property would need to be split between the Building Fund and the Municipal
Center Fund accounts. He stated that the Building Fund account balance is not
sufficient to cover the full amount of the purchase of this property. He
proposed withdrawing $75,000 from the Building Fund and the remainder of the
purchase price from the Municipal Center Fund bond proceeds.
19.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to purchase the Taylor Smith property at 5407
Madison Pike from the Municipal Center Fund; Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion.
A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Gabbard asked if the city has closed on the
$5,000,000 loan for the Municipal Center project. Mayor Kriege replied that the
loan was closed last week. Mr. Ellison asked what the balance was of the
Building Fund. Mayor Kriege stated the balance was $12,500.00 as a portion
($75,000) was allocated as part of the purchase price of the Smith property. He
stated that the full purchase price of the property would have been taken from
the Building Fund but there was not a sufficient balance to do so. Mr. Wendling
stated the entire amount was not available as certain funds are obligated to
the amphitheater. Mr. Ellison stated that it is his understanding that the
amphitheater funds were donated and expressed his concern that there are not
adequate funds for the purchase of the Smith property from the Building Fund.
Mayor Kriege explained that unforeseen expenses for the Senior Center project
were paid for out of the Building Fund. Mr. Ellison asked if the property has
already been purchased. Mayor Kriege stated the closing on the property would
take place tomorrow. Roll call was answered with three yes votes and two no
votes cast by Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Ellison. Motion carried 3-2 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-07 – Amending Flag Lot Ordinance No. 1999-O-11 – Second
Reading
20.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a second reading of Ordinance No. 2002-
O-07 to approve and adopt regulations regarding flag lots. Mr. Ellison seconded
the motion. Mr. Walker read the ordinance. Mr. Walker explained that this
ordinance would permit flag lots on the condition that it contains the minimum
lot width at the minimum front yard setback line. He advised that every flag
lot would have to be one and one-half times the minimum lot area and width
contained within the area and height regulations for each respective zone. Mr.
Dupps asked for a definition of a minimum lot width. Mr. Walker explained that
a flag lot would have to be 75 feet wide and one hundred fifty percent of the
square foot minimum in that particular zone. He stated that the setback is how
you define the flag lot size. Mr. Ellison commented that this ordinance should
stop the cul-de-sac flag lots in subdivisions and these homes tend to become
retention areas. He stated this ordinance should address that problem and at
the same time assist residents with large lots that would like to subdivide.
Mr. Dupps asked if this ordinance addresses the problem for the resident who
originally came to council requesting this amendment. Mr. Wendling stated that
that resident might have to redraw the lot lines, but that this amendment
should meet his needs. Mr. Ellison advised that the resident would need to
apply for a map amendment with the Northern Kentucky and Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission for approval. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and
one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
21.   Mr. Wendling reported that the current contract with Rumpke for trash
pickup would expire at the end of this month, but that they have agreed to
extend the contract through June 30, 2002. He stated that the contract has been
put out for bids and the bids have been received by the city and will be
presented at the next council meeting. He stated that he would like to get this
contract on a fiscal year schedule in order to accommodate the budget cycle.
22.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve a two-month extension of the current
contract with Rumpke for trash pickup; seconded by Mr. Dupps. No roll call;
motion carried unanimously.
23.   Mayor Kriege stated that the bids for trash pickup would be tabulated and
presented to council next month to award the bid. Mr. Gabbard asked how many
bids were received. Mr. Wendling stated that three bids were received; from
Rumpke, CSI and Bavarian.
24.   Mr. Ellison expressed some concern about the status of the Marion
Schadler Park in the Lakefield Subdivision. He stated that he appreciates Mr.
Wendling’s protecting the city’s interests, but feels the city should assist
Drees in getting the park development completed. Mayor Kriege reported that the
steps and drainage problems are currently being attended to and stated that the
city could not accept maintenance of this area until these matters were
resolved. Mr. Ellison reiterated that he felt that Drees has been willing to
work out an agreement with the city and have allocated funds into this project
and he would like to see the city lend a hand in an effort to get the park
completed. Mayor Kriege stated that liability issues existed that had to be
resolved before the city agrees to take over maintenance.
25.   Mr. Wendling stated that he met with Drees representatives and it was
their suggestion to remove the steps entirely and not replace them. Mr. Ellison
felt the removal of the steps would eliminate access to the upper part of the
subdivision. A discussion ensued regarding the easement that was obtained for
the installation of the steps. Mr. Ellison also feels the city can assist the
development of the park with other things, like signage, installing parking
curbs, and sowing grass. Mayor Kriege stated that the city is working with
Drees, but the weather has delayed some progress. Mr. Ellison stated there is
$3,500 in the capital improvements budget. Ms. Brake informed council that
those funds have been allocated for the installation of a water line.
26.   Mr. Moriconi wondered if the adjoining property owners would attain the
easement land since the stairs will not be replaced. Mayor Kriege stated the
property owners already own the easement area, as it is an overlay. He went on
to say that the hillside is very steep and the city is considering planting
crown vetch in that area to discourage foot traffic on this hill. Mr. Kudera
commented that he does not feel the removal of the steps will hinder access to
the park. Mr. Dupps asked who would own the hillside. Mayor Kriege stated this
area would be part of the park that the city will take over maintenance.
27.   Mayor Kriege asked council how they wanted to proceed. Mr. Ellison made a
motion to retain the easement for the stairway that is platted on the Marion
Schadler Park land; seconded by Mr. Gabbard. Roll call was answered with two
yes votes and three no votes cast by Mr. Dupps, Mr. Kudera and Mr. Moriconi.
Further discussion ensued. Mr. Dupps felt that developers sometimes want to
install a path after they see what paths gradually evolve from use by the
residents. Mr. Ellison stated the easement is laid out between two property
lines. Mr. Dupps suggested the Building and Recreation Committee work on
resolving this matter. Mayor Kriege felt this should be decided now as Drees
has been instructed to remove the stairway. Mr. Wendling stated that the park
should be completed by mid-April. Mr. Moriconi stated the stairway was a
complete disaster and expressed concern that it will be difficult for Drees to
market a property that has an easement that kids will use on a regular basis to
access the park. He stated that this easement basically goes nowhere and feels
it will become overgrown with weeds.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
28.   Mayor Kriege stated the committee would meet on April 15, 2002 to review
the budget for next year before presenting it to council at the next regular
meeting.
Building & Recreation Committee
29.   Mr. Moriconi stated the committee met with Cole+Russell Architects to
review the progress on the plans for the new Municipal Center. He stated the
next meeting will be on April 23, 2002
Personnel & Administration Committee
30.   Mayor Kriege stated the committee would meet next week.
Planning & Zoning Committee
31.   Chairman, Mr. Ellison stated the committee did not meet last month.
Public Safety Committee
32.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps stated the committee met on March 26, 2002. He stated
the committee reviewed the Police Annual Report, which has been published and
is available. He stated that there are twenty-five participants in the four
class of the Citizen’s Police Academy. He stated the alumni continue to raise
funds to help programs such as D.A.R.E., etc. He stated the committee reviewed
the calls for service, which has seen an increase of three percent over the
last year. Mr. Dupps reported that the police department has met with the
Kenton County Board of Education to pursue funding for the Resource Officer
Program. He stated this is a continued effort to continue this program since
the department did not receive funding from the state. He reported that the
department will be participating in Simon Kenton High School Project Prom on
April 12, 2002 and are in the process of planning for security during the July
4th Celebration.
Public Works
33.   Chairman, Mr. Gabbard stated the next meeting of this committee is set
for May 8, 2002.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
34.   Mayor Kriege reported he will meet with the Budget and Finance Committee
sometime in mid-April to review the budget and prepare for council and it’s
adoption.
35.   He reported that the annual Police Department/Fire District basketball
game would be held at Simon Kenton High School.
36.   Mayor Kriege advised that the City Attorney has presented a letter to
council detailing the status of litigation the city is currently involved in.
Adjournment
37.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Gabbard the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:23 p.m.
___________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
City of Independence, Kentucky
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MAY 6, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Bill Clark from the Hickory Grove Baptist Church gave the
invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard,
Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance was City
Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the April 1, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of April 1, 2002 as submitted. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered with five yes votes and one pass vote cast by Mr. Gabbard.
Motion carried.
Introduction of New Police Officer, Amy Schworer
3.   Shawn Butler, Chief of Police introduced the newly hired police officer,
Amy Schworer. He stated that Officer Schworer is transferring from the City of
Fort Wright to Independence and comes highly recommended.
Agenda Amendment
4.   Mayor Kriege announced that Scott Layman of Cole + Russell Architects was
unable to attend the meeting to present a site rendering for the new municipal
center. He stated that Mr. Layman would be rescheduled to next month’s meeting.
Discussion Regarding the Zone Change Request for the Unincorporated Area near
Hogreffe Road
5.   Mayor Kriege announced to the assemblage that this meeting was not a
public hearing and that any decision made at this meeting must be decided based
on the facts that were presented at the public hearing held by the Kenton
County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission. He stated that Mr. Chuck
Berling was not present to review the proposed development plan for the
property for which a zone change has been requested but advised council that
they could proceed with a first reading of the proposed ordinance to approve
the zone change. City Attorney, Lawson Walker explained the procedures to
council.
6.   Council Member, Mr. Gabbard recused himself from the discussion of this
matter citing a possible conflict of interest and left the room during the
discussion. Mr. Bushong questioned this action by Mr. Gabbard. Mr. Walker
advised that there is no legal reason that would require Mr. Gabbard to leave
the room during the discussion and that Mr. Gabbard is free to do so. He stated
that Mr. Gabbard is also within his rights to recuse himself and refrain from
voting on this matter.
7.   Mayor Kriege advised that council would be considering the acceptance of
property parcels A & B, rejecting parcels C & D and denying parcel E. Mayor
Kriege acknowledged the audience and stated that he would allow everyone an
opportunity to address council concerning this matter. Mr. Walker explained in
detail the parcels of land that council would be considering for this zone
change request. He stated that in Exhibit A, the property along the south side
of Bristow Road between Banklick Road would be rezoned from R-1C (county) to R-
1C (city). He stated that the county and city zone requirements differ but that
the density is the same. The proposed change would rezone the parcel to R-1C
city conditions. Mr. Walker advised that Exhibit B would rezone the property
along the northeast corner of the intersection of Banklick Road and Maher Road
from A-1 and R-RE to R-1D. He stated the last two changes along Maher Road and
Hogreffe Road would change from A-1, R-RE and R-1B zones to an R-1D zone. He
stated there is no mention of Exhibit E, which had an R-1F and advised that if
that tract of land were annexed in the future then it would come into the city
as the current zone. Mayor Kriege stated that if council decides to approve
Exhibits C & D then the city would override the recommendation from the
Planning Commission to deny this zone change request. He advised that the
Planning Commission has also recommended disapproval of the zone change request
for Exhibit E. He stated that council would not be voting on this ordinance at
this meeting, as this would just be a first reading. He stated that the final
vote and possible adoption of this ordinance would come at the June council
meeting.
8.   Mr. Moriconi referred to the ordinance presented at the last council
meeting and asked if they would be starting over with the ordinance presented
tonight. Mr. Walker replied that changes were made to the previous ordinance
and the ordinance presented at this meeting reflects those changes and would
require a first reading. Mayor Kriege stated that the current ordinance
excludes the R-1F zone. He reiterated that there would be no vote on this first
reading and that action on this ordinance would take place at the regular June
council meeting. Mayor Kriege stated that basically this is a new start for
this ordinance.
9.   Mayor Kriege opened the floor to citizen comments on this subject.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
10.   Frank Platek, 732 Hogreffe Road, spoke in opposition to the re-zone
request. He stated that the Planning Commission has revisited this zone change
request on four other separate occasions and all four times has denied the
requests. He called attention to net versus gross acreage and stated that the
developer contradicted himself at the last council meeting with regard to
density. He stated that the area is currently undergoing heavy road
construction and that Hogreffe Road is in poor condition due to the heavy
equipment being used. He also expressed concern over the Glenhurst site area
and the current condition. He expressed dissatisfaction with the quality of the
homes proposed and the open area being converted to this density level with
less than quality structures. Mr. Platek cited that sites B and C narrow to a
pinpoint that enables sites C and D to be part of this development but was
concerned that realistically the areas are not connected and are not
functional. In closing, Mr. Platek stated that the annexation boundaries
totally exclude current residents. He stated that if the proposed property is
annexed the excluded residents will have to call county police if there is a
problem with a neighboring city resident. He also had a strong concern that the
only access for some current residents in the area will be the county road as
they will be surrounded by city areas. He stated that he feels this was done
purposely as current residents would have the power to have this annexation put
on the general election ballot that would require 51% approval to override the
annexation attempt by the city. He urged council to do the right thing by
denying this zone change.
11.   Tom Messamer, 520 Hogreffe Road, stated that he agreed with Mr. Platek
but added that he does not wish to be annexed by the city.
12.   Teresa Kampsen, 991 Maher Road, Walton, Kentucky stated she was in
agreement with Mr. Platek’s comments and had nothing new to add.
13.   Ron Yarnell, 320 Independence Station Road, was concerned about
accountability and who was going to take responsibility for all the debris from
the roadwork construction that is building up in the Banklick Creek. Mayor
Kriege advised that maybe the State was responsible for this. Mr. Yarnell asked
if a fund would be set up by the developers for any future problems that may
arise due to the development. Mayor Kriege advised him that the developer is
required to adhere to water retention requirements. Mr. Yarnell expressed
concerns that all the development in the area is changing Banklick Creek. Mayor
Kriege stated that the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission might be able
to address his concerns.
14.   Jerry Palmer, 979 Maher Road, Walton, Kentucky voiced his agreement with
Mr. Platek’s comments and added that he is concerned that all this development
is surrounding the farms in the area and forcing the farmers to move out of
Kenton County. He fears that the farmland will not survive all the residential/
commercial development.
15.   Sherry Carran, 927 Forest, Covington, Kentucky stated that she is a
member of the “Smart Growth Coalition” and that she attended the public hearing
at the Kenton County and Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission’s meeting.
She stated that the proposed development is an example of a compact
development, which is supported by the Coalition. She stated that the Glenhurst
development on Maher Road has ignored the creek area, which is the sites best
feature. Ms. Carran expressed concern about who would be maintaining the
detention ponds. She stated that other green space has been used for utility
lines and that the roads are not good. Mayor Kriege stated that the city is not
considering the site she is referring to. Ms. Carran urged council to make a
closer review of compact developments, as they need to be refined.
16.   In closing, Ms. Carran questioned Mr. Walker’s conflict of interest to
advise council on this matter since he was the attorney for the Glenhurst
Development. Mr. Walker made clear that at the onset he publicly disclosed at
the last council meeting that he was the former attorney for the Glenhurst
Development. He reiterated that he no longer represents this business and that
he has basically just drafted the documents the city has requested from him.
Map Amendment Approving Zone Change for Unincorporated Areas along Bristow,
Hogreffe & Maher Roads – 1st Reading
17.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Moriconi there was a first
reading of the proposed ordinance to approve a map amendment for a zone change
for unincorporated area along Bristow Road, Hogreffe Road and Maher Roads.
Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Ellison clarified his favorable vote by
making a formal statement. In his statement he indicated that he would no
longer remain silent on the Glenhurst LLC 464-acre proposed annexation, because
his brother-in-law, Joe Arlinghaus is one of the builder/developers. He stated
that Mr. Arlinghaus has been his brother-in-law longer than he has been in the
land development/house building business. He stated that since he is not
employed by any of the Glenhurst builder/developers and would not receive any
financial benefits that he felt he would be usurping his elected duties as a
councilperson to remain silent on this issue before council and therefore has
decided to cast his vote to represent the citizens of Independence. Motion
carried 5-0 in favor and Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance by title only.
18.   Mayor Kriege advised the second reading would be on the agenda for the
regular council meeting on June 3, 2002 unless a special council meeting is
called before that date.
19.   Before continuing with the agenda, Mayor Kriege asked that Mr. Gabbard be
told that the discussion regarding the annexation issue had ended. Mr. Gabbard
re-entered the meeting room and participated in the rest of the meeting
Discussion Regarding Map Amendment for Zone Change for Flanagan Property at
5460 Madison Pike
20.   Due to the number of people in attendance regarding the zoning issues on
the agenda, Mayor Kriege moved up the discussion regarding the zone change
request for the Flanagan property at 5460 Madison Pike. Mayor Kriege advised
that the Kenton County and Municipal Planning Commission have rejected this
zone change request at their May 2, 2002 meeting; he stated it was rejected
based on NKAPC staff recommendation. Mayor Kriege allowed the developers to
make a presentation.
21.   Mr. David Wallace, with Cors and Bassett law firm, represented developer
Mike Helson. Mr. Wallace stated that the public hearing for the zone change was
held last week and they will not introduce any new facts as he feels the
evidence stands for itself. He stated they are requesting a zone change for an
approximate 36 acre tract of land located along the east side of Madison Pike
between Walnut Hall Drive and Harris Pike from R-1C (single family residential)
to NC (neighborhood commercial). He stated the property is currently bordered
by Route 17 and will be bordered by the new section of Route 17 to be
constructed in the future. He stated the zone change was denied by the KC&MP&Z
Commission primarily because it is not consistent with the recommended land use
map of the 2001 Comprehensive Plan nor the concept o a community service area
as defined in the Comprehensive Plan. He argued that the courts in Kentucky say
it is recommended. Mr. Wallace stated that the current residential zone of R-1C
permits a density ranging from 7.1 to 14.0 dwelling units per net acre and no
one in the area thinks there is a need for more apartments since there
currently are ample apartment units vacant in the development behind Krogers.
He stated the real need is for commercial development to help build the tax
base in the city. Mr. Moriconi asked if any of the proposed development would
include some multi family buildings. Mr. Wallace stated no, that it would all
be neighborhood commercial. Mr. Moriconi asked if the development would tap
into the sewer system. Mr. Murphy, engineer for the proposed development,
replied that the Sanitation District main lines are north of the property and
that a force main backup could be constructed in the vicinity of the cemetery
and St. Cecilia Church along Route 17. Mr. Gabbard asked what types of
commercial businesses would occupy this development. The engineer responded
that the front units would house restaurants and the rear units would have
generic office space. Mr. Gabbard asked if the office space would house
business headquarters, etc. Mr. Helson stated that professional office space
for doctors, etc. Mr. Gabbard asked if gas/service stations would be part of
the development. The developer’s engineer stated that service stations are
considered conditional uses and this type of building would need to go before
the city’s Board of Adjustment for approval.
22.   Mr. Kudera asked if they had considered developing at the Towne Center.
Mr. Helson stated that he had considered it but that the property has deed
restrictions. He stated that he feels they have clients that would come to
Independence if office space were available. Mr. Gabbard stated that he would
not be in favor of any development in the area that did not include plans for a
large buffer between the current residential properties. He asked if they have
included buffer plans. Mr. Helson stated that sidewalks and landscaping
requirements would be adhered to. Mr. Moriconi expressed concern for the steep
topography of the site area. Mr. Helson stated the state highway department
would be taking six acres of the land for the reconstruction of Route 17 and
they are currently negotiating with them to obtain fill dirt. He stated they
would also get topsoil from the rear of the property if necessary. Mr. Wendling
asked how they planned to restore that area. He stated they would bring in
topsoil.
23.   Mr. Kudera asked Mr. Helson if he had experience in this kind of
development that council could look at. Mr. Mike Brandy began to distribute a
client list to the council members. An audience member objected to this, citing
that this list was not introduced at the public hearing held by the Kenton
County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission. City Attorney, Mr. Walker
advised council that this list could not be considered and Mr. Brandy retrieved
the list from council. The attorney for Mr. Helson stated that without a public
hearing held by the city, further discussion on the zone change request would
be limited. Based on this, Mayor Kriege proposed a public hearing be held on
another date.
24.   Mr. Dan Koch, 29 Walnut Hall Drive, stated that he has been a resident
for thirty-nine years. He voiced objection that the City Administrator, Mr.
Wendling attended the public hearing held by the Planning Commission to speak
on behalf of the city. He stated that he felt Mr. Wendling did not have the
authority to speak on the city’s behalf, but was told by Mr. Wendling that the
Mayor had instructed him to attend that meeting. Mayor Kriege confirmed that he
did send Mr. Wendling to the meeting to act as the city’s representative. He
also stated that it has no relevance on the matter, as it will be the council
that will decide whether this development is approved or not. He stated that
the Kenton County & Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission as well as the
Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission have rejected the development plan.
He reiterated to council that they could set a date for a public hearing by the
city.
25.   Mr. Ellison commented that Mr. Wendling attended the Planning
Commission’s public hearing to represent the city and to obtain information for
council as to whether this development plan was feasible for the city, but was
not there to cast a vote for the city.
26.   Mr. Helson’s attorney stated that the city could hold another public
hearing, but felt that there is no additional evidence that would be heard to
cause council to disapprove the development plan. He expressed confidence that
there is plenty of evidence to support the plan.
27.   Mayor Kriege asked council what they would like to do. Mr. Moriconi
expressed an interest in obtaining more information regarding the development
plan. Mr. Gabbard stated he would like the city to hold a public hearing.
28.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to obtain the minutes of the public hearing for
the development plan for the Flanagan property on Madison Pike and to schedule
a date for a city public hearing on this zone change request. Mr. Dupps
seconded the motion. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in
favor. Mayor Kriege stated that a date would be set for the public hearing and
the public would be notified.
Proposal by Martin Butler to Amend the Zoning Ordinance to Include an RC-2 Zone
29.   Mr. Martin Butler made a presentation to council on behalf of his client,
Bill Dehlinger, to encourage council to amend the current zoning ordinance by
adding an RC-2 zone. He stated his client is currently interested in property
located at the intersection of Richardson and Crowe Roads. He stated this six
acre parcel of land is currently zoned R-1A. He stated the need for this area
is for commercial and other appropriate uses for this area, which are not
currently in the city’s zoning text. He distributed a draft text to council for
their review. He stated that he prepared this document and that he has had it
reviewed by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission. He commented that
other areas in the city could benefit from this zone and stated that the
proposed text would require that a zone change request be made of council,
thereby allowing council to keep this type of development under their control.
Mr. Butler requested that council take the initial step to adopt this text
amendment tonight and submitting it later for a final vote.
30.   Mayor Kriege advised council that the first step in implementing Mr.
Butler’s request would be to add this zone text to the zoning ordinance and the
second step would be for Mr. Butler to request a zone change for property. Mr.
Butler stated the he would like to make separate applications concurrently.
Mayor Kriege asked what type of development Mr. Dehlinger had planned for the
areas. Mr. Butler replied office warehouse storage and/or light assembly type
of facilities. He stated that a body shop is across the road.
31.   Mr. Gabbard commented on a problem the city had with a Dehlinger
Development off of Turkeyfoot Road. He stated that a core sample taken from the
street on Fox Run Drive did not meet specifications. There was a brief
discussion regarding this matter with the City Engineer, Dave Whitacre. Mr.
Gabbard stated that he would not vote for approval of another development by
Mr. Dehlinger when there are unresolved problems in his current developments.
Mr. Butler stated that he could not respond to this, as he had no knowledge of
this matter. Mr. Gabbard stated there were improper core samples and depth of
the street, Fox Run Drive. Mr. Butler stated he would bring this matter to the
attention of Mr. Dehlinger.
32.   Mr. Moriconi asked if the Richardson Road/Crowe Road area was in the
flood plain. Mr. Butler stated that this was one of his concerns also and has
learned that this area is not in the flood plain. Mr. Kudera asked how the
development would be accessed and if it would be necessary to use the old
bridge. Mr. Butler stated it would be accessed by Old Richardson Road and the
bridge would not be traveled.
33.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Walker how council should proceed. Mr. Walker
stated the text amendment would need approval from council and would not be
binding when it comes back for a final approval on the recommendation from the
Planning Commission. Mr. Ellison commented that this request was presented to
the Planning and Zoning Committee and the text has been drafted as promised. He
recommended that the city make application for the text amendment with the City
Administrator representing the city in this matter.
34.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to make application to the Kenton County &
Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission for a text amendment to the zoning
ordinance to add the R-C2 zone, with Mr. Wendling representing the city in this
matter. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Mr. Dupps asked how close this
planned development was to residential areas. Mr. Butler stated that there is a
three to four football fields distance. Mr. Ellison stated that the property
would not be conducive to residential development. Roll call was answered with
four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Dupps. Motion
carried 4-2 in favor.
Discussion Regarding Memorial Park Amphitheater – Rendering Submitted by
Charles Deters
35.   Mr. Charles Deters presented to council a proposed design for Memorial
Park and the amphitheater. He stated that, at his own expense, he worked with
architect, Robert Hayes to re-design a master plan for Memorial Park. He stated
that this plan provides a vehicle roadway, which he feels, is critical for
access to all twenty-seven acres and will enable the city to develop the entire
park. He stated that currently only the front edges of the park have been
developed. He stated that this architect rendering provides for handicap
parking near the amphitheater, fixed seating and lawn seating for approximately
1000 viewers. He stated this amphitheater would be great for city events, like
concerts and the July 4th Celebration. Mr. Gabbard agreed that something more
is needed for the park. Mr. Moriconi asked if Mr. Deters’ plan would involve
moving the current shelter and playground equipment. He replied that the
equipment might need to be moved. He stated that this proposed placement of the
amphitheater faces the south and will accommodate a greater number of viewers
that the original suggested site for the facility. Mr. Deters stated that
another positive feature for this site would be that it provides a cost savings
measure for the sewer system for both the amphitheater and the new city
building. This way only one pump and force main would be necessary to service
both buildings. He stated that the city might need to acquire an area of land
from Peach Drive for another access road to the park. Mayor Kriege advised the
Building and Recreation Committee would discuss the proposal, as the issue of
providing access to the amphitheater has not been addressed. Mayor Kriege
thanked Mr. Deters for presenting this plan for the park and stated that it is
a step in the right direction.
Discussion Regarding the Kentucky Renaissance Program
36.   Mrs. Barbara Gabbard, 5140 Madison Pike, addressed council regarding the
status of the Renaissance Program. Mayor Kriege advised Mrs. Gabbard that
currently the city holds the Bronze level and that due to budgetary restraints
there were no plans to apply for the next level. Mrs. Gabbard asked how long
the city had to apply for the next level. Mrs. Nita Brake responded that the
city had until September 2002 to apply for the Silver level. Mrs. Gabbard
stated that the Renaissance program provides an 80% return on the city’s money
and she urged council to find the $8,000 - $10,000 from the proposed budget
that is needed to reach the Silver level. She felt it would be worthwhile to
divert funds from other areas in the budget to get an 80% return on the city
money, funds that could be used for sidewalk projects, etc. She stated she has
spoken to some of the businesses in the area that have voiced support for this
program. Mr. Wendling advised that the Silver level status would require the
city to hire an employee whose sole job duty would be to administer the
program. In closing, Mrs. Gabbard encouraged council to follow through with
this program. She felt it would be a shame not to revitalize the downtown area.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment permitting Indoor Horse Arena/Riding
Stables – 1st Reading
37.   Mayor Kriege presented a proposed ordinance that would amend the text of
the zoning ordinance that would add horse stables and indoor riding arenas to
the list of conditional uses, with certain restrictions within residential
zones.
38.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed
ordinance; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Gabbard
stated he spoke with a representative from the Kenton County Cooperative
Extension office that suggested that no more than fifteen horses housed per
barn and that there should be 1-1/2 to 2 acres of grazing land per horse. He
asked council if they wanted to address these recommendations. Mr. Wendling
stated he discussed this with the animal shelter that requires a license that
would require periodic inspections of the premises. Mayor Kriege stated that
Section C, Number 10 addresses this concern. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
Discussion Regarding Right to Paw Paw Drive
39.   Dianne Stull, 651 Sycamore Drive, addressed council regarding her request
to have the rights to Paw Paw Drive turned back over to her. She stated that
several years ago she handed over the roadway rights to the city. She stated
that she has left several messages and has talked to the city engineer who
assures her that all the paper work is in order and that he has turned it all
over to the city. She stated that she has maintained this area of road between
Skyway and Sycamore for sometime and would now like to blacktop the area, as it
has never been used as a road. Mayor Kriege asked the city engineer, Dave
Whitacre to research this matter with the city administrator and then make a
recommendation to council.
40.   Mr. Ellison asked that the Scherry Drive matter be reviewed, also. Mayor
Kriege asked Mr. Whitacre to obtain the information for the committee to
review.
Resolution No. 2002-R-09 Authorizing Mayor to Sign Agreement For Body Armor
Program
41.   Mayor Kriege presented a resolution to council for approval that would
authorize him to sign a Memorandum of Agreement and any other document enabling
the Department for Local Government to initiate the process for providing the
funding for the Kentucky Body Armor Program to be utilized by sworn peace
officers of the city.
42.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to read and approve Resolution No. 2002-R-09;
seconded by Mr. Dupps. Mr. Walker read the resolution. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2002-EO-01 Appointing Elizabeth Patterson to the Senior
Board of Directors
43.   Mayor Kriege submitted Executive Order No. 2002-EO-01 for council’s
approval to appoint Elizabeth Patterson to the Senior Center Board of
Directors. Motion made by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps to approve the
Executive Order. Motion carried with five ayes and one no vote cast by Mr.
Gabbard.
Resolution No. 2002-R-10 Approving the CDBG Payment of Monthly Expense for the
Senior Center
44.   Mayor Kriege advised that approval of this payment to Mark Spaulding
Construction is the last payment for the construction of the Senior Center and
represents the retainage portion. He stated that all unresolved concerns have
now been settled and recommends this final payment.
45.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Kudera, Resolution No. 2002-
R-10 was read and approved. Mr. Walker read the resolution; roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Discussion Regarding Bids Received for Contract of Trash Collection in the City
46.   Mayor Kriege remarked that representatives from the three trash
collection companies that bid on this contract were in attendance and moved
this item of discussion up on the agenda.
47.   Mr. Wendling stated that the city received three bids for trash
collection. The bidders are Rumpke of Northern Kentucky, Bavarian and CSI. He
reviewed the bid tabulation presented to council in their packets. He explained
that the city requested that bids be presented for four options. The options
included: once per week pickup; once per week pickup plus one curbside
recycling pickup; twice per week pickup; and twice per week pickup plus one
curbside recycling pickup. Mr. Wendling stated that CSI was the low bidder at
the once per week pickup; Rumpke was the low bidder for the twice per week
pickup; CSI was the low bidder for the once per week pickup plus once per week
curbside recycling. He also pointed out that CSI’s automated pickup was the
lowest of all the bids. He stated that automated pickup provides all homeowners
with a waste container and that special size pickups would need to be phoned
ahead. He advised that plastic bags left at the curb would not be picked up.
Mr. Wendling stated that the company representatives could answer any questions
council had.
48.   A lengthy discussion ensued. Mr. Moriconi directed his attention to CSI
with concerns regarding the requirement for a 95-gallon container, especially
for the elderly, and items that would not fit into a container. He also
wondered why CSI was interested in recommending automated pickup in
Independence since that type of pickup was not prevalent in this area of the
country. He also asked if automated pickup would impose parking restrictions on
pickup day. CSI representatives responded to Mr. Moriconi’s concerns. They
stated that three sizes of containers were available for the automated pickup –
95-gallon, 65-gallon, and 35-gallon, which would be more suited for the
elderly. CSI advised that automated trucks are one-man operated vehicles that
are only eighteen inches off the ground and the operator can get out of the
truck if necessary to retrieve items by hand. CSI stated they would like to
introduce automated pickup in this area and offers it as an effort to control
costs. CSI recommended that the council members view the video that has been
provided to the city on automation pickup. They advised that the automation
style of pickup is demonstrated and thoroughly explained on the video.
49.   Mr. Gabbard asked how branches would be picked up. CSI stated that
automation pickup is offered as a cheaper alternative, but that the city may
want to continue with the standard type pickup. Mr. Gabbard also expressed
concern with trash service beginning earlier than 7:00 a.m. He stated during
the current five year contract with Rumpke they have routinely picked up the
trash in front of his home on Madison Pike as early as 5:00 a.m. causing a
disturbance to the residents. CSI stated that they would abide by the bid specs
that require trash pickup to begin no earlier than 7:00 a.m. Greg Rumpke
responded to Mr. Gabbard’s grievance by stating the Independence Police
Department had requested his company to pickup along Madison Pike early, before
rush hour traffic gets heavy. Mr. Gabbard replied that the Police Department
did not have the authority of council. Mr. Wendling stated that he was not
aware of complaints in this area. Mr. Moriconi stated that he understands there
would be a problem with heavy traffic and school buses, etc. if trash was
picked up during the rush hours.
50.   Mayor Kriege advised council that Rumpke, as the current contractor with
the city for trash pickup, has agreed to extend the current contract for May
and June so that the city can get this contract on a fiscal year rotation. Mr.
Rumpke stated that his company has provided service to this city for years and
his company is here to stay in this area. He advised that he is very familiar
with the trash pickup route schedule. He also commented that he felt that one
trash container provided to each resident by CSI for automated pickup would be
inadequate especially at Christmastime.
51.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to award the trash collection contract to CSI
as the lowest and best bid for the two-year period from July 1, 2002 through
June 30, 2004.
52.   Mr. Rumpke commented that the cheapest is not always the best bid, that
people want dependable and on time service. Ms. Christy of CSI responded that
there is a $62,000 annual difference between their bid and Rumpke’s. Mayor
Kriege asked her how she arrived at this figure. She stated that once per week
pickup plus once per week curbside recycling pickup multiplied by twelve equals
$62,000. Mayor Kriege stated the motion to award the bid was for once per week
pickup – no recycling, at an annual cost of $93.60.
53.   Ms. Christy stated that she understands that there is a certain amount of
trepidation in changing from one company to another, but urged council to check
the references they provided the city. She stated that they provided smooth
transitions with Covington, Bellevue and Florence and they will provide quality
customer service to Independence, even on the city premises if so desired. She
stated that mistakes are a human factor, but promised they would provide
customer service reports to monitor their service.
54.   Mr. Ellison suggested the option of the contractor billing the homeowners
directly. Mr. Gabbard stated that he felt the cost was too high. Mr. Ellison
stated that he feels this is an option the city should look at it as the cost
for this service is a pass through cost to the resident. Mr. Gabbard stated
that it is $9.00 more per year for the contractor to bill the resident and he
felt it was not a big deal to add this assessment to the annual tax bill. Mr.
Ellison pointed out that in the long run the amount collected from this
assessment does not equal out due to the bills that go unpaid. Mayor Kriege
commented that having the contractor bill the resident directly was an option.
Mr. Ellison stated that taking this assessment off the tax bills would relieve
the burden of delinquent bills on the property owners who pay their taxes. Mr.
Dupps suggested not picking up the trash of the delinquent tax bills, but then
thought that this could become a problem for the zoning administrator. Mr.
Walker commented that eventually the taxes get paid.
55.   Mr. Gabbard reminded council that he had a motion on the floor for the
Option “A-1” bid. Mr. Moriconi stated this option would cost more for the
residents that recycle. Mr. Gabbard stated that he would be willing to amend
his motion. Mr. Dupps stated that he would second the motion if it were amended
to Option “A-3” for $115.44 (once per week pickup plus once per week curbside
recycling pickup). He stated that he felt more people would recycle if it were
offered universally as this would encourage recycling. There was a brief
discussion regarding individual subscription versus curbside recycling. CSI
stated that recycling makes for a better community, as it will meet guidelines
in the years to come.
56.   Mr. Moriconi asked if the city had to decide this matter tonight. Mayor
Kriege advised that this contract would be awarded anytime before July 1, 2002.
He suggested that the Public Works Committee view the videotape that CSI
provided on automated pickup, and review the three bids received. Mr. Moriconi
expressed concern that other cities (Edgewood, Lakeside Park, Cold Spring and
Alexandria) chose to opt out of the CSI contracts. Ms. Christy responded that
that was 2 ½ years ago when they lost the contracts with Cold Spring and
Alexandria and since then they have a new General Manager and other changes in
staff. She urged council to investigate their current contracts and excellent,
efficient service. Mr. Wendling advised council that he checked all references
and found there were no major issues and that the transition difficulties were
resolved. Mr. Gabbard stated that he is looking strictly at cost and is trying
to ensure the resident gets the lowest cost as long as the service is good.
Rumpke stated that Greg Rumpke has worked in this area for over twenty years
and that the bid submitted was based on the history of pickup in the city. They
stated that Rumpke pays their employees well, provides good benefits and has a
low turnover in staff. CSI encouraged council to try the automated pickup
service.
57.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to table this matter until the Public Works
Committee can review the bids submitted. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried unanimously.
58.   NOTE: Mr. Gabbard’s motion died for lack of a second.
Recess
59.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps a brief recess was
called. Motion carried with all ayes.
60.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Ellison the council meeting
resumed. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Budget for 2002/03 Fiscal year – 1st Reading
61.   Mayor Kriege presented to council his proposed budget for the 2002/03
fiscal year. He stated that the Budget and Finance Committee members reviewed
the proposal and some revisions were made prior to this presentation. He stated
that this budget assumes that the revenue generated from the property tax rate
adopted will be the compensating rate plus four percent and that the payroll
taxes will see a twelve percent increase. He stated that the revenue shows an
overall increase of six percent. He advised that expenses in the administration
budget have been cut by $12,000 and that the police budget is up 5.7% mainly
due to salary increases. He stated the police chief has submitted a new pay
plan for the police department. Mayor Kriege advised that health insurance
costs came in at a thirteen percent increase, which was much lower than
anticipated. He stated that the Public Works budget is up by 12.7% mainly due
to the expenses associated with the Cox Road facility that is being rented from
the Fire District to house the public works equipment. Mayor Kriege stated that
the parks budget is up 18% due to maintenance and operational expenses. He
advised that Municipal Road Aid transfer from the general fund will be $70,000
less than last year and there will be a transfer of $128,894 to the Senior
Center fund. He advised that $240,000 is allocated for road repairs, $150,000
for crack sealing and $70,0000 for storm sewers work including Production
Drive. He stated that no funds have been allocated to the Building Fund. Mayor
Kriege advised that the revenue and expenses budgeted for the Senior Center is
$168,894. The Fowler Creek Sewer Fund expenses will run $409,400 with only
estimated revenue of $386,000, while the Sewer Fund will have revenues of
$259,000 and $20,322 in known expenses. He stated that the budget expenditures
would total $3,403,640 with a fund balance of $1,581,779 on June 30, 2003,
which is six months of reserves or 46% of the budget. Mayor Kriege advised that
the new municipal center revenue would be $4,525,000 with estimated expenses
totaling $3,167,300.
62.   Mayor Kriege advised that this makes up the general and special funds and
that the budget should be adopted prior to July 1, 2002. Mr. Gabbard stated
that he had several questions regarding the budget that Mayor Kriege has
presented but requested to reserve his questions until the next meeting, prior
to the second reading.
63.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to have a first reading of the proposed ordinance
to adopt the budget for the 2002/03 fiscal year; seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Mr.
Walker read the ordinance by title only.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Pay Plan – 1 Reading
64.   Mayor Kriege submitted a Personnel and Pay Classification Plan ordinance
for a first reading. No motion or second; Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
65.   Mr. Wendling stated that he would answer any questions had regarding the
written report he submitted in the council packets.
Award of Contract for Construction of Sidewalks along Delaware Crossing & Jack
Woods Pkwy.
66.   He advised that six bids were received for the construction of sidewalks
on Delaware Crossing and Jack Woods Parkway bordering Memorial Park. Mr.
Whitacre explained that the bid was divided into three sections (or options) so
that partial construction could be awarded if the bids received were over
budget. He stated that the combined options for all three sections have a low
bid of $8,388 from B&S Concrete. He stated that this company has a small crew
but is confident of their work based on a previous sidewalk job he oversaw five
years ago, which he stated has held up well. He stated that B&S would be able
to begin work on this project as soon as weather permits.
67.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to award the contract for the construction of
sidewalks along Delaware Crossing and Jack Woods Parkway to B&S Concrete in the
amount of $8388.00. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. Mr. Ellison asked if the
contract would include backfill, seed and straw. Mr. Whitacre stated that it
would. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Award of Contract for Asphalt Street Overlay Repairs for Far Hills Dr./Stevens
Dr./Klette Road
68.   Mr. Wendling stated that four bids were received for the asphalt overlay
repairs needed for the back end of Far Hills Drive, Stevens Drive and Klette
Road. He stated that the bids were received from Queen City Blacktop, Paul
Michels & Sons, Barret Paving and Quast, Inc. Mr. Whitacre advised that the bid
tabulations, taken as a whole, revealed that Quast, Inc. is the low bidder. He
stated that Barret Paving submitted the lowest bid on Stevens Drive, but
overall was the third highest bidder. He stated the streets were bid separately
so that if they came in over budget the city could repair the individual
streets, as the budget would allow. Mr. Whitacre recommended awarding the bid
as a package since funds were available to do so.
69.   Mr. Bushong made a motion, seconded by Mr. Ellison, to award the bid to
Quast, Inc. for a total package of $36,303.35 for overlaying all three streets.
Mr. Gabbard asked if the city had ever had problems with work performed by
Quast, Inc. in the past. Mr. Whitacre stated he has to supervise this company
closely as they have a habit of not properly preparing the street prior to
paving, but he will keep an eye on this. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Sidewalk Project along Madison Pike – Hartland Blvd. to Walnut Hall Drive
70.   Mr. Wendling reported that the city has not yet obtained an easement for
the sidewalk project in front of the McIntosh residence at 5406 Madison Pike.
Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Walker if he had sent a certified letter to the
McIntosh’s. Mr. Walker stated he had. Mr. Bushong asked what other options were
available to the city to obtain the easement. Mr. Walker stated there are
options the city can exercise, including condemnation of the property if the
owner refuses to grant the city an easement, and he will be investigating those
options. Mayor Kriege commented there are issues also with utility poles on the
cemetery property.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
71.   Chairman, Mr. Kudera stated that the budget matters have been discussed
earlier in this meeting.
Building & Recreation Committee
72.   Mr. Moriconi, Chairman, reported that the dedication of the Senior Center
is scheduled for June 13, 2002 from 4:00 – 6:00 p.m. Mayor Kriege also
announced that the city will hold a public forum to review the architects
rendering of a master plan for Memorial Park on May 16, 2002. Mr. Wendling
announced that Governor Paul Patton would visit Independence to tour the new
Senior Center on May 16, 2002 between 1:20 p.m. and 2:00 p.m.
Personnel & Administration Committee
73.   Chairman, Mr. Bushong reported the committee met on April 10, 2002 and
discussed minor changes to the personnel policy. Mayor Kriege stated that the
revisions might be submitted to council at the June meeting.
Planning & Zoning Committee
74.   Chairman, Mr. Ellison stated there was no report, as the committee did
not meet in April.
Public Safety Committee
75.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps asked Chief Butler to give this report. Chief Butler
reported that the Guns & Hoses basketball game raised over $500. He advised
that Simon Kenton High School has agreed to provide the city $20,000 toward the
expense of stationing a Resource Officer at the high school. He applauded
Principal Mike Tolliver for the assistance to this program. He stated that his
department will re-apply for grant funds for this program next year. Mr.
Moriconi congratulated Chief Butler on his recent recognition from the School
Board. Mr. Moriconi also announced three recent graduates from the Criminal
Justice Executive Development training course. Chief Butler announced that
Assistant Chief Dave Nichols would be leaving for the National FBI Academy on
July 7, 2002.
76.   Mr. Dupps stated that the fourth class would be graduating Wednesday
night from the Citizens Police Academy. The next committee meeting is scheduled
for May 21, 2002.
Public Works Committee
77.   Mr. Gabbard, Chairman stated the committee would meet on May 15, 2002 at
6:00 p.m. Mr. Bushong stated that during the recess, CSI informed him that they
would be willing to offer the city automated pickup on a trial basis.
Adjournment
78.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Ellison the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried unanimously and the meeting adjourned at 10:38 p.m.
____________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
 
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 3, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard,
Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance was City
Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
2.   Mayor Kriege introduced Richard Noah, 1843 Forest Run Drive, a member of
the Citizens Police Academy Alumni, who presented a pepper ball gun to the
police department that the Alumni purchased with fundraising proceeds. Mr. Noah
stated the addition of this pepper ball gun would now provide for one gun per
shift. He stated this type of non-lethal weapon would give the police officer
an alternative to using lethal force on an offender. Chief Butler thanked the
Alumni for this and the other equipment they have purchased for the department.
He stated the next Citizens Police Academy will commence on September 5, 2002
and invited everyone to attend to see a demonstration of the equipment.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 6, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of May 6, 2002 as amended. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with five yes votes and one pass vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion
carried.
Presentation of Memorial park Master Plan by Matrix Architects – Susan Keeney
4.   Mayor Kriege introduced Susan Keeney of Matrix Architects who would
present the recently completed master plan for Memorial Park. He stated that
the plan was presented at the Building and Recreation Committee last week.
5.   Ms. Keeney distributed a copy of the master plan to the council and
reviewed the highlights of the plan. She stated that input on the plan for this
park was obtained from a variety of ways; a citizen survey was conducted as
well as involvement from the city staff. She stated the citizen survey results
stressed the desire for a family oriented park. She stated that they tried to
adopt a vision for the future based on the survey results and taking into
consideration the irregular park terrain, trees and natural vegetation that are
present. She stated they worked with the existing features and have proposed
another egress via Peach Drive. Ms. Keeney stated that the citizen survey
revealed that additional parking, toilet facilities, play equipment for younger
children, water fountains and security police patrol were high priorities for
the park. She stated they tried to design a plan that would work with the
existing walking trails, provide an access road to the future amphitheater and
locate parking around the perimeter of the park. She advised that this plan
would not move the existing play area and shelter building.
6.   Ms. Keeney advised that the master plan is to be used as a tool for the
future development of the park and is not a construction document. Mr. Gabbard
stated that Mr. Charles Deters has submitted an alternate amphitheater plan to
the city for consideration. Ms. Keeney stated she was aware of this alternate
plan that suggests relocating the amphitheater further back from the Senior
Center and developing a road to access the amphitheater. She cautioned
placement of the access road in that section of terrain. Mr. Gabbard stated
that the lake shown on the master plan map is on the bordering property to the
park. Ms. Keeney stated that the city may desire acquiring that area in the
future as the lake provides a nice amenity.
7.   Ms. Keeney closed by informing council that the plan also gives a broad
look at how to implement the plan over time. Mayor Kriege encouraged the
Building and Recreation Committee to look at phasing in the plan over time, as
the budget will permit and suggested they make a recommendation to council.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
8.   Frank Platek, 732 Hogreffe Road, addressed council regarding the proposed
rezoning of the Glenhurst Development area that includes portions of Hogreffe
and Bristow Roads. He stated that he had new information to present. Mayor
Kriege interrupted him by advising that council would not be permitted to hear
any information that was not presented at the public hearing held by the Kenton
County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission. Mayor Kriege reminded Mr.
Platek and council that the city’s decision regarding this zone change had to
be based solely on the information that was presented at the public hearing.
Mr. Platek reminded council that on four previous occasions the Planning
Commission recommended to not expand this area beyond 2.4 units per acre. He
began to comment on conversations he has had with representatives of the city
and again Mayor Kriege cautioned him about revealing new evidence that was not
heard at the public hearing. Mr. Platek expressed his concern that a brother-
in-law of one of the council members is one of the developers of this land and
stated that he feels there is an appearance of a conflict of interest. Mayor
Kriege stated that it is up to the individual council member to decide if they
feel they have a conflict of interest. Mr. Platek requested that each council
member, when called upon to cast their vote, cite why they are voting for or
against the zone change. In closing, Mr. Platek stated that the watershed site
is worse than ever and that he feels the developers are railroading this zone
change. Mayor Kriege stated that council should not be hearing any new
comments, as the public hearing that was held by the Planning Commission was
the resident’s opportunity to voice their concerns.
9.   Russell England, 1 Stevens Road, addressed council regarding the excess
water run off that has been draining into his lake. He stated that he did not
see plans for water retention in the Memorial Park master plan presented
earlier. Mayor Kriege stated that it is not shown in the master plan rendering
but agreed that the city should consider why this flooding is occurring. Mr.
England stated that he is in favor of the park but would appreciate the city
looking into the flooding. Mayor Kriege asked Dave Whitacre, City Engineer to
inspect this area and advise council.
10.   Grace Wilson, 3735 Klette Road, addressed council regarding the re-zoning
of the Fornash property on Mills Road. She commented that the footnotes in the
Comprehensive Plan mention that the roads (Marshall, Mills and Decoursey) in
the area need a lot of attention. She stated she would like to see council heed
these footnotes when considering the zone change request. Ms. Wilson stated
that she understands the benefit of a zone change for the developers but sees
no benefit for her and other residents. She also expressed her frustration that
some of the council members campaigned against over development yet continues
to approve developments that she considers mediocre projects.
11.   Roger C. Bales, 801 Hogreffe Road, stated that he is an opponent of the
proposed development in the Hogreffe Road area. He stated that he wanted to
point out that two percent of the tax bill is designated to support the
Planning Commission, and that if the city has the power to override the
recommendations of the Commission that those tax dollars should be eliminated.
Mayor Kriege stated that he did not feel the council had the power to eliminate
the county taxes at the city level.
12.   Jim Knarr, 10157 Marshall Road, addressed council regarding his
opposition of the development of the Fornash property. Mr. Knarr’s main concern
was the creek flooding which gets worse every year. He stated that he spoke for
one half hour at the Planning Commission’s public hearing and realized when he
left there that this development was a ‘done deal.’ The developer’s plan for a
bridge on Marshall Road is acknowledgment that they are aware of the flooding,
which comes from the Mills Road Park area. Mr. Knarr was also concerned with
the number of units per acre, citing that 3.5 homes per acre is ridiculous in
this area. He stated that some of the 133 acres has a sloping terrain. He
expressed concern that the schools and infrastructure are not able to handle
this future growth. He stated that Governor Patton’s Smart Growth Task Force
establishes goals that include land use plans. In closing, he urged council to
keep in mind the flooding problem in the area when coming to a decision on this
development plan.
13.   Don Saylor, 6084 Taylor Mill Road spoke in favor of the Fornash
development and re-zoning. He stated that he moved here approximately thirty
years ago when the area was completely rural. He stated he has enjoyed the area
but realizes that change will take place. He stated that the Fornash’s have
been good stewards of their land and that poor health has forced Mr. Fornash to
eliminate his livestock. He stated that Mr. Fornash has hired the best
engineers to address the concerns of traffic, sewers and water runoff in order
to protect the neighbors. Mr. Saylor stated he would like to give support to
the Fornash project.
14.   Jeff Jarboe, 11466 Marshall Road addressed council in opposition to the
proposed development of the Fornash property on Mills Road. He stated that he
feels a violation occurred at the Planning Commission as a preliminary site
plan was not available prior to the meeting. He stated that this is not a
normal procedure and would like the matter to be resubmitted to the Commission
because of this violation. He also expressed concern with the plans to install
two pump stations and tie into the existing Marshall Road station. He stated
there are no plans for a gravity line and doesn’t believe this design will
allow the area to develop 1100 homes. He also objected to the main reason the
Planning Commission cited for approving this development plan, which was the
new designation of an Urban Service District. Mr. Jarboe was also concerned
that the plan indicates that forty acres will drain into the Decoursey Creek
instead of the ponds. In closing, he urged council to send this matter back to
the Planning Commission for reconsideration or to deny the zone change request.
15.   Richard Maines, 5254 Courtney Court, asked council what would be done
with the abandoned Everyday gas station at the corner of Madison Pike and
Independence Station Road as the property is looking shabby. Mayor Kriege
advised Mr. Maines that the property was in bankruptcy court. Mr. Maines also
suggested that council combine the commercial and residential trash rate in an
effort to get a lower contract rate.
END OF PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
Award of the Bid for the Lawn and Park Maintenance Contract for Fiscal Year
2002/03
16.   Mr. Wendling informed council that the city is in receipt of four bids
for the maintenance of lawn and park grounds. He stated that the bids were
received from Quad Lawn Care Services, Jackson’s Lawncare Service, Dan’s Lawn
Care and Malco Services. Mr. Wendling stated that because the bid specs allow
the contractor to bid per time or by the hour it is difficult to determine
which bid is the lowest. He stated that some contractors quoted by the hour but
the majority quoted a bid per time each location was maintained. He stated that
the bids give the impression that Quad is the lower bidder and Dan’s is the
high bid. He advised that the contract for the last few years has been with
Malco Lawn Services.
17.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to award the lawn/ball park maintenance bid to
Malco Services as the best bid; seconded by Mr. Kudera. Mr. Ellison commented
that when looking at the bids submitted, that Malco appears high, but
considering that the city has received excellent service he agrees the contract
should be awarded to Malco as the best bid. Mayor Kriege concurred, and added
that Malco knows the area and has provided notable assistance with the
landscaping of the Senior Center building. Mayor Kriege stated that he feels
this is the lowest and best bid submitted. Mr. Gabbard commented that Barry
Malott (Malco) goes the extra mile for the city and that he can be counted on
to provide the needed services. Roll call was answered with six yes votes.
Motion carried 6-0 in favor of awarding the contract to Malco Lawn Services.
Award of Bid for Trash Collection
18.   Mayor Kriege stated that the Public Works Committee met on May 15th with
representatives of the three companies that bid on this contract to review the
bids received. Mr. Gabbard, Chairman of the Public Works Committee, stated that
the meeting lasted two hours with many questions presented and answered. He
stated that two thirds of the citizens favor Rumpke, but he feels there have
been a lot of problems with Rumpke and that concerns him. Mr. Gabbard cited
that his main concern in Rumpke’s bid was the section that would allow Rumpke
to levy additional fees on the city to cover any federal fees imposed on
Rumpke. He stated that the other bids received from Bavarian and CSI did not
include that provision. Moreover, Mr. Gabbard stated, CSI is the low bidder.
Mr. Ellison countered that Rumpke has serviced the city for a long time and in
all that time has never known them to implement this clause. Mr. Kudera
commented that under federal law the city would still have the right to refuse
any increase in fees; he stated that this is a common clause in this type of
contract and sees no reason to deny award of the contract for that reason. He
stated that in his opinion Rumpke has serviced the city very well. Mr. Gabbard
reiterated that he feels Rumpke is too high and this clause gives them the
opportunity to impose additional fees. Mr. Kudera stated that Rumpke could not
arbitrarily impose additional fees, but could come before council to negotiate
any increase.
19.   Mayor Kriege asked Greg Rumpke to clarify this clause in the bid package.
Mr. Rumpke advised that they have not used this clause in the past and would
only come before council if they felt they needed assistance with additional
federal fees that they incur. He stated that one time, some years ago, he
requested additional fees from the city council and was refused; and he
reiterated Mr. Kudera’s comment that, this clause could not be exercised
without agreement from the city council.
20.   Mr. Moriconi commented that the Public Works Committee spent two hours
talking about garbage. He stated that the bids were very professional. He
stated that he felt the automated pickup proposed by CSI was not something the
city was ready to try at this time. Mr. Moriconi commented that the city has no
complaints with Rumpke regarding current services provided to the city. In
addition, he felt that the $7.00 per year difference between Rumpke and CSI was
relative.
21.   Mr. Dupps stated he would like council to consider recycling as part of
the package awarded. He stated that he feels that few residents currently
subscribe to recycling, as it is an additional financial burden to them. He
commented that he feels the city would be encouraging more residents to
participate in recycling if this is a part of the program offered. Mayor Kriege
commented the he is probably right but that would add another $25.00 per year
to this assessment of each resident. He stated that hopefully the recycling
program could be added on in the next couple of years. Mr. Moriconi commented
that only 149 out of 5000 residences currently subscribe to curbside recycling.
Mayor Kriege suggested the city might want to promote this program to possibly
boost the subscription number of residents.
22.   Representative from CSI, Ms. Christy, thanked the city for giving them
the opportunity to bid on this contract. She stated they feel their bid is the
lowest with no additional charge for recycling. She advised that, per
legislation, the contractor is permitted to pass on the additional fees imposed
by the federal government without getting prior approval from the city council.
In closing, she stated that CSI provided the city with the best bid and hopes
that council will take that into consideration. Mr. Wendling clarified Ms.
Christy’s comment that there is no charge for the recycling bid, but that the
resident subscription rate is $4.00 per month for recycling pickup. Another
representative for CSI commented that their bid was submitted per the city
specifications and does not contain qualifications. A representative from
Rumpke commented that they feel Rumpke submitted the best bid based on the
quality of their current service and the past service they have provided the
city over the last decade. That withstanding, he feels this is a fair bid.
There was a brief discussion between Mr. Gabbard and the Rumpke representative
regarding the employee wages paid by Rumpke and CSI.
23.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to award the trash pickup contract to CSI, as
the lowest and best bid, Option “A-1”, for the period of July 1, 2002 through
June 30, 2004 at the rate of $93.60 per year, with the subscription recycling
rate of $4.50 per month. The motion died for lack of a second.
24.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to award the trash pickup contract to Rumpke as
the best bid, Option “A-1”, for the period of July 1, 2002 through June 30,
2004 at the rate of $100.80 per year, with the subscription recycling rate of
$3.50 per month. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with
four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Dupps.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-08 Approving A Zoning Map Amendment for Glenhurst
Development – 2nd Reading
25.   Mayor Kriege presented Ordinance No. 2002-O-08 for a second reading. Mr.
Gabbard excused himself from the discussion on this matter before council and
left the room. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance by title only. There was
a brief discussion regarding the ordinance to annex these parcels to be
developed and the ordinance to approve a zone change and the sequence thereof.
Mr. Moriconi addressed the residents concerns with the density of the
development plan regarding the parcel that includes fifty-foot lots. Mayor
Kriege advised that the zone would remain as is in that parcel. Mr. Moriconi
stated that the original concern was there would be seven lots per acre. An
audience member commented that the seven per acre was a bogus figure – net
versus gross – and that Independence did not have this density anywhere in the
city.
26.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2002-O-08 adopting the
zone change for the Glenhurst Development; seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Mr. Walker
advised that council would first have to override the recommendation of the
Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission to disapprove this
request.
27.   A motion was made by Mr. Dupps and seconded by Mr. Moriconi to take a
brief recess. Motion carried with all ayes.
28.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to reconvene the meeting; seconded by Mr.
Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting resumed.
29.   Mr. Kudera and Mr. Moriconi withdrew their motion and second from the
floor.
Resolution No. 2002-R-11 – Motion to Override in Part the Recommendation of the
KC&MP&Z Commission Application No. 1551R
30.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to read Resolution No. 2002-R-11 that would
override in part the recommendation of the KC&MP&Z Commission regarding
application number 1551R; seconded by Mr. Kudera. Mr. Walker read the
resolution. Roll call vote was answered with five yes votes (Mr. Gabbard had
recused himself from the room and did not vote in this matter). Motion carried
5-0 in favor.
31.   Mr. Walker read Ordinance No. 2000-O-08 that would amend the zoning map
for four parcels of land in the area of Bristow, Maher, and Hogreffe Roads
totaling approximately 269 acres. Mr. Kudera made a motion to adopt Ordinance
No. 2000-O-08, seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Roll call was answered with five yes
votes. Motion carried 5-0 in favor. (Mr. Gabbard had recused himself from the
room and did not vote in this matter).
Ordinance No. 2002-O-09 Approving the Annexation of Unincorporated Areas
(Glenhurst Development) 2nd Reading
32.   Mayor Kriege presented Ordinance No. 2002-O-09 to council for approval of
the annexation of the unincorporated areas relating to the parcels rezoned in
Ordinance No. 2002-O-08 including the Glenhurst Development. Mr. Walker read
the proposed ordinance. Mr. Dupps questioned the R-1F zone of Parcel “E”. Mr.
Walker explained that that this zone would not be changed and the city would be
accepting it at its current zone. Mayor Kriege instructed that the R-1F wording
contain a strikethrough.
33.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2002-O-09 as read;
seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Roll call vote was answered with five yes votes (Mr.
Gabbard had recused himself from the room and did not vote in this matter).
Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
34.   Mr. Gabbard returned to the room to participate in the rest of the
meeting.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-10 Approving a Text Amendment Permitting Indoor Horse
Arenas/Riding Stables – 2nd Reading
35.   Mayor Kriege presented Ordinance 2002-O-10 to council for approval of a
proposed text amendment to the zoning ordinance that would add horse stables
and indoor riding arenas to the list of conditional uses with certain
restrictions within residential zones. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
A motion was made by Mr. Dupps and seconded by Mr. Ellison to adopt Ordinance
No. 2002-O-10. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-11 Adopting the Budget for the 2002-03 Fiscal Year – 2nd
Reading
36.   Mayor Kriege presented Ordinance No. 2002-O-11 for approval by council to
adopt the city budget for the 2002-03 fiscal year. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
37.   Motion was made by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Dupps to adopt the
proposed budget.
38.   Mr. Gabbard stated that he had several questions regarding the budget
presented. He asked what property tax rate had been estimated for this revenue
line item. Finance Director, Janet Rebman stated that line item assumed a rate
of 1.49/1,000 of assessed value based on preliminary figures obtained from the
Property Valuation Assessor and assuming the city adopts the compensating rate
plus four percent. She stated that presently the rate is 1.47. Mr. Gabbard
asked if this would be corrected when the final totals were received from the
PVA. Mayor Kriege assured Mr. Gabbard corrections would be made if necessary.
39.   Mr. Gabbard suggested the city newsletter be published three times per
year instead of the proposed twice a year. Mayor Kriege stated if council
wanted to change this then the ordinance may require a second reading. Mr.
Walker stated that a line item could be changed. Mr. Gabbard stated he would
like to amend this line.
40.   Mr. Gabbard questioned the $27,000 reduction in the city attorney’s
expense line item. Mayor Kriege stated that he is confident that this line item
expense will decrease in the coming year due to the fewer number of lawsuits
Mr. Walker is handling.
41.   Mr. Gabbard questioned the expense budgeted for codification of the
ordinances. He advised that the codification is done every two years and that
this could save $2,000.
42.   Mayor Kriege voiced his concern that if council makes any changes in the
budget that has been presented, and then the reading tonight will revert back
to a first reading. Mr. Ellison commented that he felt the summary budget would
hold true regardless of individual line items. Mr. Gabbard stated that he is
asking that some changes be made to department budgets. Mr. Moriconi asked Mr.
Gabbard how many changes he was proposing. Mr. Gabbard stated he had several
change requests. Mr. Bushong objected to Mr. Gabbard’s waiting until now to
come forth with his requests for amendments. He stated that any proposed
changes should have been done in committee meetings. Mr. Gabbard stated that he
is not on the Finance Committee, but did attend a couple of the meetings. Mayor
Kriege advised that the proposed budget has changed very little from two months
ago when it was submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee.
43.   Mr. Gabbard proceeded with his questions. He asked what the $1,200 “rent”
line item was allocated for. Mr. Ellison advised this is the expense for the
use of the courtroom where the city holds their meetings. Mr. Wendling stated
this line item decreased since the city lost the leased space in the old
firehouse building. Mr. Gabbard asked why the line item for the auto lease for
Mr. Wendling’s car increased by $400. Mayor Kriege replied that the current
lease would expire by the end of this year and it was estimated that a new
lease or purchase would increase from the current rate.
44.   Mr. Gabbard questioned the need for a line item for a Public Works
seasonal employee and suggested the city utilize Kenton County jail inmates for
this type of labor. Mr. Wendling stated the city has used inmates in the past
but has found that this type of laborer is not always a reliable resource for
the city. Mr. Gabbard also questioned the capital expenditures line item in the
Public Works budget. Mayor Kriege advised that this is for equipment that is
not your average type of tool, such as a generator, etc.
45.   Mr. Gabbard was concerned that the road repairs budget was only $240,000.
Mayor Kriege advised he was backing down on the road budget for the coming year
as the city has spent a lot the last three-four years. Mr. Moriconi asked if
the Holton Drive project would come from the proposed budget. Mayor Kriege
stated that project would be paid out of the current 2001/02 budget.
46.   Mr. Gabbard asked about the T-21 Grant for the construction of sidewalks.
Mayor Kriege advised the $145,475 allocation was put into the budget in the
anticipation that city would be awarded the grant. He stated that the funds
would not be expended if the city does not receive the grant. Ms. Brake advised
the next section of sidewalks would proceed north on Madison.
47.   Mr. Gabbard expressed concern that the Senior Center budget of $168,894
seemed high in light of the fact that the building is open only three days per
week. Mr. Wendling advised that the goal of the Board of Directors is to open
five days per week by June or July of this year. He stated that currently the
Center is open three days a week from 9:00 am until 3:00 p.m. Mr. Gabbard asked
if kitchen equipment and furniture has been purchased. Mr. Wendling advised
that tables, chairs and some of the kitchen equipment has been purchased and
installed.
48.   Regarding the Municipal Center Fund, Mr. Gabbard noted the loan proceeds
revenue and asked how many years the city would pay on this loan. Mayor Kriege
advised the loan was for seventeen years with no penalty for early payoff
49.   Mayor Kriege advised council that the budget would be adopted using a
summary format so that changes on individual line items could be made
throughout the year. There being no further questions regarding the proposed
budget, roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr.
Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-12 Adopting a Pay Plan for Fiscal Year 2002/03 – 1st
Reading
50.   Mayor Kriege presented Ordinance No. 2002-O-12 for a second reading to
adopt an employee Pay Plan for the fiscal year 2002/03. Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance. Mr. Moriconi made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2002-O-
12; seconded by Mr. Bushong.
51.   Mr. Gabbard noted that the minimum pay range for the City Administrator
position was originally $52,950, but the schedule submitted to council in the
May council packets indicated the increased pay ranges for the police
department and an increase in the Administrator’s minimum level to $61,736.
Mayor Kriege advised that the increase in the minimum range for the
Administrator was made to maintain the level, not raise the salary. Mr. Gabbard
stated that he felt that a minimum pay over $60,000 was excessive for this
position and requested the minimum be set back at $52,950.
52.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to set the minimum pay level for the City
Administrator position at $52,950; seconded by Mr. Ellison. Mayor Kriege voiced
his objection to this move. Mr. Dupps asked what effect this minimum would
have. Mayor Kriege stated he feels there is a need to increase the minimum
salary level for this position. Mr. Moriconi commented that changing the
minimum pay level would not have an effect on the position’s new pay increase.
Roll call was answered unanimously in favor of amending the pay plan to reflect
a minimum pay level of $52,950 for the administrator position. Mr. Walker
stated that the proposed ordinance now reverts back to a first reading and the
vote was not necessary.
Discussion of Allocating Funds for the Kentucky Renaissance Program
53.   Mr. Gabbard stated he has a petition that requests the city to continue
with the Renaissance Program of the downtown area. Mayor Kriege stated that
during the budget process for next year he struggled with allocating funds for
this program but that there was only so much money to cover the various
departments and this program would require an employee be hired to administer
the program. Mr. Gabbard argued that the program has a return rate of 80%. Mr.
Gabbard made a motion to add the Renaissance Program to the 2002/03 budget by
allocating $12,000 to be taken from the general fund reserve. He stated that
then the city could apply for the Silver designation by the September deadline.
Mr. Moriconi stated the city would then be required to hire the employee to
administer the program. Mr. Wendling advised the city would have to hire within
a year or refund the money received from the state. Mr. Gabbard stated he felt
this was a good opportunity to revitalize the downtown area. Mr. Dupps seconded
the motion. Mr. Dupps asked what the $12,000 would finance. Mr. Gabbard
reiterated the city could get an 80% return on this money. Mrs. Barbara
Gabbard, who was in the audience, advised the $12,000 would be used for
whatever the city indicates in the written grant application; sidewalks, street
lighting, etc. Mr. Dupps stated that the city would need to push forward, as
putting this grant together with limited staff would take a lot of work. Mr.
Gabbard concurred that it would be a lot of work, but that it needs to be
started and that this is something the city should strive for. Mayor Kriege
advised that continuing the Renaissance Program would be a very large
commitment for the city. Mr. Kudera commented that continuing this Program
would be spending money the city doesn’t have as the city has quite serious
budget constraints. He stated there should be a master plan adopted prior to
continuing this program. Mayor Kriege stated that the Renaissance Program is
only one way that the area can be revitalized. He stated that private funds
would be another way to keep this program going and that support for the
program would be needed from the residents to assist in this endeavor. Mr.
Gabbard stated that the funds could be used to invest in sidewalks to help the
city have a nicer appearance. Mayor Kriege stated that Hometown Pizza and Huber
& Behle Contractors reconstructed the sidewalks in front of their
establishments. Mr. Kudera commented that several homes in the business area
are badly in need of repairs and asked council if the city should pay for that
as well. He stated that he feels the private sector should fund this. Mayor
Kriege stated that it is the homeowner’s responsibility to repair the sidewalks
in front of their property. Mr. Gabbard stated that he felt the city should try
to make an effort to upgrade the downtown area. Mr. Bushong asked who would
write the grant. Mayor Kriege advised that Ms. Brake wrote the original
application for the Bronze level. Mr. Wendling stated he would have to look at
the current staff workload before he could answer that. Mayor Kriege stated
that the city couldn’t go out and hire someone at this time. At this time roll
call was taken and answered with three yes votes by Mr. Ellison Mr. Gabbard and
Mr. Dupps and three no votes cast by Mr. Kudera, Mr. Moriconi and Mr. Bushong.
Mayor Kriege broke the tie by voting no. The motion was defeated 4-3.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-12 Adopting a Pay Plan for Fiscal Year 2002/03 – Emergency
Reading
54.   Mr. Dupps re-addressed the employee Pay Plan ordinance by suggesting that
council have an emergency reading. Mr. Dupps made a motion to declare that an
emergency exists; seconded by Mr. Gabbard. Roll call was answered unanimously.
55.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2002-O-12 amending the
employee Pay Plan; seconded by Mr. Gabbard. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – For Map Amendment Granting a Zone Change for the Fornash
Property on Mills Road – 1st Reading
56.   Mayor Kriege presented to council a proposed ordinance that would amend
the zoning map for approximately 130-acre tract owned by Clint Fornash along
the northeast side of Mills Road and the northwest side of Marshall Road from
R-RE to R-1C. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance. Mr. Gabbard questioned
having a first reading when there was no discussion on the floor to see if
there was a consensus that council favored this change. Mayor Kriege stated
that there would be discussion prior to a second reading at next month’s
meeting. Mr. Walker stated he would also prepare a resolution to override the
recommendation by the Planning Commission just in case council would opt to do
that.
Resolution 2002-R-12 Adopting Rental Fees and Policies for the Independence
Senior Citizens Center
57.   Mayor Kriege presented to council a resolution that would approve rental
fees and policies for use of the Senior Center. He stated that if council would
need a little longer to review this document that it could be addressed next
month. Mr. Dupps asked what types of functions the center would be rented for.
Ms. Bowling, Senior Center Director replied that the facility could be rented
for a variety of functions, such as baby showers, wedding showers and rehearsal
dinners. She stated the permitted uses are stated in the contract document. Mr.
Walker advised that the document is a standard form that was tweaked for minor
modifications and suggested that it can be amended in the future if necessary.
Mr. Ellison asked if the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts be charged for use of the
building. Ms. Bowling replied that she has discussed this with Mr. Wendling and
they may draft another policy with regard to non-profit organizations. Mr.
Walker suggested that organizations with a 501-3(c) exemption be treated in
another manner. Mr. Wendling stated that the rental fee is $60 per room and
there are five rooms.
58.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2002-R-12; seconded
by Mr. Dupps. Mr. Moriconi asked how long the rental would be for. Ms. Bowling
stated that the rental was $60 for four hours and that the rental fees were
based on similar fees charged by other Senior Centers in Northern Kentucky.
There was a brief discussion. Mr. Wendling asked council if they wanted to
exempt 501-3(c) organizations and other non-profit groups from paying rental
fees. Mr. Ellison motioned to amend his motion to increase the security fee
from $50 to $100 and to exempt non-profit groups and 501-3(c) organizations
from being charged a rental fee. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Motion carried
unanimously. Roll call on the original motion to approve Resolution No. 2002-R-
12 was also answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
59.   Mr. Wendling stated that he would like to discuss the sidewalk easement
for the Nannie McIntosh property in executive session.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
60.   Mr. Kudera stated the committee had nothing to report.
Building & Recreation Committee
61.   Chairman, Mr. Moriconi, stated the committee met last week to discuss
several items. He reported that the Special Events committee is working on the
Fourth of July Celebration with the parade beginning at 2:00 p.m. He stated
that some events would begin as early as noon. He stated that currently nine
food vendors would have booths at this year’s event.
62.   Mr. Moriconi reported that the water line has been installed at Schadler
Park and that the dedication ceremony for the Senior Center will be on June 13,
2002 from 4:00 until 6:00 p.m. with the actual dedication occurring around 5:30
p.m.
Personnel & Administration Committee
63.   Chairman, Mr. Bushong, stated the next meeting of this committee is
scheduled for July 9, 2002.
Planning & Zoning Committee
64.   Chairman, Mr. Ellison reported the committee would meet to discuss the
zone change request by Mr. Fornash for his Mills Road property. He also
reported that Mike Schwartz of the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission
has addressed the site distance change for the Williams Woods subdivision
development on Bristow Road. He stated that the development plan might be
denied until the reconstruction of Bristow Road is complete.
Public Safety Committee
65.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps reported that Simon Kenton’s Project Prom was a
success. He thanked the Citizens Police Academy Alumni for the purchase of the
new pepper gun for the police department. He stated that a Bike Rodeo was held
on Memorial Day. Mr. Dupps reported that the police department has purchased a
new trailer to haul equipment and it will also be utilized for other things. He
announced that the annual Golf Outing is scheduled for August. In closing, he
announced that Lt. Governor Henry would be in Independence on June 10th at 7:00
p.m. to kick off the Promote Project Home Safe Program. He stated that this
program is geared to keep guns out of children’s hands. The next meeting of
this committee is scheduled for June 18, 2002 at 5:30 p.m.
Public Works Committee
66.   Chairman, Mr. Gabbard advised the committee will meet in July and a day
will be determined later.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
67.   Mayor Kriege stated he had nothing to report and asked for a motion to go
into executive session.
Executive Session
68.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to enter into executive session in accordance
with K.R.S. 61.810 (b) to discuss deliberations on future acquisition or sale
of real property. Mr. Gabbard seconded the motion. Motion carried with all
ayes.
69.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to return to the regular session of the council
meeting; seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
70.   Upon motion by Mr. Dupps and second by Mr. Kudera the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting closed at 10:16 p.m.
__________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JULY 1, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera
and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member Jim Ellison was absent.
Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator,
Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the June 3, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of June 3, 2002 as amended. Mr. Bushong seconded the motion. No roll
call; motion carried with all ayes.
July 4th Celebration – Update Report by Nita Brake
3.   Ms. Brake gave a report for the Special Events Committee to Mayor Kriege
and council regarding the plans for the upcoming July 4th Celebration. She
stated the days events would begin with a parade at two o’clock commencing from
the Summit View Schools parking lot and ending at Memorial Park. She stated
that a Black Hawk would do a ‘’fly-over” during the parade. She stated that the
Grand Marshals of the parade this year would be Lt. Governor Steve Henry and
his wife, former Miss America, Heather French Henry, and Mr. James Simmons, a
city resident. She stated that on Friday, July 5th, at the Wright Patterson Air
Force Base, Mr. Simmons would be receiving a Purple Heart medal for his valor
demonstrated during World War II when the plane he was piloting was shot down.
She stated that several military vehicles would be on display at the Park
during the day’s event. Ms. Brake reported that approximately twenty booths
would be set up offering a variety of food and games, in addition to
fundraising booths manned by local organizations. She stated that the day’s
entertainment would include a variety of musical groups that would play from 3:
30 until 9:00 p.m., with kiddie rides and a fireworks display at 10:00 p.m. She
stated that because a large crowd is expected for the fireworks display, that
shuttle bus service would be provided from 8:00 p.m. until 11:45 p.m. along
Madison Pike at various parking lots.
4.   Mayor Kriege stated that he is looking forward to this year’s event, as it
would be bigger and better than last year. He encouraged everyone’s attendance.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-13 – Map Amendment for Zone Change of Fornash Property on
Mills Road – 2nd Reading
5.   Mayor Kriege advised that council has before them the minutes of the May
2, 2002 public hearing of the Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning
Commission as well as the letter of recommendation relative to the request by
Mr. Clint Fornash for a map amendment for his property (approximately 130 acre
parcel) along the northeast side of Mills Road. Mayor Kriege reminded council
that any decision made regarding this zone change request would have to be
based on the information disclosed at the public hearing. He asked Mr. Martin
Butler, attorney for Mr. Fornash if he wanted to make a presentation to
council.
6.   Mr. Butler sated that he had nothing further to add and was here on behalf
of Mr. Fornash, who was also in attendance. He stated he would answer any
questions council may have regarding this request.
7.   Mayor Kriege opened the floor to Mr. Jim Knarr, 10157 Marshall Road, who
spoke in opposition to this zone change and planned development. Mr. Knarr
asked if council had received the map. Mayor Kriege replied they had. Mr. Knarr
reported that this area has a major flood every five years, the most recent
being on April 22, 2002. He stated that he feels the flooding is a direct
result of the development of Shaw Estates and Manor Hill subdivisions. He
stated that he has attempted to get an answer regarding a flood plain for this
area, but has been unable to get an answer. He asked if a study has been done
regarding this. Mr. Butler stated a study has not been conducted yet, but it
would be the next step in the process. He stated that Mr. Fornash was here to
request a zone change only, not for approval of a development plan. He stated
that catch basins would be a part of a plan. Mr. Knarr expressed his concern
regarding the flooding and felt the property could be developed after the flood
conditions are solved. Mr. Butler stated that the Planning Commission reviewed
this request and these issues were not raised. Mr. Bushong asked if the
property was in a flood zone. Mr. Butler stated that the property is not in a
flood plain as it sits on a hill. Mr. Knarr distributed maps to council that
were also presented at the public hearing held by the Planning Commission. He
stated that development of the Fornash property would add to the current
flooding on Marshall Road. Mr. Butler disagreed that the current flooding is
the fault of the planned development.
8.   Mr. Knarr stated that his objections to this development also include the
plans for 3.5 units per acre, which he feels is too high, only one ingress/
egress, which he feels could be a safety issue if Mills Road was blocked and
emergency vehicles could not access the area. Mr. Knarr also stated that he
feels the planned development would be unfair to the surrounding neighbors.
9.   Mr. Butler stated that he objected to the presentation of the photos
showing the flooding conditions, which he claimed were never presented to the
Planning Commission nor did the applicant see these photos. Mr. Butler
presented a packet to the mayor and council, which was also presented to the
Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission at the May 2, 2002
public hearing. He stated the zone change request would further a proposed
development of 137 acres to construct no more than 300 homes. He stated the
current zone permits 2 units per acre and the R-1C zone would allow 3.5 units
per acre. He stated the range planned that would not exceed the 300 homes would
be 2.4 – 2.5 units per acre. He stated this is very conservative considering
the number of units permitted; the plan is on the low end of the range. In
response to the plan for only one ingress/egress, Mr. Butler stated, that by
current law, they are not required to provide a second access unless the
development is over five hundred units. He stated the houses will be
constructed along the ridge top and the roads will be laid out so that the
water can be caught. He stated the catch basins would feed to a well-designed
retention area. Mr. Butler stated the development plan is well within the
regulations and that the driveway point access issue is not prohibited by the
subdivision regulations only that it is recommended. He stated the plans do not
include many lots on the Marshall Road side, with some lots on Mills Road that
are adequately spaced.
10.   Mr. Bushong asked where the nearest sewage plant was to the area. Mr.
Butler stated there was a force main on Marshall Road, which will provide for a
natural connection and with the ability to service 1400 homes is more than
adequate in size. He stated that this force main currently serves less than 400
homes in the area. He commented that the Sanitation District put a lot of
forethought into the design of this pump station regarding future needs of the
area. Mr. Moriconi asked how many years it would take to build out. Mr. Butler
stated that they have estimated it would take approximately six years to
complete the subdivision at fifty homes per year.
11.   Mr. Gabbard stated that the pump station on Marshall Road was installed
and is owned by the City of Independence and for which the city is currently
paying the debt. Mr. Gabbard read an excerpt from the letter from the Chairman
of the Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission dated May 6,
2002. He stated that page two; paragraph b referring to the need to upgrade
Marshall Road as a collector road, was specifically devoted to this
development. Mr. Butler commented that he feels this paragraph is a matter of
interpretation, but advised that Mills Road will be the main artery. He feels
the purpose of the Comprehensive Plan recommending that Marshall Road be
upgraded was for the eventuality of a larger development, over five hundred
homes. He stated that the neither Commission, nor staff raised this issue at
the public hearing.
12.   Mr. Gabbard raised some concerns he had regarding the three retention
ponds planned for the development, especially how they would effect the houses
that sit below the area. Mr. Jim Berling, engineer for this development
explained that the regulations allow for the detention area to be over-designed
so that it can detain more than necessary. Mr. Berling stated that the main
drain to Marshall Road would go under the road and into the creek. Mr. Gabbard
feared this would cause the creek to rise at a faster rate. Mr. Berling
explained that the water would be stored then released slowly. Mr. Gabbard was
concerned that with flooding already a problem that more homes would create
more flooding. Mr. Butler stated that the water would be directed into the
detention ponds then the catch basins would contribute to the lake at a slow
rate as opposed to the rapid rate that currently exists.
13.   Mr. Gabbard asked who would develop this subdivision and what builders
would be involved. Mr. Butler stated they have not yet contracted with a
developer, consequently they do not know what builders would be associated with
this development. Mr. Butler stated that Scheben has expressed an interest in
developing this property.
14.   Mr. Gabbard also had concerns for adequate thoroughfares in this
development. Mr. Butler stated that Mills Road is much larger than Marshall
Road and guessed it to be 28-30 feet in width. He stated that the Planning
Commission would require that main road be identified when the development plan
is submitted for approval. Mr. Gabbard was concerned that the lack of two
entrances into the development might hinder access for emergency vehicles. He
asked if the entrance would be well lit. Mr. Butler stated that an attractive
entrance would be included in the development plans. Mr. Gabbard stated he
would like to see one builder versus multiple builders in an effort to keep the
city free of smaller, poorly constructed houses. Mr. Butler stated that it
would be unfair to limit the developer to one builder, and assured council that
they would find very interested, good builders.
15.   Mr. Butler stated for the record that the application is for a zone
change; there is no request for a variance, homeowners’ association or mixed
land uses. He stated that there is nothing unique or extraordinary regarding
this rezoning request and that the recommendation of the Planning Commission is
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
16.   Mayor Kriege asked council how they would like to proceed. Mr. Dupps made
a motion to accept the recommendation of the Kenton County & Municipal Planning
& Zoning Commission’s decision to approve this request for a zone change from
R-RE to R-1C. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll call was answered with four
yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-13 – Approving the Map Amendment for the Fornash Property
along Mills/Marshall Rds.
17.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Bushong there was a second
reading of Ordinance No. 2002-O-13 amending the zoning map of the city changing
an approximate 137.5 acre area located along the northeast side of Mills Road
and northwest of Marshall Road from a R-RE to R-1C zone. Roll all was answered
with four yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 4-1 in
favor.
Lease Purchase Agreement for the Purchase of New Police Cruisers
18.   Mayor Kriege submitted to council for review a lease purchase agreement
in the amount of $115,275.00 over a thirty-six month period with Fifth Third
Bank for the purchase of five police vehicles. He requested that council give
him authorization to enter into this agreement with Fifth Third Bank.
19.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into the
lease purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank for the purchase of five police
vehicles; seconded by Mr. Bushong. Roll call was answered unanimously, motion
carried 5-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Imposing Parking Restrictions on Independence Road – 1st
Reading
20.   Mayor Kriege presented a proposed ordinance that would prohibit parking
on the north side of Independence Road from Madison Pike to the corporation
line. Mr. Walker stated he was asked to draft this ordinance, as the state will
not erect ‘no parking’ signs without a city ordinance prohibiting parking on
this state maintained road. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance. Mayor
Kriege advised this ordinance would be presented for a second reading and
adoption at the August 5th council meeting.
Resolution No. 2002-R-13 Authorizing Mayor to Sign Agreement for Sidewalk Funds
21.   Mayor Kriege presented Resolution No. 2002-R-13 to council that would
authorize him to sign and approve the $50,000 transportation enhancement
contract between the city and the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for sidewalk
construction in the city. He advised the contract would represent 80% of the
funds with the city agreeing to match the remaining 20%.
22.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to approve Resolution Number 2002-R-13
authorizing Mayor Kriege to enter into a contract with the Transportation
Cabinet for sidewalk construction; seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Discussion Regarding Adoption of an Ordinance to Require Developers to Present
a Site Prep Plan to City
23.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion proposing that council request the City
Attorney draft an ordinance that would require developers to present a Stage I
Plan to council when requesting a zone change. He stated that currently the
city has no procedure in place that would have developers submit a plan that
council could review. Mr. Walker commented that the Planning Commission would
probably think this is beyond the city’s realm. Mr. Gabbard stated that the
Planning Commission has more details available to them that drive the request
for the zone change. Mayor Kriege commented that the Fornash property was only
requesting a zone change not asking the city to approve a development plan. Mr.
Moriconi seconded the motion that an ordinance could be drafted for council’s
review at the next meeting. Mr. Walker stated he would need to get more details
and would talk to the Planning Commission. Roll call was answered with three
yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Bushong and Mr. Kudera. Motion carried
3-2 in favor. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Walker to consult with the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission for assistance in drafting this ordinance.
Discussion Regarding Maintenance of Abandoned Commercial Properties
24.   Mr. Bushong stated he has received calls regarding the abandoned Circle K
convenience store in Beechgrove. He stated the property is a mess and asked
what the city could do to get this property cleaned up. Mr. Wendling advised
this property was being purchased by the State Transportation Department for
the planned road improvements in the area. He stated he would check into this
and speak to the Zoning Administrator about it. Mr. Gabbard asked about the MPG
store at the intersection of Madison Pike and Independence Station Road, which
has become an eyesore. Mayor Kriege stated this property is in bankruptcy. Mr.
Wendling stated that on occasion the city has the grass area cut.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
Discussion Regarding Detention Basin Design as an Amendment to Cole+Russell
Contract
25.   Mr. Wendling stated that an amendment to the professional services
agreement with Cole + Russell Architects for the municipal center has been
presented for their review. He stated the amendment in the amount of $5,650 is
for the design of a detention basin that would accommodate the municipal center
as well as the amphitheater. Mayor Kriege stated the construction of the
detention basin would be added to the construction bids. Mr. Kudera suggested
the Memorial Park Master Plan should be approved before designing the detention
basin. Mayor Kriege advised it would be necessary to work around that project
and this would provide some preliminary analysis. Mr. Gabbard suggested the
city ask the Independence Fire District to assist in the cost of this detention
pond, as it will also retain drainage from their property. Mr. Kudera disagreed
that the Fire District building was contributing to the drainage condition.
Mayor Kriege stated that all contributing factors would be considered when the
system is designed. Mr. Kudera asked if there were other drainage problems in
the area. Mr. Wendling stated the playground area has a drainage problem, also.
Mayor Kriege stated the council could opt to do nothing as a detention pond is
not required, but the city has been informed there is flooding on the property
below this area. Mr. Whitacre, City Engineer, stated that he has not performed
a detailed analysis, but that drainage problems will increase as the area is
developed and that he is aware that overflow drainage is currently going onto
Mr. Russ England’s property. Mr. Kudera commented the he thinks it is
interesting how the city is just learning of these drainage problems when the
park has been there for three years. Mr. Whitacre stated the drainage problem
could be a combination of two or three factors. He stated that the lowest
portion of the area abuts Mr. England’s property and is probably the best area
for the detention pond. He advised that the Public Works staff recently
installed some surface drains that empty over the hill by the football field.
He stated that the park terrain is full of rock with so little soil atop. Mr.
Kudera suggested moving the play equipment to another location. Mr. Wendling
stated there are no plans to move the equipment now that the Municipal Center
will be located on Madison Pike near Peach Drive. Mr. Moriconi asked if Forest
Run Subdivision was contributing to the drainage problem. Mr. Whitacre stated
the water runoff from that subdivision drains into another ravine area. Mr.
England suggested that if the flooding problem continues that the culvert may
need to be enlarged.
26.   Mayor Kriege advised council that the proposal submitted would cost
$5,600 and would provide construction estimates for a detention pond. Mr.
Gabbard stated that he feels the city does not have an option as the city could
face liability issues in the future if this flooding continues. Mayor Kriege
stated that there are several options available: the detention pond could be
constructed with the municipal or the amphitheatre or with both, but that it
will become a city expense in any case. Mr. Gabbard suggested the detention
area be constructed along with the municipal center. Mr. Wendling stated that
the $5,600 is to design the basin. Mayor Kriege advised that the construction
cost could be ten times more that that. Mr. Moriconi asked if it was necessary
to decide this tonight. Mayor Kriege stated that a decision now is needed if
the municipal center is going to proceed on schedule. Mr. Moriconi suggested
the Building and Recreation Committee review the Memorial Park Plan from Matrix
before deciding this. Mayor Kriege stated this would delay the project by a
month and it may be too late to include this item as an alternate bid. Mr.
Bushong asked if the $5,600 would be taken from general funds. Mayor Kriege
stated this expense would be a part of the municipal center project funds.
27.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to authorize Mayor Kriege to sign the $5,600
amendment to the professional services contract with Cole+Russell Architects
for the design of a detention basin for the Municipal Center/Memorial Park
area; seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and
one no vote cast by Mr. Kudera. Motion carried 4-1 in favor.
Continuation of City Administrator’s Report
28.   Mr. Wendling reported that the sidewalk installation along Madison Pike
from Hartland Subdivision to Walnut Hall Drive is now complete.
29.   Mr. Wendling reported that the Dehlinger new zone request would be heard
before the Kenton County Planning Council’s July 11th meeting. He asked council
if they would like him to attend this meeting to represent the city and if so
what position does the city want to take in this matter. Mr. Wendling stated
that Mr. Dehlinger’s original request for a proposed RC-2 text amendment and
zone change was denied. Since then the project has been reviewed and language
revisions were made and it is expected to be approved by the Planning
Commission. Mr. Moriconi asked what has changed. Mr. Wendling stated that Mr.
Dehlinger agreed to a designated area as a conservation easement. In addition
he provided additional documentation for this project. Mr. Gabbard stated that
Mr. Wendling could attend the Planning Commission meeting to speak for the
mayor, but could not speak on behalf of the council. Mr. Kudera stated that he
did not feel it was necessary for Mr. Wendling to attend the meeting. Mayor
Kriege agreed and felt the city could let the process proceed without Mr.
Wendling attending the Planning Commission meeting to represent the city.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
30.   Mr. Kudera stated there was nothing to report.
Building & Recreation Committee
31.   Mr. Moriconi reported that the Senior Center would be holding a July 4th
Celebration fundraiser that would include dinner and balcony view of the
fireworks for $25.00 per person. He stated the city plans are in place for
Thursday’s daylong event, which Ms. Brake covered earlier in the meeting.
32.   Mr. Moriconi advised that development of Schadler Park in the Drees
Lakefield Subdivision is complete and will be deeded over to the city very
soon.
33.   Mr. Moriconi stated the T-21 grant for the next section of sidewalks
along Madison Pike has been applied for and Ms. Brake advises the city should
receive notice by the end of July as to whether or not the city will be awarded
the funds for this project.
Personnel & Administration Committee
34.   Mr. Bushong stated that the next quarterly meeting for this committee is
scheduled for July 9, 2002.
Planning & Zoning Committee
35.   No Report.
Public Safety Committee
36.   Mr. Dupps reported the city has received a grant that will make possible
the purchase of an in-car video camera. He stated the police officers would be
purchasing new uniforms, same colors but different material. Mr. Dupps advised
that the golf outing is scheduled for August 25, 2002. He stated that two
officers have completed a drug-training course and that Assistant Chief Nichols
will be leaving for the FBI Academy next week. He stated the next meeting of
this committee is scheduled for July 15, 2002 at 5:30 p.m.
Public Works Committee
37.   Mr. Gabbard stated this committee is scheduled to meet on August 14, 2002
at 6:00 p.m.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
38.   Mayor Kriege stated he had nothing to report and requested a motion to
adjourn.
ADJOURNMENT
39.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Gabbard the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting closed at 8:46 p.m.
____________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
AUGUST 5, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian Church gave
the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike
Gabbard, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also in attendance
was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Presentation of the Mayor’s Choice Award to Farmers National Bank
2.   Mayor Kriege presented the first annual Mayor’s Choice Award to Nancy
Kenter and Terri Barnes, representatives of Farmers National Bank for the
bank’s exceptional float entered into the July 4th Celebration parade. Mayor
Kriege thanked them for this wonderful display and encouraged others to come
forward next year with unique and creative entries for the parade.
Approval of the Minutes of the July 1, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of July 1, 2002 as amended. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Roll call
was answered with five yes votes with Mr. Ellison opting to pass. Motion
carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-14 – Approving Parking Restrictions on Independence Rd. –
2nd Reading
4.   Mayor Kriege presented to council Ordinance No. 2002-O-14, an ordinance
that would prohibit parking on the north side of Independence Road from its
intersection with Madison Pike to the corporation line of the city. City
Attorney, Mr. Lawson Walker read the proposed ordinance.
5.   Mr. Kudera moved and Mr. Bushong seconded his motion to adopt Ordinance
No. 2002-O-14. There was a brief discussion wherein Mr. Dupps asked how this
restriction would affect the city. Mr. Wendling advised that because
Independence Road is a state maintained route this ordinance is required by the
state to identify the exact location where parking limitations will be
enforced. Mr. Dupps asked if the state would install the “no parking” signs.
Mr. Wendling replied that the local entity adopting the restriction would take
charge of installing the signs.
6.   Roll call on Mr. Kudera’s motion and Mr.Bushong’s second was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Update on Sidewalk Easement from 5407 Madison Pike – Nannie McIntosh
7.   Mr. Gabbard requested an update on the acquisition of a sidewalk easement
from Ms. McIntosh. Mr. Walker stated that the city was able to acquire this
easement for $1,000 from Ms. McIntosh.
Update on Liberty Orchard Subdivision Compliance with Road Improvements
8.   Mr. Ellison reopened the discussion regarding the lack of compliance for
road improvements from the Henry Fischer development at Liberty Orchard
Subdivision. He advised that the original plans for this development showed
that a third lane with sidewalk and curbs would be installed at the Madison
Pike and Patriot Way intersection. He stated that this requirement was tabled
until the reconstruction of this new section of Madison Pike was completed. Mr.
Ellison stated that the state has completed construction on this area of
Madison Pike and feels the city should follow up with the Fischer Company to
enforce the improvements per the subdivision plans. Mayor Kriege directed Mr.
Wendling to obtain a copy of the subdivision plans for the city to review. Mr.
Ellison suggested the city cease all construction in Liberty Orchard until the
developer complies with the road and sidewalk improvements.
Resolution No. 2002-R-14 Accepting 2.61-Acre Parcel in Lakefield Subd. (Marion
Schadler Park)
9.   Mr. David Drees, along with Mike Schottelkotte and Ann Mitchell, came
before council to present to the city a deed for a 2.61-acre parcel of land in
the Lakefield Subdivision that has been developed by the Drees Company for the
sole purpose of a recreation area, park and open space usage. Mr. Drees stated
that the Drees Company was pleased to present this deed to a new public park in
Lakefield and appreciated the opportunity to work with the city in this
endeavor. On behalf of the city, Mayor Kriege thanked the Drees Company for
collaborating with the city to develop this new park for the residents.
10.   Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2002-R-14 wherein the city accepted the
2.61-acre parcel from the Drees Company in the Lakefield Subdivision. There was
a motion by Mr. Moriconi and second by Mr. Bushong to accept Resolution No.
2002-R-14. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Resolution No. 2002-R-15 Supporting the Language of the Pledge of Allegiance
11.   Mr. Walker read Resolution No. 2002-R-15 supporting the language of the
Pledge of Allegiance with the words “Under God” within its text. Mr. Bushong
made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2002-R-15 as read; seconded by Mr.
Kudera. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance Setting the Trash Collection Assessment Rate for 2002/03 –
1st Reading
12.   Mayor Kriege presented a first reading of the proposed ordinance that
would set the trash collection rate at $100.80 per year. Mayor Kriege stated
this rate was contracted with Rumpke for the next two years. Mr. Walker read
the proposed ordinance. Mayor Kriege advised the second reading of the
ordinance would be presented at the September regular meeting.
Property Tax Rates for Fiscal Year 2002/03
13.   Mayor Kriege advised that since the personal property (tangible) tax
totals had not been released by the Property Valuation Assessor’s office yet,
that there would be a delay in presenting a proposed ordinance for the adoption
of the tax rates for the fiscal year. Mr. Dupps asked if a special council
meeting would be scheduled later in the month to present the rates. Mayor
Kriege stated that as soon as all the information has been received and the
rates calculated that a special meeting would most likely be called.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexation Request by Property Owner of 121 Pelly Road –
1st Reading
14.   Mayor Kriege presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance annexing 121 Pelly Road into the city, at the request of the property
owner. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance. Mr. Bushong asked how common it
was for the city to annex a parcel at the request of the property owner. Mr.
Walker stated he was not sure that this was a common request, but stated that
he has seldom seen a city deny this type of request.
Proposed Ordinance – Pre-Submission of Subdivision Site Plans
15.   Mayor Kriege stated that per council’s request at the last regular
meeting, Mr. Walker has drafted an ordinance for review that would establish a
procedure for the review of preliminary plats and other matters subject to
approval by the Kenton County & Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission. Mr.
Walker stated that he has talked with Mr. Gabbard and will revise some of the
language in the proposed ordinance and resubmit it next month for a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Vacating the Right-of Way on Pawpaw Drive – 1st Reading
16.   Mayor Kriege presented to council for a first reading an ordinance that
would vacate the right-of-way of the city to the properties located on Pawpaw
Drive. He stated that this was a request of the property owners. Mr. Walker
read the proposed ordinance. No discussion by council.
Discussion Regarding the New Municipal Center Project
17.   Mr. Moriconi suggested that the council chambers section, along with the
lower level of that section, of the proposed design of the new Municipal Center
be deleted, in an effort to cut the construction cost of the building. He
stated that he could put that in the form of a motion. Mayor Kriege replied
that it would be necessary to re-design the plans that have been drawn to date.
Mr. Moriconi suggested that by deleting the council chambers the savings could
be used to build a restroom facility in Memorial Park and to pay off the loan
the city obtained to build the Senior Center.
18.   Mr. Gabbard commented that the city is facing the impending cost of the
Industrial Road Project, which will run $78,000 per year over the next three
years. Mayor Kriege advised that the city will have the option to bond the
Industrial Road Project over a ten year period and that the city is still
exploring this option. He stated there is a possibility there will be funds
available to apply to this road project after the municipal center is complete.
19.   Mr. Bushong concurred with Mr. Moriconi and stated he has devised a new
plan to get the total project goal to 3.5M. He stated that deleting the council
chambers would save $830,000, and then the savings could be used for other
projects. Mr. Moriconi stated that he felt, at the bare minimum, restroom
facilities should be constructed in Memorial Park.
20.   Mr. Kudera asked what the final position of the amphitheatre plans were
and suggested the two projects could be combined. He expressed a desire that
the funds for the municipal center should be spent wisely and felt that council
should be prudent in the plans for the Municipal Center, in light of other
outstanding debts.
21.   Mayor Kriege asked council for a motion to authorize him to instruct
Cole+Russell Architects to re-design the Municipal Center without a council
chamber. A brief discussion ensued regarding architect fees that might be
involved in this type of re-design. Mr. Moriconi suggested that removing the
council chambers would eliminate 30% of the project. He stated that the
mechanical room, which is currently designed under the council chamber, would
have to be moved elsewhere.
22.   Mr. Gabbard stated he felt the architect fees were included in the
initial bid. Mayor Kriege advised the architect fee ($316,000) was established
based on the original cost estimate for the project. Mr. Kudera stated that he
thought the design fee was contingent on the final plan approved by council.
Mayor Kriege stated that the architect’s position is that they are due the
established design fee for the original scope of the project and that any re-
design would involve additional fees. Mr. Moriconi suggested that the city
attorney review Cole+Russell’s contract. Mayor Kriege stated that he could not
sign the change order without council approval, so he will instruct Mr. Walker
to review the architect contract, then this discussion will be resumed at the
next council meeting. Mr. Gabbard asked that the re-design cost estimate be
available in time for the special meeting in a couple of weeks. Mr. Kudera
commented that time is of the essence and that he doesn’t want to keep adding
fees only to end up with nothing. Mr. Moriconi concurred that the taxpayer’s
dollars should be spent wisely. Mayor Kriege instructed the City Clerk to poll
the council members in the coming week to arrange for a special council meeting
later this month.
Discussion Regarding Property Located at 5209 Madison Pike
23.   Mr. Gabbard asked if there has been an outcome on the request for a text
amendment by the owner of the old schoolhouse (5209 Madison Pike) that would
permit a church on the first floor and a residence on the second floor. He
expressed some concern that because of the age of the building there may be
evidence of environmental hazards. Mr. Wendling stated that it is not the
responsibility of the city to oversee this concern, as it is private property.
Mr. Gabbard commented that he did not see how the city could approve a re-
zoning request if there may be a major problem with asbestos. Mr. Walker
advised that the request before the city is a zone change and granting a zone
change relates to the use of the building not the safety of the building. He
stated that the city approves zone changes all the time without inspecting for
environmental safety violations. Mr. Gabbard stated this might become a public
safety issue for the city. Mr. Walker reiterated that zone changes are based on
the use of the property. He asked if the building currently housed residents.
Mr. Kudera replied that there are people living there. Mr. Walker stated the
city has no authority, in connection with a zone change, to be concerned with
hazardous materials. He stated that that kind of matter is addressed under the
building code regulations. Mr. Ellison commented that he felt there was problem
in permitting residential in a commercial zone with a church. Mr. Gabbard
stated that he thought the city would be responsible or liable to inspect for
possible hazardous materials. Mr. Walker stated the building is currently being
used as a pre-existing non-conforming use and he assumes the building inspector
is enforcing current building codes regarding safety.
Discussion Regarding Service Cutbacks by the Transit Authority of Northern
Kentucky (TANK)
24.   Mr. Moriconi stated that he has recently been informed through articles
and correspondence that TANK’s bus service to the Independence area will be
drastically cut, especially with the elimination of route nine. He expressed
concern that this will have a negative impact on many students of Holy Cross
School who depend on this form of transportation to Latonia. He stated that
other residents would be affected as well. Mr. Moriconi suggested the city send
a letter to TANK requesting that they reconsider this decision to eliminate
current service routes to Independence. Mr. Ellison concurred and added that
the tone of the letter should be very firm. He stated the Park & Ride lot is
full every day and the growth in this city should support continued service to
this area. Mr. Moriconi agreed and stated the Park and Ride lot is in the heart
of the city and bus service to this area may be eliminated by TANK. Mayor
Kriege concurred and stated the city will contact TANK to see if a
representative would attend the September meeting to answer council questions
regarding their plans to service the city.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
25.   Mr. Wendling reported that the sidewalk projects are complete. He stated
that another project that will soon be under way, hopefully within the next few
weeks, is the road improvements to Production Drive and Production Court. He
stated that he would meet with the businesses to brief them on the work to be
performed. Mr. Wendling advised that some of the banners along Madison Pike
were straightened today. Also, Malco Lawn Service will begin preparing the lawn
area at the Senior Center for reseeding. He stated that because the area is
filled with rocks, Malco would begin by removing as much rock as possible, and
then bring in some topsoil so the seed will take root. The reseeding will be
done sometime between mid-September and October.
26.   Mr. Gabbard asked when council could expect to receive a financial report
ending the 2001/02 fiscal period that will show actual revenue and expenses.
Mr. Wendling stated the auditor would be in the next few weeks, at which time
the actuals will be determined. Mr. Gabbard stated the city should have the
actual figures. Mayor Kriege advised that the auditor would determine the true
numbers. Mr. Wendling stated that the Finance Director is still in the process
of closing out the books for the 2001/02 fiscal year.
Discussion Regarding Hillcrest Subdivision – Phase II
27.   Mr. Ellison addressed council regarding the Phase II plan of the
Hillcrest Subdivision on Fleming Drive. He stated the original design was
presented in 1991 and he expressed concern that some conditions placed on the
development are not being met, since new construction has recently begun. His
main concern was adequate water flow in the event of a fire. Mr. Kudera stated
there are state mandates and a development procedure for every new hydrant. He
stated that hydrant tests are conducted at the time of installation. Mr.
Ellison stated that Fleming Drive also needs to be widened and a turn lane
installed. He stated that since new construction has begun he feels the city
needs to review the original plans to see that all conditions of the
development are being met.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
28.   No July meeting. Next scheduled meeting is August 19, 2002
Building & Recreation Committee
29.   Chairman, Mr. Moriconi stated that the city should possibly hear within
the next couple of months as to whether or not a grant will be awarded for
construction of the next phase of sidewalks along Madison Pike. The next
meeting is scheduled for August 27, 2002.
Personnel & Administration Committee
30.   Chairman, Mr. Bushong stated no meeting was held in July as some
committee members were out of town. He advised the meeting would be re-
scheduled.
Planning & Zoning Committee
31.   Chairman, Jim Ellison reported that the committee discussed the
annexation request by the property owner of 121 Pelly Road. He stated the
committee also met with the owner of the old school house, located at 5209
Madison Pike. He advised that the owner would like to lease this building to a
Buddhist group for use as a place of worship on the first floor and housing on
the second floor. Mr. Ellison stated the owner would decide on a specific
request and meet with the committee again. He stated that currently the area is
neighborhood commercial, which does not permit churches. He stated the property
owner would probably be seeking a conditional use.
Public Safety Committee
32.   Chairman, Mr. Dupps reported that it is estimated that 10,000 people
attended the July 4th Celebration. He advised that the golf outing fundraiser
will be held on August 25, 2002 at the Kenton County Golf Course and that they
currently have received $3,000 in donations. Mr. Dupps reported that the
Citizens Police Academy graduation will be held on October 17, 2002 and that
new defense classes (R.A.D.) are being scheduled. He announced that Tony Lucas
of the Police Department has been accepted into the Chamber of Commerce
Leadership Training. The next meeting will be held on August 20, 2002.
Public Works Committee
33.   Chairman, Mr. Gabbard stated the next meeting of this committee will be
held on Wednesday, August 14, 2002 at 6:00 p.m.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
34.   Mayor Kriege invited the council members to attend the annual awards
dinner held by the Northern Kentucky Area Development District on Monday,
August 19, 2002 at the Receptions Conference Center in Erlanger. He stated that
reservations should be made with the City Clerk by August 15, 2002.
35.   Mr. Gabbard asked if council could be provided with a report on the
rental of the Senior Center, that would list the number of groups, rental
revenue collected each month, etc. Mr. Wendling stated that he would get a
report together for council.
36.   Mr. Moriconi expressed thanks to the many volunteers who worked to make
the July 4th Celebration a success. He stated that everything went smoothly and
appreciated the volunteers and their efforts.
ADJOURNMENT
37.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Kudera the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried unanimously and the meeting ended at 7:56 p.m.
________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
         City of Independence, Kentucky
___________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
AUGUST 29, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m. Council Members
Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call.
Also in attendance was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator,
Mark T. Wendling. Council Members absent were Eric Dupps and Ike Gabbard.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   A proposed ordinance that would approve a text amendment to add an RC-
2 Zone
∙   A proposed ordinance that would approve a map amendment granting a zone
change request
∙   A proposed ordinance that would set the property tax rates for 2002
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Text Amendment to Add RC-2 Zone – 1st Reading
3.   Mayor Kriege presented this ordinance to council that would enact a text
amendment to the city zoning ordinance, Article VIII, Section 8.0 pertaining to
the establishment of zones and Article X, Section 10.19 providing for an
additional zone classification of RC-2 (Rural commercial two) zone and
permitted uses and Article XIV, section 14.7 pertaining to sign regulations and
permitted use and location of signs. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance by
title only.
4.   Mr. Kudera commented that he was concerned that only four council members
were present for this special meeting. He stated that he felt their absence may
be for political purposes and they did not want to be on record for voting for/
against important issues before the city, prior to the general election in
November. Mayor Kriege stated that Mr. Dupps called to say he had to work late.
The City Clerk stated that Mr. Gabbard had informed her after the August 5th
meeting that he would be available for a special meeting anytime in August
except for the last week, as he would be out of town that week. Mrs. Gabbard
was in the audience and concurred that her husband was out of town this week.
Mr. Kudera stated the he just wanted it very clear before votes were taken.
Mayor Kriege stated there would be no votes taken on the first reading of the
ordinances, only on the second reading at the September 9th regular meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment approving a Zone Change – Richardson Road
Area – 1st Reading
5.   Mayor Kriege presented an ordinance to council that would amend the zoning
map changing an approximate 5.4-acre area located at the southwest corner of
the intersection of Richardson Road with Old Richardson Road from R-1A to RC-2.
Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance. No discussion by council. Mayor Kriege
informed Mr. Bill Dehlinger, who applied for this zone change, and his
attorney, Marty Butler that a second reading would come before council at the
next meeting on September 9, 2002. Mr. Ellison commented that the Planning &
Zoning Committee worked closely with Mr. Butler and the Northern Kentucky
Planning Commission to add the RC-2 zone classification. He stated that the
committee recommends that council give their approval for this matter.
Proposed Ordinance – Setting the Property Tax Rates for 2002 – 1st Reading
6.   Mayor Kriege presented an ordinance to council that would set the tax
rates for both real estate and personal (tangible) for the year 2002. Mayor
Kriege stated that the 2002/03 budget was based on the revenue that would be
raised taking the compensating rate plus four percent. He stated that rate has
been calculated at $1.56 per $1,000 of assessed property value for real estate
and $3.17 per $1,000 of assessed value for personal property.
7.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to set the rates using the calculation of the
compensating rate plus four percent; seconded by Mr. Bushong. Roll call was
answered with four yes votes. Motion carried. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance.
ADJOURNMENT
8.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Moriconi the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried unanimously and the meeting was closed at 6:17 p.m.
_______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
City of Independence, Kentucky
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 9, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Thomas M. Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member, Jim Kudera, gave the invocation. Council
Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera and Chris
Moriconi answered roll call. Also present was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker
and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the August 5, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of August 5, 2002 as submitted. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Approval of the Minutes of the August 29, 2002 Special Council Meeting
3.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the minutes of the special council
meeting of August 29, 2002 as submitted. Mr. Moriconi seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried with four ayes. Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Dupps voiced a
pass, as they were not present at the special meeting.
PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
4.   Bill Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, addressed council with his displeasure
concerning the unkempt condition of the Revere Crossing development across from
his residence on Oliver Road. He voiced his objection to the piles of dirt,
overgrowth of weeds and cut wood that has been shoved to the side of the road.
Mr. Miller stated that he is aware of the fact that Oliver Road is a state
maintained road, but felt that this poor condition is a direct reflection on
the City of Independence. Mayor Kriege advised Mr. Miller that he does not want
to appear that the city is passing this off, but the city would contact the
responsible agency to handle this problem. Mr. Wendling stated he would call
the state highway department to come out and make an inspection of the area.
5.   Kathy Howard, 1887 Freedom Trail, addressed council concerning TANK’s
(Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky) recent announcement that certain bus
routes to Independence will be eliminated. She expressed her displeasure that
bus Route 9, that services the Cherokee Shopping Center, would put a hardship
on Holy Cross High School students that use that route bus to get to the school
in Latonia. She stated that the students do not have an alternate way to get to
school. Ms. Howard reported that TANK had requested a 24% increase in funds
from Kenton County Fiscal Court, but only received 8% and that TANK has cited
the lack of funds as the reason for the cutbacks in services. She questioned
TANK’s motives in not eliminating express routes that transport riders to
Cincinnati. She stated that her taxes are paying for others working in
Cincinnati and paying Cincinnati payroll taxes. In closing, Ms. Howard
commented that TANK should be held accountable for the decisions they have made
to eliminate the planned service routes to this area. Mayor Kriege stated that
a representative from TANK was present and would speak later in the meeting
regarding this issue.
6.   Tony Stenger, 5188 Madison Pike, addressed council regarding the rundown
property located at 5190 Madison Pike. He stated that he has spoken to the City
Administrator and City Building Inspector who have inspected the deteriorated
condition of this property and advised him that the property owners would be
requesting a zone change from the city so that they can raze the house and
build a duplex unit in its place. Mr. Stenger was concerned that the property
in its current condition is decreasing the surrounding property values. Mr.
Wendling responded by advising Mr. Stenger of the process the property owners
will encounter to get the zone changed for a duplex unit. He stated the owners
will make an application for the requested zone change to the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission, and then the staff will forward a recommendation to
the Kenton County Planning Commission, who in turn will make a recommendation
to the city, for either an approval or denial. He stated that the city would
then have ninety days to act on the recommendation by the Planning Commission;
and this is a three to four month process. Mr. Stenger stated that in the
meantime the house is falling apart. Mr. Moriconi asked if the house had
structural cracks. Mr. Wendling stated he would send the Zoning Administrator
to inspect it and have the Building Inspector collaborate to seek a temporary
remedy. Mr. Wendling assured Mr. Stenger that the city is making every effort
to rectify this eyesore.
TANK – (Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky) – Mr. Mark Donaghy, General
Manager
7.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mark Donaghy who is the General Manager of TANK.
He stated that Mr. Donaghy is present to inform, explain and answer any
questions council has concerning the recent service reductions on Route 9. He
stated that the budget request that they had submitted to the three counties
was not fully funded, nor has the state been matching the federal grants. He
stated they have also seen an increase in insurance premiums. Mr. Donaghy
stated that as a public agency their records are open for public review. He
stated that Kenton County contributed predominantly less this year and that
overall TANK is experiencing a $1.8M shortfall resulting in the elimination of
expansion plans, three management positions and the elimination of three bus
routes. He stated the deletion of the three bus routes would be effective on
Saturday, September 14, 2002. He stated that while Route #9 is productive, that
in comparison with other routes, its ridership is less. He stated that some
routes lost partial service while others were eliminated altogether. He stated
that during the budget process, they began with the idea of increasing
services, but was not able to achieve this due to the lack of anticipated
funds.
8.   Mayor Kriege asked when the ridership count was conducted. Mr. Donaghy
stated the most recent was taken in April. Mr. Moriconi asked if the current
growth in the Independence area was a consideration factor when deciding the
routes to be eliminated. Mr. Donaghy replied that TANK is not ignoring this
area, but with the revenue funds decreased by $1.1M that services had to be cut
back. Mr. Gabbard asked the daily start of the Day Tripper service could begin
at 7:00 a.m. instead of 8:00 a.m. Mr. Donaghy explained the Day Tripper service
is on a ‘first come, first serve” basis, and added that it is not designed for
“standing reservations.” He advised that the Covington School System purchased
$65,000 in bus service for the students.
9.   Mr. Bushong asked if TANK’s decision to cut services has been etched in
stone. Mr. Donaghy advised that the changes will take effect this Saturday and
noted that public hearings were held regarding these changes in service. Mayor
Kriege asked when the board would next review the services. Mr. Donaghy stated
that talks with the county officials should begin early next year and the
concern will be what funds will be available. Mayor Kriege asked what it would
cost to reinstate Route #9. Mr. Donaghy stated he would have to review that and
get back to the city with that information. Mr. Ellison asked when the board
would hold another public hearing. Mr. Donaghy stated it would not be necessary
to hold a public hearing until the next budget cycle. Mr. Ellison commented
that attendance at the public hearings is poor especially during the summer
months when ridership is down. Ms. Howard stated that the public hearing notice
was in the paper around July 4th when people are out of town for the holiday.
She stated she has requested the revised bus schedules so that they can try to
make other car-pool arrangements. Mr. Donaghy stated the schedules were just
received from the printer and he brought some to be distributed. Again, Mr.
Donaghy explained that the Day Tripper service is not designed for daily use
for an individual. Mr. Kudera commented that that service is expensive to
operate. Mr. Donaghy stated that it has a lower pay rate. Mr. Donaghy reassured
council that he hoped to be able to reinstate the bus services next year. Mayor
Kriege asked when the board holds its meetings. Mr. Donaghy replied that the
board meets on the second Wednesday of each month.
Discussion Regarding the Municipal Center and Additional Service Contracts
10.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. John Russell and Mr. Scott Layman from
Cole+Russell Architects who were present to explain the various additional
service contracts from which council could choose to modify the original
contract plans for the new municipal center. Mr. Layman informed council that
the service options include the following:
§   Amendment No. 1891-808 – Schematic re-design to remove the Council Chamber
wing from the original scope of work, including replacement of the break room
with the mechanical room. This additional contract service charge will be
$13,750.00.
§   Amendment No. 1891-809 – Design development and construction documents for
re-design to remove the entire Council Chamber wing from the original scope of
work, including replacement of the break room with the mechanical room. This
additional contract service charge will be $16,500.00.
§   Amendment No. 1891-810 – Prepare the construction documents to indicate the
Council Chamber wing as an Add-Alternate to the base construction bid. This
additional service will be a continuation of the building re-design from
Agreements 1891-808 and 1891-809. This additional contract service charge will
be $15,000.00.
§   Amendment No. 1891-811 – Schematic re-design and documentation to reduce
the size of the Council Chamber wing by approximately 30% on both the upper and
lower levels. The existing clerestory will be removed in the redesign.
Administration and Police offices, fitness and break rooms, lobby, council
conference room, public toilets and mechanical room are to generally remain as
currently designed. This additional contract service charge will be $15,000.00.
§   Amendment No. 1891-812 – Design development and construction document
services for re-design to reduce the size of the Council Chamber wing by
approximately 30% on both the upper and lower levels. The existing clerestory
will be removed in the redesign. Administration and Police offices, fitness and
break rooms, lobby, council conference room, public toilets and mechanical room
are to generally remain as currently designed. This additional contract service
charge will be $18,500.00.
Mayor Kriege reviewed with council each proposed service contract amendment.
Mr. Bushong asked what the overall cost would be. Mayor Kriege stated the cost
could not be determined until the architects redo the schematic design. Mr.
Russell advised that the cost estimate is based on square footage and reduced
cost can be achieved by eliminating or reducing it. Mr. Bushong stated that he
heard that the rough estimate to eliminate the council chamber wing was
$826,000. Mr. Layman stated that the estimators did not support that
approximation and that a firm construction estimate cannot be obtained until it
can be actually quantified. Mr. Moriconi questioned Amendment No. 810 that
would design the council chamber as an add on. Mr. Layman explained that it
would be similar to the clock tower in that it would be designed totally
separate from the rest of the building and then council could either accept or
decline the bid based on the funds available and the base bids received. Mr.
Moriconi commented that this Amendment makes sense to him to obtain bids to
construct the building with or without the Council Chamber. Mr. Wendling
commented that it will be complex to design the chamber wing as an add on
feature. Mr. Layman stated that the loss of the council chamber wing would
necessitate the mechanical room being relocated along with other re-design that
would be associated to facilitate loosing that wing. Mr. Moriconi voiced
concern in losing the fitness/exercise room for the police, which is currently
located under the council chamber; he suggested relocating the mechanical room
in the designated storage area for the administration department, as it appears
that department has lots of storage and future office space. Mr. Layman stated
that the elimination of the Council Chamber wing and consequently the
relocation of the mechanical room would affect the design of both sides of the
building. Mr. Russell concurred that losing the Council Chamber would
necessitate finding room for every essential element. Mayor Kriege advised the
break room would also be eliminated if the mechanical room had to be located in
its place. Mr. Moriconi questioned the need for a Planning Room. Mayor Kriege
explained that the Building Inspector would use the room to store flat plan
files and review plans. Mr. Gabbard emphasized the importance of adequate
storage space, which the city is currently lacking. He stated there is a real
need for storage now and for future expansion. He questioned the idea of
designing a building that would lack sufficient storage and other necessary
facilities.
Mr. Russell commented that he has never heard a client state that they regret
building extra storage space.
11.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Layman if the project was ready to put out to bid.
Mr. Layman stated that the construction documents are 95% complete. Mayor
Kriege asked council if they wanted to put the project out to bid. Mr. Kudera
replied yes. Mayor Kriege asked council if they wanted to proceed with the
original plan and put it out to bid. Mr. Ellison stated that they would be
deciding on a plan for a building that would last well into the future and that
it doesn’t make sense to him to build it without a council chamber wing. He
stated that he would agree that the size of the wing might need to be reduced
and that the niceties could be eliminated in an effort to control the cost.
Mayor Kriege stated that the extras, such as the clock tower, would be an add-
on bid so that council could add that feature if the overall cost of the
building is lower than projected. Mayor Kriege commented that the proposed
council chamber wing is smaller than the room in the courthouse where council
currently holds meetings. Mr. Russell advised the proposed council chamber
would accommodate sixty spectators.
12.   There was a discussion wherein the architects explained the difference
between the proposed amendments to the original service contract and that some
are continuations of the re-design from other amendments. Mr. Moriconi
suggested going with Amendment 810 that would indicate the council chamber wing
as an add-alternate to the base construction bid. Mr. Layman advised that
Amendment 810 is a continuation of Amendment 808 and 809. He stated that the
way it is structured is that it is a continuation of the design process and
that all three amendments would total $45,250. Mr. Gabbard commented that it
seems like a multitude of tasks. Mr. Russell advised that the re-design process
is much more complicated at this stage of the project than it would have been
if the plans had been outlined this way in the beginning. Mayor Kriege
commented that the project could be put out to bid as it is currently designed
and then there would be no additional fees; but if council were considering the
removal of the council chamber, then Amendment 808 and 809 would accomplish
that. Mr. Layman stated that Amendments 811 and 812 reduce the size of the
Council Chamber wing. Mr. Russell stated that would require the additional
Amendment 810 as well. Mr. Moriconi asked how the square footage of the council
chamber was determined. Mr. Russell stated that Mr. Wendling supplied the
information.
13.   Mr. Russell advised that the construction document phase is close to
completion and that the last estimate is consistent with the current estimate
so that the project should be right on budget, but he stated, it is only an
estimate. Mr. Gabbard asked if the design of the detention pond is included in
the bid document. Mr. Layman stated that the civil engineering is finished and
the drafting may be near completion. He stated that he thinks the cost of the
detention pond will be around $33,000.
14.   Mr. Moriconi commented that he would like to see some other projects in
Memorial Park, such as the construction of the amphitheater and restroom
facilities, shelter building and basketball courts accomplished in conjunction
with the construction of the Municipal Center, as well as eliminating the
Senior Center debt. Mr. Gabbard questioned eliminating a part of the Municipal
Center in order to save funds to pay off the Senior Center. Mr. Moriconi
replied that was his goal and recalled that he had proposed this at the last
council meeting. He stated that the city could save $60,000 per year. Mr.
Gabbard asked Mayor Kriege what the total payoff was on the Senior Center. Mr.
Wendling stated he did not know the exact figure but would get the information.
Mr. Kudera stated he was told the payoff was $410,000. Mr. Moriconi stated the
amphitheater would cost more to construct than the available allocation of
funds, as it will be necessary to put in an access road, etc. Mr. Gabbard
expressed concern that the city does not have the adequate funds to accomplish
all that Mr. Moriconi is proposing. Mr. Kudera stated that council needs
accurate figures to make these decisions. Mr. Bushong commented that he did not
feel that a Council Chamber wing was needed when the city has other facilities
available. Mr. Gabbard stated that he can’t make a decision regarding re-design
fees as the city needs to ensure there are adequate monies to do this. Mr.
Kudera expressed frustration that the original contract was $378,000 including
the $185,000 cost of the Taylor Smith property and yet the city is still not
committed and a building design has not been determined. Mr. Russell stated
that the original budget for this project was $3,800,000 and is now $3,867,000.
He stated that council is now considering a re-design of the project. He stated
that since the construction documents are ready to bid, he suggested putting it
out to bid at the present design and test it on the street. Mr. Layman advised
that the first design presented to the committee was estimated at $4,400,000;
the committee voluntarily made many revisions in order to bring it to the
current $3,800,000 cost. Mr. Gabbard commented that the architects have done
what was requested of them. Mr. Moriconi expressed concern that if the bids
received reach the $4,000,000 point then there will not be adequate funds to
eliminate the debt on the Senior Center and other things he would like to
accomplish in the Park. Mr. Bushong asked if eliminating the Council Chamber
would bring the project below $3,000,000. Mr. Layman stated the project is
within the budget now at only $250,000 over. Mr. Bushong stated that it has
been his position all along that the Municipal Center should be constructed for
under $3,500,000. Mr. Russell advised that the building would have to be
drastically reduced in size in order to see a substantial reduction in the
construction cost.
15.   Mayor Kriege expressed the need to finish up the project and put it out
to bid unless the council wants to take another direction. Mr. Moriconi asked
what the time frame would be for the re-design work. Mr. Dupps commented that
most of the amendments state twenty days. Mr. Layman stated they would request
an extension of thirty days. Mr. Moriconi asked if they could cut that time in
half. Mr. Russell explained that the re-design involved many aspects of the
building and would need the time. Mr. Moriconi stated he would like to see this
accomplished by the next council meeting so that a bid could be awarded at the
November council meeting. Mr. Layman advised the extension time would not be
more than stated. Mr. Bushong asked what other savings would be involved in the
re-design. Mr. Russell stated that many components make up the square footage
costs, including lights and plumbing. He stated that he would be happy to meet
with individuals to review this in detail.
16.   Mayor Kriege commented that he feels there is no support for the current
bid documents and advised that if council did not want to proceed with the
plans, that they would need to make a decision whether to re-design a smaller
council chamber or eliminate it entirely. Mr. Bushong asked what the savings
would be. Mayor Kriege stated approximately $225,000 to reduce the size of the
building. Mr. Bushong stated that would not be enough to do other projects. Mr.
Moriconi asked if the project cost included fees and soft costs. Mr. Wendling
stated that it did not. Mr. Russell advised the council chambers could be an
add-alternate on the bid and it could be reduced in size. Mr. Dupps stated that
he was in favor of that which is directed in Amendments 811 and 812. Mr. Layman
informed council that 811 and 812 was in conjunction with 810 for a total of
$48,500 in amendments. Mr. Russell encouraged council to build as much space as
possible. Mr. Gabbard recalled the city did not build storage space in the
past, which he felt was an oversight. Mr. Dupps commented that having a lot of
storage space for large items, such as Christmas decorations was one thing, but
he did not feel it was necessary to have a lot of archival space, as electronic
storage does not require a lot of space. Mr. Moriconi expressed the desire to
put this project to rest and move forward so that construction bids could be
presented in November.
17.   Mayor Kriege recapped the options available for re-design of the
building; he stated the project could be bid as is, reduce the size of the
council chamber along with the lower level of this wing or totally eliminate
the council chamber wing. He stated that re-design fees would be necessary for
all options. Mr. Wendling advised that the courtroom where the council meetings
are currently held is approximately 1,787 square feet in size.
18.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to go with Amendments 810, 811 and 812. The
motion died for lack of a second.
19.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to approve Amendments 808, 809 and 810 for a
total of $45,250; seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Mr. Ellison asked if these would
include a council chambers wing. Mr. Russell stated these amendments would
direct the re-design of the building without a council chamber and design the
council chambers as an add-on alternate, essentially requiring two sets of
construction plan documents. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and two
no votes cast by Mr. Gabbard and Mr. Ellison. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
Recess
20.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Ellison council took a brief
recess. Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Dupps the regular session
of the meeting resumed.
Amendment to the Agenda
21.   Mayor Kriege asked that the agenda be amended to take care of the
business of the second readings regarding the text and map amendments regarding
Mr. Dehlinger’s property at the Richardson Road area.
22.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to amend the agenda per Mayor Kriege’s request;
seconded by Mr. Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-18 – Text Amendment to Add an RC-2 Zone – 2nd Reading
23.   Mayor Kriege presented for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2002-O-18 that
would enact a text amendment to the zoning ordinance, Article VIII, Section 8.0
pertaining to the establishment of zones and Article X, Section 10.19 providing
for an additional zone classification of RC-2 (Rural Commercial Two) zone and
permitted uses, Article XIV, Section 14.7 pertaining to sign regulations and
permitted use and location of signs. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
24.   Council Member Kudera moved, with second from Council Member Ellison,
that Ordinance No. 2000-O-18 be approved. Roll call was answered with five yes
votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-19 – Map Amendment Approving a Zone Change Request – 2nd
Reading
25.   Mayor Kriege presented for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2002-O-19 that
would amend the zoning map of the city changing an approximate 5.4-acre area
located at the southwest corner of the intersection of Richardson Road with Old
Richardson Road, from R-1A to RC-2. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
26.   Mr. Ellison moved, with a second by Mr. Moriconi to approve for adoption
Ordinance No. 2002-O-19. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no
vote cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexing Unincorporated Territory in the Bristow &
Hogreffe Road Area – 1st Reading
27.   Mayor Kriege presented for a first reading an ordinance that would annex
and make part of the incorporated territory of the City certain unincorporated
territory lying contiguous and adjacent to the City, specifically two tracts of
lands on Bristow Road totaling approximately 32 acres. Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance and added that the owner of the property has requested
annexation by the city.
28.   Mayor Kriege opened the floor for discussion. Mr. Gabbard asked what the
property was currently zoned. Mr. Wendling advised the property is currently
zoned RCD under the county definition. Mr. Gabbard asked if it would be re-
zoned to the city classification. Mr. Wendling explained that it can be but
would not be necessary and pointed out that a portion of the recently annexed
Glenhurst Subdivision was not re-zoned to city classification. Mr. Gabbard
expressed concern that the city did not have a zone to match that zone. He
asked if the property would be used to construct homes. Mr. Wendling replied
yes. Mr. Ellison advised that Mr. Brown is willing to drop some zones. Mr. Tony
Brown, an audience participant, advised council that he is purchasing the
property from Bill Dehlinger. He stated there are thirty-two acres, which he
plans to divide into seventy-two lots. Mr. Dupps asked Mr. Brown if he had a
schematic map of the planned development. Mr. Wendling stated that he has the
plans at the city building. Mayor Kriege advised council that the Planning &
Zoning Committee has reviewed this development plan. Mr. Brown stated he plans
to construct one and two story homes on this site.
29.   Mr. Bushong expressed interest in the Hogreffe Road bridge accessing this
development. He commented on Mr. Dehlinger’s development at the intersection of
Richardson Road and Old Richardson Road and asked if the bridge on Old
Richardson Road would be used to access the development. Mr. Wendling stated
that the development would have access from the new section of Richardson Road.
Mr. Ellison commented that the bridge on Old Richardson Road is the
responsibility of the city, as it is maintained by the city.
30.   Mayor Kriege advised this ordinance would be held for a second reading at
the next regular meeting of council.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-15 Setting the Trash Collection Assessment Rate – 2nd
Reading
31.   Mayor Kriege presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2002-O-15
providing for the payment of the costs of the collection and removal of solid
waste material from residences within the city by establishing an annual
assessment charge of $100.80 upon each mobile home and residential unit.
32.   Council Member Ellison moved, with second from Council Member Bushong
that Ordinance No. 2000-O-15 be approved. Mr. Gabbard commented that no date
was noted in the ordinance regarding the years this assessment charge would be
valid. The City Clerk advised that the contract that was recently entered into
with Rumpke for the collection of waste within the city limits was for a term
of two years. She stated that the rate of $100.80 would be in effect until June
2004, so that this rate would be applicable for two years; therefore, this
ordinance would remain valid until such time that the contract is renegotiated,
making it unnecessary to note a date in the ordinance. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-16 Setting the Property Tax Rates for the F/Y 2002/03 –
2nd Reading
33.   Mayor Kriege presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2002-O-16
providing for the annual assessment of all real estate and personal property
within the city that is subject to taxation for the fiscal year beginning on
July 1, 2002 and ending on June 30, 2003. He stated that the real property rate
is established at .156 dollars for each one hundred dollars of assessed value
and the personal property rate is established at .317 dollars for each one
hundred dollars of assessed value. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance.
34.   Council Member Kudera made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2002-O-16;
seconded by Council Member Dupps. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Gabbard stated
that this is the highest increase ever seen and wanted the residents to be
aware that the established tax rates are legal. Mayor Kriege countered that the
proposed rate for real property is not the highest as it was .160/100 when he
took office. Mr. Gabbard clarified that the rate proposed (at .156/100) was the
highest increase from one year to another, than at any other time, not the
highest rate. He was concerned that the city is asking the people to pay more
than in past years. Mayor Kriege advised that the average property owner, with
a house valued at $100,000 would see a $9.00 increase this year. He explained
that that compensating rate was lowered which resulted in a significant
increase for this year. Mr. Bushong questioned if other cities had higher
rates. Mr. Gabbard stated that when you take into consideration that other
cities have a fire department, and then factor in the Independence Fire
District tax rate, the residents in Independence are paying a higher tax rate
than other cities. Mr. Kudera stated that the city’s tax rates have reduced
substantially over the years. He commented that council would need to make use
of available revenue options or forget about capital projects. Mr. Gabbard
commented that the tax rates have decreased every year but one and based on the
loss of assessed values from businesses in the Industrial Park this year, it
has cost the real estate property owners more tax dollars. He stated he just
wanted to inform the public of this. Mayor Kriege advised council that he feels
adopting the established rates of .156/100 and .317/100, which is the
compensating rate plus four percent, is the appropriate thing to do. He advised
that is a common practice for cities to take the four percent additional, and
many cities do. Roll call was taken at this time and answered with five yes
votes, with Mr. Moriconi clarifying his vote by stating for the record that he
was voting in favor of the established tax rates as he felt it was the fiscally
responsible action to take, and one no vote was cast by Mr. Gabbard. Motion
carried 5-1 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-17 – Annexation of 121 Pelly Road – 2nd Reading
35.   Mayor Kriege presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2002-O-17 that
would annex and make a part of the incorporated territory of the city certain
unincorporated territory, specifically 121 Pelly Road, lying contiguous and
adjacent to the city. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance. He stated that
the annexation of this property was a direct request by the property owner (C.
Gail Malott).
36.   Council Member Bushong moved, with second by Council Member Gabbard, that
Ordinance No. 2002-O-17 be adopted. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Vacating the Right-of-Way on Pawpaw Drive
37.   Mayor Kriege presented the next agenda item: Possible second reading of a
proposed ordinance wherein the city would vacate the right-of-way to the
properties located on Pawpaw Drive. He stated that since the first reading of
the ordinance, Mr. Wendling has been in contact with some of the other
residents on this street. Mr. Wendling advised that this ordinance was
originally introduced because of a resident request, since that time he has had
the opportunity to speak with two other residents of Pawpaw who are opposed to
the city vacating the right-of-way. Mr. Wendling advised that if the city
vacates the right-of-way it would be difficult to get it back. Mayor Kriege
stated that of the five residents on this street, two oppose and one supports
this action and the other two residents the city has not been able to reach for
comment. Mr. Walker stated his first question was would the city land lock
someone if the right-of-way were vacated. Mr. Wendling replied that the ability
is there but not a separate lot has been platted. Mr. Walker advised the
council not to vacate this right-of-way. Council Member Ellison concurred and
recommended the city keep this right-of-way as it may be needed in the future
if other lots are proposed for development.
38.   Council Member Ellison moved, with a second by Council Member Dupps to
not vacate the right-of-way on Pawpaw Drive. Roll call was answered unanimously
and the motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing a Procedure for Submission & Review of
Preliminary Plats – 1st Reading
39.   Mayor Kriege presented the next agenda item: A proposed ordinance that
would establish a procedure for submission and review of preliminary plats and
other matters subject to approval by the Kenton County Municipal Planning &
Zoning Commission. Mr. Walker read the proposed ordinance. He stated this
ordinance would formalize the process of the city’s input into plat approvals.
Mr. Gabbard cited a recent development plat approved by the Planning Commission
that could have been corrected had the city been provided the plans prior to
final approval.
40.   Mayor Kriege stated the second reading of this ordinance would be held at
the next regular meeting of council in October.
Discussion Regarding an Interlocal Agreement with Boone County Fiscal Court for
Industrial Road Improvements
41.   Mayor Kriege presented to Council, for consideration an Interlocal
Agreement with Boone County Fiscal Court that would consent to an allocation of
$234,000 to the improvements to Industrial Road. He advised that the Kentucky
Transportation Cabinet has committed up to $10,000,000 in state and federal
funds to carry out the needed improvements and that this contract would require
a total local commitment of $2,000,000. He stated that Independence’s portion
of $234,000 would be payable over a three year period (at $78,000 per year) and
due on the first of January for the next three years (2003-2004-2005). He
stated the improvements to Industrial Road would benefit all the entities
(Boone County, Kenton County, City of Elsmere, City of Florence and City of
Independence) involved. Mayor Kriege requested a motion to authorize him to
enter into this agreement.
42.   Council Member Kudera moved, with a second from Council Member Gabbard to
authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into this contract with the needed funds being
taken from the fiscal year budget over the next three years. Mr. Bushong asked
how this would benefit the city. Mayor Kriege advised that the Industrial Park
is a major tax base for the city and is a good east/west thoroughfare that is
heavily traveled. Mr. Gabbard commented that the heavy tractor-trailers have
deteriorated this road and it needs to be improved. Mr. Kudera stated that this
is a small price to pay for these major improvements. Mr. Ellison commented
that the roads are old and was not originally designed to handle this volume of
traffic. Mr. Dupps asked if the future improvements to Turkeyfoot Road have
been considered. Mayor Kriege stated that he believed it had. Mr. Dupps asked
how each entity’s share was determined. Mayor Kriege advised that each entity’s
tax base was the basis to determine shares. Mr. Wendling stated the combination
of payroll and property taxes revenue was the basis. Mayor Kriege stated this
would be a state job the engineering firm of Bayer-Becker overseeing the
project.
43.   Roll call was taken and answered with four yes votes and two no votes
cast by Mr. Bushong and Mr. Dupps. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
44.   Mr. Wendling presented a list of police vehicles to council to be
declared as surplus property. The list consisted of four cruisers and one horse
trailer. Mr. Ellison suggested keeping one of the old cruisers as a spare city
vehicle. He stated that the Recreation Department could especially make use of
this vehicle when hauling park equipment. Police Chief Butler stated he would
review the mileage records on each vehicle so that he could recommend which
would be the better to keep.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
45.   Mayor Kriege stated this committee did not meet in August, but would like
to schedule a meeting on September 16, 2002 to review the recent audit that was
conducted.
Building & Recreation Committee
46.   Chairman Chris Moriconi reported that the developers of the Glenhurst
Subdivision will deed over to the city fifteen acres for recreational use and
they will assist the city in the development of this land. He stated the
committee has submitted a list of desired facilities for this park, many of
which would be more economical for the developer to accomplish. He stated that
this addition to the city’s parks system would place recreational facilities on
the west side of the city. He stated the committee would wait to hear back from
the developer.
47.   He reported the annual Christmas Walk and Tour has been scheduled for
December 6, 2002 on a Friday evening. He stated the Special Events Committee
plan to have booths on the Park and Ride lot. Mr. Moriconi announced that plans
are underway to dedicate the Marion Schadler Park in the Lakefield Subdivision,
possibly in November. Mr. Moriconi reported that a Memorial Service would be
held on September 11, 2002 at Memorial Park observing the one-year anniversary
of the 9/11 tragedy. He stated there would be a tree dedication and encouraged
everyone to attend this service.
48.   Mr. Gabbard expressed concern about the lake on the property in the
Glenhurst Subdivision that will be developed as a park. Mr. Wendling stated
that it is a small pond that will serve as a detention pond. Mr. Gabbard stated
he was concerned about the liability that may be associated with this pond. Mr.
Wendling stated he has spoken with the city’s insurance carrier, who stated the
city is currently insured for this type of liability so there will not be an
increase in premiums. Mr. Moriconi commented that the lake is below grade and a
creek is running beside it.
49.   Mr. Moriconi asked Mr. Wendling if the entrance into the Falcon Ridge
Subdivision would be replaced with concrete as was originally there before the
reconstruction of Bristow Road. Mr. Wendling stated yes. Mr. Moriconi also
expressed concern that Shaw Road is beginning to sink in places where the water
lines were installed. Mayor Kriege stated the city would contact the Water
District to examine the road condition.
Personnel & Administration Committee
50.   Chairman Jim Bushong stated there was no report.
Planning & Zoning Committee
51.   Chairman Jim Ellison stated there was no report.
Public Safety Committee
52.   Chairman Eric Dupps reported that the golf outing showed a profit of
$4,000. He also reported that the fifth class of the Citizens Police Academy
commenced on August 22, 2002 with 23 participants enrolled. He stated the
academy currently has 100 graduates, 60 of which are active in the alumni
group. He reported that the Kentucky Crime Coalition recognized the academy and
alumni Randy Gehrig as volunteer of the year.
53.   Council Member Dupps announced that Assistant Police Chief Dave Nichols
would graduate from the FBI police program on Friday, September 13, 2002. He
also announced that RAD defense classes are being held.
54.   Mr. Dupps stated that the police department has received early notice
that the city will be in receipt of grant funds to cover the cost of two school
resource officers over the next three years. Chief Butler stated the grant will
total $250,000 over three years and will be used for salary and benefits for an
officer at Simon Kenton High School and one officer will split his/her time
between Summit View, Beechgrove and Kenton Elementary schools. Mr. Gabbard
asked if these officers would be permanent hires or contracted. Chief Butler
stated that Kenton and Boone Counties have hired on a contract basis, but he is
not sure yet how he wants to hire these positions. He stated he would look at
how to structure this program.
55.   Mr. Dupps advised the next meeting of the Public Safety Committee is
scheduled for September 17, 2002.
Public Works Committee
56.   Chairman Ike Gabbard reported that Mr. Jeff Smith, Recreation Crew Leader
provided the committee with a list of accomplishments. He stated the department
has removed over 100 signs that were posted illegally throughout the city. He
also reported the committee discussed the poor condition of Crowe Road and
stated that with only four or five houses on this road it would not be cost
efficient to make major repairs that are needed. The committee also discussed
the planned improvements to Industrial Road and agreed that the city should
contribute to this major project. In closing, he reported that the committee
also discussed the possibility of re-opening the closed portion of Old
Richardson Road sometime in the future.
Surplus Property
57.   Chief Butler stated that he went to his office to review the mileage
reports on the four vehicles to be declared as surplus in order to give a
recommendation to council as to which one would be the better to retain as a
spare city vehicle. He stated that he recommends keeping the 1994 Ford Crown
Victoria as it has 160,000 miles and Ford replaced the engine at 50,000. He
stated the remaining vehicles are more worn.
58.   Mr. Ellison stated that retaining one of the vehicles, as a spare was
only a suggestion. Mr. Kudera was concerned how keeping this vehicle would
affect the Chief’s budget, as he would lose the revenue this would produce at
auction. Chief Butler commented that this vehicle would not yield much in
proceeds from the auction. Mr. Dupps commented that keeping the vehicle might
create some liability or require maintenance dollars that the city cannot
afford.
59.   Mr. Ellison moved to keep the 1994 Ford Crown Victoria as a city vehicle,
seconded by Mr. Gabbard. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-
0 in favor.
60.   Mr. Gabbard moved to declare the list of vehicles submitted as surplus,
except for the 1994 Ford Crown Victoria. Mr. Dupps seconded the motion. Roll
call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
Executive Order No. 2002-EO-02
61.   Mayor Kriege presented to council for approval an Executive Order
appointing the following members to the Senior Board of Directors: Geneva
Gibson, Chris Grubbs, Elizabeth Patterson and Phil Turner.
62.   Council Member Bushong moved, with second made by Council Member Dupps
that Executive Order No. 2002-EO-02 be approved. Mr. Bushong inquired about the
fundraising efforts of the Board and if they had a goal to meet. Senior
Director, Joan Bowling advised the Board’s next fundraising undertaking would
be a Halloween Party, but that the Board has not set a financial goal with
regard to fundraising. Mr. Bushong speculated as to whether or not the Senior
Board would continue to raise funds if the city paid off the debt on the
building. He asked Ms. Bowling what kind of participation she was seeing. Ms.
Bowling stated that the program is gradually building and sees the highest
attendance on Tuesday and Thursday with approximately 25-30 seniors. She stated
that she saw a significant decrease during vacations in the summer months. She
stated there is low attendance on Friday due to the euchre tournament held by
the Walton Senior Center on that day.
63.   Mr. Kudera asked who the other members were on the Board. Mr. Wendling
stated Donna Yeager, Kurt Keeney, Biz Cain, Mary Hellman, Ed Currin and Brandon
Voelker. Mr. Kudera asked what happened to Randall Wagner. Mayor Kriege advised
that Mr. Wagner elected not to be reappointed and that Geneva Gibson has
accepted the invitation to be a member of the Board.
64.   Roll call on the motion and second to approve Executive Order No. 2002-
EO-02 was answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Mr. Ellison and
Mr. Gabbard. Mr. Gabbard stated that he voted no because he believes that
council has no authority to vote on executive orders, only municipal orders.
Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
KLC Convention – Contribution Request for Opening/Closing Receptions
65.   Mayor Kriege advised council that the Host Committee for the Kentucky
League of Cities Convention has requested that all Northern Kentucky cities to
contribute financially to the cost of the opening and closing receptions. He
stated the committee has recommended a cost for each city, which is based on a
population scale. He stated that according to the scale, the City of
Independence would contribute $1,500. Mayor Kriege advised this amount could be
taken from the Administration miscellaneous line item and requested a motion to
make this contribution. Council Member Kudera moved, with a second by Council
Member Bushong to approve the $1,500 contribution to the KLC Convention
receptions. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by
Council Member Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Announcements
66.   Mayor Kriege announced that the Municipal Government League of Northern
Kentucky would host the next dinner meeting on September 19, 2002. He advised
everyone that would like to attend to inform the City Clerk so that she can
make the reservation.
67.   Mayor Kriege also announced that OKI Regional Council of Governments
would hold a public forum regarding the future of growth in the Greater
Cincinnati region at Summit View Middle School on September 25, 2002 from 7:00
p.m. until 9:00 p.m. He encouraged everyone to attend and take advantage of
this opportunity to voice their ideas and opinions regarding regional land use
and transportation in Northern Kentucky.
Discussion Regarding an Interlocal Group Study Regarding Sexually Oriented
Businesses
68.   Mayor Kriege presented to council the idea of joining a group effort with
other local cities and Kenton County to hire an outside agency to perform a
study of the area in an effort to assist and make decisions on where sexually
oriented business zones should be located. He stated that this is definitely a
controversial issue with all communities. He advised that Independence’s share
of this study would be $3,317.33. Mr. Moriconi commented that the Supreme Court
states that the city is required to provide a place for this type of business.
He stated that the study would define sections in the local areas. Mr. Moriconi
commented that all the local cities are on board with conducting this joint
study except Boone County, who opted out. Mr. Gabbard expressed concern with
joining this group effort, only to have the recommended site for this type of
business be located in Independence. Mr. Moriconi stated that if the city
conducts a private study then we would bear the entire cost of such a study.
Mayor Kriege was concerned that the city is currently unprepared for this type
of business locating in the city. He stated that the City of Wilder was not
prepared and was unable to prohibit the business when it arrived. Mr. Dupps
stated that the city needs to be ready, and commented that the City of
Covington was recently forced to act on this issue before the study was
completed. Mr. Ellison commented that addressing this matter is going to be a
challenge for the city and felt it would be more cost effective to be involved
in a group study. Mr. Wendling stated that if the city does not join the group
study then we would have no influence and the zone may well end up in our city.
Mayor Kriege stated that he recommends the city join this group study. Mr.
Gabbard asked where the funds would be taken to pay the city’s share. Mayor
Kriege stated he would review the budget.
69.   Mr. Ellison moved, with a second by Mr. Moriconi to join an interlocal
agreement for the study of sexually explicit zones in the area, with the cost
submitted at the next council meeting for a decision by council. Further
discussion ensued. Mr. Gabbard expressed his concerns. Mayor Kriege emphasized
the need to be a part of this study and see what the recommendation will be.
Mr. Bushong stated it will take three months to conduct this study and that an
ordinance format will be presented to each entity for adoption. Mr. Gabbard
stated that he felt the city should continue to look at this issue in the
interim even if we do participate in the joint study. Mr. Moriconi stated the
study would involve visits to every city in order to designate a site in each
city. Mr. Walker advised that he is of the understanding that every city will
not have a zone because of the definition of “community”, but did caution that
he feels Independence is at great risk of having an area in the city getting
this zone designation, mainly due to the size of the city and available green
space. He stated that Independence might be sidestepped if a zone is
recommended for South Covington or Taylor Mill. He stated that in other areas
of the state, such as Louisville, these types of businesses have been located
in the industrial zones where people work during the day and do not live in the
area. Mr. Dupps stated the city should join the study. At this time roll call
was taken and answered unanimously in favor.
Adjournment
70.   Upon motion by Mr. Bushong and second by Mr. Gabbard the meeting was
adjourned with unanimous approval of council, the time being 10:26 p.m.
________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
OCTOBER 7, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Thomas M. Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Rev. Lisa May of Staffordsburg United Methodist Church
gave the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike
Gabbard, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also present was
City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 9, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mr. Dupps made a motion to approve the minutes of the regular council
meeting of September 9, 2002, seconded by Mr. Bushong. Regarding the suggestion
and ensuing motion by Mr. Ellison to retain one of the surplus police cruisers,
Mr. Ellison asserted that his intent was for that vehicle to be used
exclusively by Nita Brake, having all the privileges of a take home vehicle. He
requested that this be made clear in the minutes. Mayor Kriege stated that he
understood Mr. Ellison’s motion to declare the vehicle as a pool car. He stated
that take home vehicles should be for employees that are on-call for emergency
situations and recreation does not fall under this purpose. Mr. Gabbard
concurred with Mr. Ellison and stated that he thought Ms. Brake would have
exclusive use of the spare vehicle. After a brief discussion, Mayor Kriege
advised Mr. Ellison that he could re-address this matter later in the meeting
under old business. Mr. Moriconi and Mr. Dupps brought forth other amendments.
The amendments were noted and roll call was answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0 to approve the council minutes as amended.
Presentation of the 2001/02 Audit by Linda Chapman of Rankin, Rankin & Company
3.   Mayor Kriege introduced Ms. Linda Chapman of Rankin, Rankin and Company
who performed the audit of the city’s financial records for the year ending
June 30, 2002. He informed council that Ms. Chapman had met with the Budget &
Finance Committee to review the audit results and is here to present the
findings to the full council.
4.   Ms. Chapman distributed the presentation package of the audit and reviewed
the highlights with council. She reported that the city saw a cash decrease of
$598,000 due to general operations during the last fiscal year. She stated that
the investments increased by $4,700,000 due to the $5,000,000 loan proceeds for
the Municipal Center Fund and advised that as the money is spent on the project
that investment will decrease. Ms. Chapman indicated that the general fixed
assets, a GASB accrual requirement, is noted at $3,112,828, an increase of
$1,029,192. She reported that the city had a $192,207 decrease in
intergovernmental revenues because the grants for the Senior Center and the
COPS (Community Oriented Policing) expired. She also stated that the total
liabilities line increased from $7,500,000 to $12,100,000 due to the completion
of the Senior Center. She stated that the fund equity balance was inflated this
year due to the $5,000,000 municipal center loan proceeds, a temporary
condition that will decrease to a more normal level as the loan proceeds are
spent. Ms. Chapman advised that the overall revenues decreased 5% due to the
close of the Senior Center grant; in addition the city lost 49% of interest
income. She advised that the 2001 expenditures of $4,746,000 increased to
$5,655,000 in 2002 with capital expenses going from $871,000 to $1,244,000. She
stated the increase in capital expenditures was due to the three outstanding
leases on police vehicles and the first full year of mortgage payments on the
Senior Center. She advised that other losses included the $405,000 in general
funds, $633,000 funds transferred out of the general fund (due to the Senior
Center and Street repairs) and a loss of $117,000 in Municipal Road Fund
revenue. She stated that it is not unusual to see this type of loss for the
road fund.
5.   Ms. Chapman reported that the revenues were largely from real estate taxes
(55%), with 24% coming from charges for services and the remainder of the
revenue coming from grants. She stated that the debt service expenses are
creeping up mainly due to the additional leases taken out. The general fund
loss was anticipated to be $351,000 with the actual figure being $405,000.
Special revenues were anticipated to be $240,000 and actual was $123,000; debt
service funds were anticipated to be $151,000 with the actual being $235,000;
and, capital funds anticipated at $438,000 and the actual being $4,355,000 due
to the lease proceeds. Ms. Chapman explained that many of the variances were
attributed to the car leases and Senior Center expenses and municipal lease
proceeds.
6.   Mr. Gabbard questioned the notation on page 23 of the audit report
regarding compliance. Ms. Chapman stated that this is a repeat comment from
last year’s audit. She explained that the $210,000 lease obtained with Fifth
Third Bank for the purchase of police cruisers was money that was not
physically run through the city’s books. She stated that the bank holds the
funds until the vehicles are ready for delivery and when the bank obtains the
invoice from the car dealer, the bank issues a cashier’s check from a special
account set up to house the lease funds. She stated that this practice by the
bank results in the expense not showing up on the city’s financial records.
7.   Mr. Gabbard asked Ms. Chapman how long the city could make the payments on
the loans obtained for the Senior Center and Municipal Center at the current
level of revenue. Ms. Chapman replied that at the current rate of transfers-out
of the excess funds, that she would guesstimate 3-5 years, but emphasized that
is without crunching the numbers. Mr. Gabbard asked if a tax increase would be
necessary. Ms. Chapman stated that finding a revenue source or cutting expenses
could be a course of action.
8.   Mayor Kriege commented that the fund balance has grown over $500,000 and
feels the city needs to recognize the growth along with other factors that
could be considered. Ms. Chapman stated she was basing her response on the
current year results. Mr. Gabbard commented that the spurt of current
residential construction is not bringing in adequate revenue. He stated he had
reservations about paying off the debt on the Senior Center since the interest
rate is so low, at 4.16%. Ms. Chapman stated it could be an option and might
afford more concentration in reducing the debt on the $5,000,00 loan for the
municipal center.
9.   Mr. Bushong asked where the sewer fund balance was noted in the audit. Ms.
Chapman stated the sewer debt service funds were on page 19 of the full audit.
She stated the ending fund balance at June 30, 2002 was $1,194,450.
10.   There being no further questions or discussion, Mayor Kriege requested a
motion to approve the audit as presented. Mr. Bushong moved with second by Mr.
Moriconi to accept the audit for the year ending June 30, 2002 as presented.
Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
11.   Thelma and Robert Gibson, 5123 Madison Pike addressed council regarding a
letter they received from the city about property they own at 5190 Madison
Pike. Mrs. Gibson stated that the house is rental property, has not been
abandoned and there is no rubbish on the property. She stated the roof has been
repaired and they are aware the house is in need of additional repairs and are
trying to rectify the condition. She stated that this property was jointly
owned but have recently bought out the other owner and are currently the sole
owner of the property. She reported that they had made a down payment with a
contractor to do some renovations and the contractor did nothing, so they are
trying to recover this loss in small claims court. Mrs. Gibson stated that they
have met with the City Administrator and the Planning & Zoning Committee to
discuss their proposal to demolish the current house and build a two-family
house. She said there are two sewer taps on the property. She advised that they
have discussed their plans to construct a duplex with the adjoining neighbors
and did not receive any negative comments from them. Mrs. Gibson stated that
she has since heard that a neighbor has come before council to make a complaint
regarding the condition of the property. She also commented that the county has
increased the assessed value – from $40,000 to $60,000. Mrs. Gibson requested
council to grant an extension of 120 days to comply with this zoning violation
in order to arrange for the removal of the house from the property.
12.   Mr. Gabbard commented that he did not have a problem with Mrs. Gibson’s
request. Mrs. Gibson stated she has spoken individually with some of the
council members, whom also stated they had no problem with this request. She
stated that they are not slum landlords and feels if given time they could
build a new structure.
13.   Mayor Kriege advised that the Gibson’s would need to apply for a zone
change in order to build a two family structure in a single residential zone.
Mrs. Gibson stated she is aware of that, but has been informed that the final
approval for a duplex will be decided by the city council.
14.   Mrs. Gibson advised that her attorney has responded to the Building
Inspector’s letter regarding the zoning violation and to date has not received
a response. Mayor Kriege asked if the building was secure. She stated that it
is. Mayor Kriege asked Mrs. Gibson what alternate plans she had if the zone
change was denied. Mr. Gibson replied they would consider two smaller houses on
fifty-foot lots. Mr. Moriconi asked the Gibson’s if they had considered selling
the property. Mrs. Gibson stated that they had the property up for sale in the
past, but that it took some time to buy out the other owner. She stated that
they also have not been able to get good renters for this four-room house.
15.   Mr. Moriconi asked if they had received notice from the Property
Valuation Assessor’s office regarding the increase in assessment. Mrs. Gibson
stated they had not. Mr. Moriconi stated that he did not have an objection to
the demolition of the current building but inquired why they wanted to build a
duplex near single-family homes. She stated this would not be the usual square
duplex but a nice design.
16.   Mayor Kriege stated that the Building Inspector is willing to grant the
Gibson’s an extension to comply with this zoning violation, but has expressed
some concern regarding existing liabilities and has spoken to the City Attorney
regarding this. Mr. Wendling stated that the current state of the building
presents safety problems for future tenants. Mr. Bushong questioned the city’s
liability if a 120-day extension is granted. Mr. Walker advised that the city
is obligated to see that buildings are safe and inhabitable and determine if
the condition is dangerous or just an attractive nuisance, nevertheless, the
city’s liability would be secondary to that of the property owners. Mrs. Gibson
stated that the interior of the house is in no condition to be lived-in, but
felt the exterior was not any worse than others in the area.
17.   Mayor Kriege asked council if there were any objections to granting the
Gibson’s a 120-day extension. Upon motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr.
Bushong a 120-day extension was granted to the Gibson’s to demolish the house
located at 5190 Madison Pike. Roll call was answered unanimously and the motion
carried 6-0 in favor. Mr. Kudera advised the Gibson’s that this extension does
not assure approval of a zone change for the duplex that they wish to build on
this site. He stated that they would need to go through the process and should
not assume the council will approve the zone change.
Ordinance No. 2002-O-20 – Annexing 2 Tracts (32.5 Acres) of Land in the Bristow
Rd/Hogreffe Rd Area
18.   Mayor Kriege presented to council for a second reading a proposed
ordinance that would annex approximately thirty-three acres along the Bristow
Road and Hogreffe Road connector road. He stated that this annexation is at the
request of the property owner who will develop a subdivision known as The Oaks.
19.   Mr. Moriconi moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2002-O-20, with second by Mr.
Ellison. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Presentation by Glenhurst Development Regarding the Proposed Park in the
Glenhurst Subdivision
20.   Mayor Kriege advised that this discussion would be postponed until
another meeting, as the Glenhurst representatives are not yet ready to make
this presentation.
Proposed Ordinance Regarding the Pre-Submission of Subdivision Site Plans
21.   Mayor Kriege presented for a second reading an ordinance that would
establish a procedure for the submission and review of preliminary plats and
other matters that would be subject to approval by the Kenton County and
Municipal Planning and Zoning Commission. Mr. Walker read the proposed
ordinance and advised council that this ordinance would just formalize what the
Planning & Zoning Commission does. Mr. Kudera asked if this ordinance would be
enforceable, as it seems to him that this is redundant and impractical, as the
city already has the right to deny or approve development plans. Mr. Gabbard
stated that the city does not always have all the necessary information to make
the decisions, as most of council does not attend the public hearings held by
the Planning Commission. Mayor Kriege stated that council can attend those
meetings or choose to have a separate public hearing within the given time
period. He stated that the city’s Planning & Zoning Committee currently reviews
plans when they meet with the developers. Mr. Gabbard referred to a recent
development, which revealed many things, but not all the details needed for
council to make a good decision. Mr. Walker commented that this ordinance is
‘extra statutory’, adding to the process developers currently follow. He
advised that state statutes define the process for the developers and, in his
opinion; the city would not be able to stop a development if the developer has
acted in accordance with KRS. Mr. Gabbard stated that he felt it was worth the
effort. Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Walker if other cities have adopted similar
ordinances. He stated he did not know.
22.   Mr. Gabbard moved, with second by Mr. Ellison to adopt the proposed
ordinance to establish a procedure for pre-submission of subdivision site
plans. Roll call was answered with three yes votes and three no votes cast by
Mr. Kudera, Mr. Moriconi and Mr. Bushong. Mayor Kriege broke the tie vote by
casting a no vote, stating that he felt this legislation was unnecessary. The
proposed ordinance was defeated by a 4-3 vote.
Discussion Regarding Regal Ridge Drive – Steve Powell of Powell Homes
23.   Mr. Steve Powell addressed council regarding his plans to construct
thirteen single-family homes on Regal Ridge Drive. He informed council that the
Planning Commission has approved his plan with the stipulation that the street
be improved to meet subdivision standards. He stated that he assumed Regal
Ridge Drive was a city maintained street but has since learned that it is a
public dedicated right of way. He stated that he is here to seek assurance from
the council that the city will accept the street for maintenance, before he
makes the investment in upgrades to this road. He stated that this is not a
through street as it dead-ends into the Regal Ridge Apartment complex. He
advised the street is 1600 feet long and that the city currently maintains 143
feet. Mr. Dupps asked what the property is currently zoned. Mr. Powell stated
the property is R-1D. Mr. Ellison asked about the storm water drainage. Mr.
Powell responded that this is not a concern as there are two lateral lines
across the street and a ditch line. He assured council that everything has been
approved and in order with the Planning Commission and he plans to have the
road improvements completed in November. Mr. Gabbard expressed concern that
Area Planning (NKAP) does not have sufficient staff to oversee the road pours.
Mr. Moriconi asked if the street would be concrete or asphalt. Mr. Ellison
asked if the homes would be built first then the street poured. Mr. Powell
advised the street would be constructed of asphalt, and he would delay the
topcoat, until heavy equipment construction is complete. He stated that it
would take 2-3 years to finish the home building, mostly single story houses
ranging in price from $130,000 to $180,000. Mr. Kudera asked if the hillside
slippage was part of the development plans. Mr. Powell stated it was not.
24.   Mr. Gabbard moved, with second by Mr. Ellison to accept Regal Ridge Drive
for street maintenance after the improvements are complete and have been
approved. Roll call was answered unanimously with the motion carrying 6-0 in
favor.
Discussion of Vehicle for Recreation Department
25.   Mr. Ellison made a motion to permit Nita Brake of the Recreation
Department to have exclusive use of the spare city vehicle. Mr. Gabbard
seconded the motion. Mr. Bushong expressed concern that this older vehicle is
high maintenance and felt the fewer miles put on this car the better. Mr. Dupps
felt the vehicle would be more secure as a take home car, than having the car
sit in the parking lot of the city building. Roll call was answered with five
yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Kudera. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
Discussion Regarding the Transfer of Special Funds
26.   Mr. Bushong inquired as to whether the transfer of funds between the
Building Fund and the Municipal Center Bond for the purchase of the Taylor
Smith property had occurred. Finance Director, Janet Rebman replied that the
purchase of the property was partially funded out of the Building Fund. Mr.
Wendling advised that the auditor confirmed that this procedure was acceptable.
27.   Mr. Bushong made a motion to pay down the sewer debt with accrued funds
in the Sewer Fund; seconded by Mr. Moriconi. Mr. Ellison suggested the city
delay that action until the regional storm water study currently being
conducted is complete, as the city may be responsible for repairs. Mr. Bushong
commented that he was not aware of a storm water study. Mr. Ellison stated that
the inception of this study was before Mr. Bushong took office. Mayor Kriege
stated that the reserve balance in the Sewer Fund continues to grow and advised
that council should review this matter and develop a plan for retirement of
this debt. Mr. Bushong offered to withdraw his motion. Mayor Kriege suggested
that he amend his motion to review the funds with the Auditor and Finance
Director. Mr. Kudera commented that the ordinance should be reviewed to see if
the Sewer Funds can be used in this manner and that there are no prepayment
penalties involved. Mr. Bushong stated that penalties should only come into
play if the loan is paid in full. Mayor Kriege stated that the city’s goal was
to pay this loan off within fifteen years, as more and more properties were
tied into the sewer line. Mr. Bushong amended his motion to review the Sewer
Fund with the Finance Director and Auditor and develop a plan to use the sewer
fund revenue to pay down the sewer debt. Roll call was answered with four yes
votes and two no votes by Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 4-2 in
favor.
Cancellation of November 4, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
28.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to cancel the regular meeting of November 4,
2002 and reschedule for Monday, November 11, 2002; seconded by Mr. Ellison.
Mayor Kriege advised the November 11 meeting would become a special meeting.
Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Dupps.
Motion carried 5-1.
Sidewalks along Madison in from of the BP Gas Station
29.   Mr. Ellison stated that the city delayed enforcement of the construction
of the sidewalks in front of the BP gas station until after Madison Pike was
reconstructed to add the turning lane and since that is now complete he
suggested the city require the BP station to install the sidewalks. Mr.
Wendling stated he would look into this matter.
Zoning Violation
30.   Mr. Ellison stated that a trailer type of sign parked in the Beechgrove
Shopping Center is in violation of the zoning ordinance and also a sign needs
to be removed. Mayor Kriege stated he would see that the matter is resolved.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
31.   Mr. Wendling advised that he has included a 2003 Calendar of Events with
his monthly report. Mr. Bushong asked if the reconstruction of the roadway into
the Falcon Ridge Subdivision was complete. Mayor Kriege replied no. Mr.
Wendling stated the asphalt has not been put down.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Budget & Finance Committee
32.   Mayor Kriege stated the auditor reviewed the 2001/02-audit report with
the committee, which was presented to the council earlier in this meeting.
Building & Recreation Committee
33.   Mr. Moriconi asked if the Water District would be repairing Shaw Road and
Route 17 near Simon Kenton High School. Mr. Wendling stated that the repairs
should be by the end of the month.
34.   Mr. Moriconi advised that the city would be deeded a fifteen acre park in
the Glenhurst Subdivision and that a representative from Glenhurst would attend
the next meeting to update council regarding the plans for this park.
35.   Mr. Wendling advised he would be meeting with Cole+Russell Architects
regarding the Municipal Center project.
Personnel & Administration Committee
36.   Mr. Bushong stated the meeting date was changed at Mr. Wendling’s request
and the committee is now scheduled to meet on October 22, 2002
Planning & Zoning Committee
37.   Mr. Ellison stated there is no report.
Public Safety Committee
38.   Mr. Dupps reported that Assistant Police Chief, Dave Nichols graduated
from the FBI Academy. He also reported that the Citizens Police Academy meets
on October 17 and the next self-defense (RAD) class is scheduled for November
4. He advised that the committee is discussing the School Resource Officer
program and options for manning those positions. Mr. Dupps stated the next
committee meeting is scheduled for October 15, 2002.
Public Works Committee
39.   Mr. Gabbard stated there is no report and that the committee is scheduled
to meet on November 13, 2002.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Thomas M. Kriege
40.   Mayor Kriege announced that a Candidate Forum has been scheduled for
Monday, October 21, 2002 and he expressed thanks to Phil Turner of Farmers
National Bank for sponsoring this opportunity for the mayor and council
candidates. Mr. Gabbard asked who would moderate the forum. Mayor Kriege stated
that Tim Moore of the Kenton County schools has agreed to be the moderator. He
also advised that the candidates would be receiving an informational packet
about the forum in the mail within the next couple of days.
41.   Mayor Kriege advised council that the annual Appreciation/Swearing In
Dinner has been scheduled for December 12, 2002 and will be held in St.
Cecilia’s undercroft.
Executive Session
42.   Mayor Kriege stated there was a need to have an executive session. Mr.
Bushong moved and Mr. Kudera seconded to enter into an executive session
according to K.R.S. 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing pending
litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
43.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Dupps the regular session of
the council meeting resumed. Motion carried unanimously.
Adjournment
44.   Mr. Ellison moved and Mr. Dupps seconded to adjourn the meeting. Motion
carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 9:30 p.m.
_______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
NOVEMBER 11, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Tom Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Council Members Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera
and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Council Member Jim Bushong was absent.
Also in attendance was attorney Jeffrey S. Smith sitting in for his associate,
City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
2.   Mayor Kriege stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   New Municipal Center
∙   Memorial Park Development Plan
∙   Scherry Avenue
∙   Ordinance No. 2-12-78 and the annexation of land in the Madison Pike area
as it relates to property owned by Karen and Greg Lipscomb and John Schoborg
∙   Fowler Creek Sewer Debt and Pay-off Options
∙   Executive Session
∙   Police Department School Resource Officer
∙   Zone Change on Cox Road
Discussion Regarding the New Municipal Center
3.   Mayor Kriege introduced Mr. Scott Layman of Cole+Russell Architects. Mr.
Layman presented to council for their review the Notice to Bidders
advertisement for bids for the construction of the new municipal center. He
stated the bid document would request a base bid and three alternate bids. The
three alternate bids are for a clock tower, storm water detention basin and
removal of the council chamber wing.
4.   Mr. Gabbard inquired about the removal of storage space. Mr. Layman stated
the reduced floor plan would result in the loss of storage rooms in the
alternate bid that removes the council chamber wing. Mr. Gabbard stated this is
not reflected in the notes. Mr. Layman advised that removal of the council
chamber would delete storage space on both floors. Mr. Ellison asked if the bid
specs contained a provision to add on the council chamber wing in the future.
Mr. Laymen stated that the council could decide when the bids come in whether
or not to delete that alternate bid.
5.   Mr. Moriconi inquired about the DD comparison column noted on the Opinion
of Probable Construction Costs document dated November 7, 2002. Mr. Layman
advised that this design development comparison was a gauge for evaluation
purposes only. Mr. Moriconi asked if the DD comparison changed any after the
project was pared back. Mr. Layman stated that it defines the construction
documents as designed and it was further refined.
6.   Mayor Kriege requested authorization from the council to advertise the
Notice to Bidders advertisement as presented. Mr. Wendling stated that the pre-
bid meeting noted in the advertisement would be changed to December 3, 2002
instead of November 29, 2002.
7.   Upon motion by Council Member Moriconi and second by Council Member
Kudera, council authorized the advertisement of the Notice to Bidders as
presented for the construction of the new municipal center. Roll call was
answered with four yes votes and one no vote cast by Mr. Ellison. Motion
carried 4-1 in favor.
Discussion Regarding the Memorial Park Development Plan
8.   Mayor Kriege introduced Ehmet Hayes of the architect firm of Robert Ehmet
Hayes & Associates. Mr. Hayes proposed taking a global look at the Memorial
Park Master Plan by creating a development plan that would provide more
detailed information as far as location of the pieces and their projected
costs. He stated the development plan would put a value on the components and
develop a sequence for the project. He stated that he is aware the city
currently has money set aside for the construction of an amphitheater and that
part of his proposal would be to provide information as to what type of
amphitheater could be constructed with the available monies, as well as the
addition of associated access roads. Mr. Hayes stated the plan would also
prioritize key features of the development of the park. Mr. Hayes stated the
proposed fee for this service would be $8,000 and advised that his firm could
have a preliminary development plan ready for initial review around the end of
December.
9.   Mayor Kriege stated that with the available funds set aside for the
amphitheater, a development plan would provide for a way to phase in this
aspect of the park.
10.   Council member Kudera made a motion to approve the fee of $8,000 to
contract with the architect firm of Robert Ehmet Hayes & Associates to design a
development plan for Memorial Park. Council Member Moriconi seconded the
motion. Mr. Dupps asked how the Master Plan developed by Matrix Architects
would tie into this plan proposed by Mr. Hayes. Mayor Kriege advised that the
Master Plan outlined a design for the park but did not provide cost projections
or phasing in the various features. He stated that the service proposed by
Hayes & Associates would bring the two together and identify cost amounts for
the key features. Mayor Kriege commented that the Matrix plan had good points
and the design would not be discarded, nor would Mr. Hayes’ proposal be a
reproduction. Mr. Hayes commented that his proposal would provide the city with
more detail on how to accomplish the design in the master plan by Matrix. Mr.
Ellison asked where the funds would be pulled from the budget to finance this
development plan. Mr. Wendling stated the expense could come from the Memorial
Park account. Roll call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 5-0 in
favor.
Discussion Regarding The Early Pay-Off of the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt
11.   Mayor Kriege announced that if no one had any objections that he would
like to move the discussion regarding the Fowler Creek Debt Repayment up on the
agenda. No one voiced objection to this request. Mayor Kriege introduced Janet
Rebman, Finance Director who presented detailed information regarding this
debt.
12.   Ms. Rebman stated that in response to the discussion at the last council
meeting she has prepared payoff schedules for council’s review. She stated that
on the Schedule I, Description of the Bonds, there is a penalty for early
payment anytime before December 1, 2010. Schedule II, indicates the annual due
date of the principal and interest. She stated the city still owes $5,000,000
at this time. Ms. Rebman stated that Schedule III, Fowler Creek Debt Repayment,
shows a projected fund balance for the two funds (General Sewer and Fowler
Creek Sewer) and indicates a $1,200,000 combined balance. She stated that
projecting the fund balance over a nine-year period would yield an estimated
$4,620,891 in the year 2011; enough to repay the entire balance of this debt at
that time. She commented that 4% is a very small interest growth.
13.   Mr. Gabbard commented that he hopes that Ms. Rebman was conservative in
her estimations and that here calculations are accurate. Mayor Kriege commented
that this fund should be tagged with the bank so that the city does not forget
that the intent is to completely pay off this debt in 2010. Ms. Rebman stated
she has spoken with the bank representative regarding this and they are
agreeable. Mr. Wendling commented that the accumulated fund balance would also
be available for emergency sewer repairs. Ms. Rebman stated that the city would
save $1,500,000 in interest by paying this debt in full by 2010. Mr. Kudera
stated that he agrees with Ms. Rebman’s calculations and feels this repayment
schedule is a good process for the city. Mayor Kriege stated that this bond
being issued in 1998 with the intent of taking 25 years to pay off would now be
repaid in thirteen years. Mr. Kudera commented that this projection will now
give the residents some hope that this debt will be retired much sooner than
the anticipated 25 years.
Discussion Regarding Scherry Avenue
14.   Mr. Glenn Ellison addressed council with a request for a letter of
acceptance on the paving and extension of Scherry Avenue. He distributed maps
of the street for council to review. Mr. Wendling provided some background
information regarding Scherry Avenue and stated that when this street was
platted in the 1980’s it was not built according to subdivision codes and the
road veers onto the right of way and private property. He stated that Mr.
Ellison has purchased a few lots with plans to construct single-family houses.
He advised that this matter has been discussed at the Planning & Zoning
Committee and he has met with Mr. Glenn Ellison, as well as the City Engineer,
several times regarding Mr. Ellison’s plans to construct the houses on this
street and his extension of the street to access the new houses. He stated that
Mr. Ellison installed the new section of Scherry Avenue before receiving
approval from the Planning Commission and that the new section does not meet
subdivision code. Mayor Kriege advised council that the Planning Commission
would not approve this street until the city advises them that it will be
accepted for city maintenance. Mr. Glenn Ellison stated that he could have
constructed only half of the road but decided to go down further. City
Engineer, Dave Whitacre, commented that although the newly paved section does
not meet subdivision code, it does meet the required thickness and strength and
is better than what was there.
15.   Council Member Ellison commented that it has been built to the same
standards and that Mr. Ellison agreed to remove the old pavement if the city
pays half the costs. Mr. Moriconi asked if the city should accept the newly
paved section of road. Council Member Ellison stated that he thinks the city
should accept the road for maintenance, as there is not much traffic in this
area with only a few homes. He stated the city should send a letter to the
Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission informing them the city would accept
this street for maintenance. He added that the problem for the city is to
decide whether to split the cost with the residents for removal of the old
section of the street. Mr. Dupps voiced concern that access for emergency
vehicles would be difficult and was concerned that this could be a safety
issue. Mayor Kriege stated that access for police vehicles should not be a
problem. Mr. Kudera stated that this street is no different from the various
other narrow streets throughout the city. Mr. Moriconi commented that this
street has a turn around area, which many streets do not have. Mr. Dupps
suggested ‘no parking’ signs be installed. Mayor Kriege stated this would be
addressed. Mr. Whitacre commented that because the street is only sixteen feet
wide, parking on either side should be prohibited.
16.   Council Member Ellison made a motion to accept Scherry Avenue as
constructed and that the city should inform the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission of this acceptance. Mr. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0 in favor.
17.   Mayor Kriege addressed the other issue regarding Scherry Avenue, that
being the removal of the old section of the road and who should absorb this
cost. Two residents of Scherry Avenue were present to speak to this. Mr.
Richard Miller, 645 Marilyn requested that the old section of the street be
removed from his land, but wanted to be assured that the area would be covered
with seed and straw. Mr. Wendling stated that Riegler Paving has quoted a price
of $4,000 to remove the old section of roadway and Mr. Glenn Ellison has agreed
to split this cost with the city. Mr. Alvin Gibson, 764 Scherry Avenue, stated
he would like to see the section removed but then his access will be
terminated. Council Member Ellison stated that he was agreeable to splitting
the cost with Mr. Ellison. Mr. Moriconi asked if Mr. Gibson would be provided
with a new driveway. Mr. Whitacre advised that the paving of a new drive would
be at the expense of the residents, as the quote given by Riegler Paving was
for paving, a new culvert and hauling in dirt. The quote did not include
seeding and straw. Mr. Moriconi asked who has been maintaining the old Scherry
Avenue. Mr. Wendling stated that the street was a prescribed easement and has
been maintained by either the city and/or county for the last forty years. Mr.
Kudera asked how the maintenance situation of Justice Lane differed from this
street. Council Member Ellison stated that Justice Lane is not a dedicated
right of way and Scherry Avenue is a platted city street. Mr. Whitacre
concurred and added that Scherry Avenue is a platted right of way.
18.   Council Member Ellison asked how the cost would be split: Riegler Paving
and the City or Glenn Ellison and Riegler Paving. Mr. Kudera stated that he
felt the property owners should share a portion of this expense, as it will
improve their property. One of the residents stated that this was a mistake
made by the city when the road was placed on his property. Mr. Kudera
maintained that the city was making a generous offer and many residents would
like the city to pay for this kind of improvement.
19.   Council Member Ellison made a motion to share the cost (50/50) of
correcting the alignment of Scherry Avenue with Mr. Glenn Ellison, with the
residents absorbing the cost for seed and straw as this is not a part of the
quote by Riegler Paving. Mr. Gabbard seconded the motion. Roll call was
answered with three ayes and two nays cast by Mr. Kudera and Mr. Dupps. Motion
carried 3-2 in favor.
Discussion Regarding Ordinance No. 2-12-78 Annexation of Madison Pike Area As
it Relates to the Property Owned by Karen & Greg Lipscomb and John Schoborg
20.   Ms. Karen Schoborg Lipscomb addressed council regarding property tax
bills that she has been receiving each year for property she owns on Madison
Pike. She stated that this property is not in the city limits and that she is
receiving these bills in error since 1997. She stated that she has spoken with
the City Clerk, as well as Council Members Gabbard and Ellison. She stated she
has also discussed this with the Area Planning Commission who has told her the
annexation lines were drawn in error. She stated that the council members
assured her that the property is not in the city limits. She stated she wants
to be a good citizen and pay her taxes but would like this matter resolved.
21.   Mr. Kudera asked what the city could do. Mr. Smith, City Attorney, stated
that this is the first formal presentation regarding the matter before city
council. He stated he is not sure what has come about from Ms. Lipscomb’s
discussions with Area Planning. Council Member Ellison stated that several of
the Area Planning staff members are familiar with this matter and have
concurred that the lines were drawn in error and they want official word from
the city to correct this map. He stated that he feels the correction should be
made and allow the Lipscomb’s to pay the correct amount of taxes due the city.
Ms. Lipscomb stated she has been informed that the city has to make the
correction. Mr. Smith stated he has conducted some research into this matter
and has learned that an annexation ordinance cannot be corrected by a municipal
order. Ms. Lipscomb insisted that her property has not been annexed. Mr.
Ellison also agreed that it is not an annexation problem, but a simple matter
of correcting the line drawn on the map. Mr. Ellison and Ms. Lipscomb recalled
when Norb Schoborg spoke to the city prior to 1997 regarding this mapping
error.
22.   Mr. Gabbard stated he has spoken to Mike Schwartz of the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission regarding this property, which is 150 feet
east of Madison Pike (Route 17). Mr. Ellison stated the city should get the
line corrected and refund any monies owed to the property owners. City
Engineer, Dave Whitacre advised that prior to 1978 the front section of this
property already existed within the city limits.
23.   Mayor Kriege directed Mr. Whitacre, Mr. Ellison and Mr. Smith to work on
resolving this matter and bring a recommendation to council next month.
Executive Session
24.   Mayor Kriege requested a motion to enter into executive session. Upon
motion by Mr. Gabbard and second by Mr. Dupps the council went into executive
session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) and 61.810 (f) for the purpose of
discussing pending litigation and an employee contract, respectively. Motion
carried unanimously.
25.   Upon motion by Mr. Kudera and second by Mr. Ellison the council resumed
the open session of the council meeting. Motion carried unanimously.
Discussion Regarding the Hiring of a School Resource Police Officer
26.   A motion was made by Mr. Moriconi and seconded by Mr. Kudera to authorize
the Mayor to enter into a contract for the hiring of a school resource officer
for the Police Department. Mr. Ellison asked if this officer would be provided
a take home cruiser, as contract employees are not normally provided a vehicle.
Chief Shawn Butler stated that the department would provide this contract
employee an older cruiser (1995) that was retained for this purpose. He stated
that he feels it is a good thing to have a cruiser parked in the front of the
school building. Roll call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 5-
0 in favor.
Discussion of the Property Located at the corner of Cox Road and Taylor Mill
Road – Zone Change Request by Scheben Development – 1st Reading of the Zone
Change Ordinance
27.   Mr. Moriconi made a motion to have a first reading of a proposed
ordinance that would grant a zone change for the property located at the corner
of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road with the three conditions recommended by the
Kenton County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission as well as a city
imposed requirement that sewer lines be made accessible to the residents on
Jimae. Mr. Kudera seconded the motion. Mr. Jeff Smith read the proposed
ordinance. Mayor Kriege stated this ordinance would be presented at the next
meeting for a second reading and vote and asked that the motions be withdrawn.
Mr. Moriconi and Mr. Kudera moved and seconded to withdrawn the motion on the
floor.
Adjournment
28.   Upon motion by Mr. Ellison and second by Mr. Gabbard the meeting was
adjourned. Motion carried unanimously and the meeting ended at 9:00 p.m.
_______________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor
______________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
DECEMBER 2, 2002
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   Mayor Thomas M. Kriege called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence Christian
Church gave the invocation. Council Members Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim
Ellison, Ike Gabbard, Jim Kudera and Chris Moriconi answered roll call. Also
present was City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker and City Administrator, Mark T.
Wendling.
Approval of the Minutes of the October 7, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Council Member Dupps moved, with a second by Council Member Bushong to
approve the minutes of the October 7, 2002 council meeting. Council Member
Kudera suggested that Mr. Gabbard’s statement on page two, paragraph seven
regarding the audit be deleted as he feels the question posed to the auditor by
Mr. Gabbard was for political reasons and was not part of the financial audit
of city records. Mr. Gabbard countered that he was asking for the auditor’s
opinion as to whether she felt a tax increase would be necessary. Mayor Kriege
advised that the minutes of a meeting is a synopsis of the dialogue that took
place. Mr. Kudera voiced his disapproval of the question that was asked of the
auditor and maintained that it should be stricken from the minutes. Mayor
Kriege advised that it could be stricken if council so chooses. Council took no
action to amend paragraph seven as recommended by Mr. Kudera.
3.   Mr. Ellison asked that paragraph thirty on page five reflect that the
zoning violation he reported in the Beechgrove Shopping Center was a trailer
‘type sign’, not a trailer. The change was noted. Mr. Ellison advised that the
situation still exists, as the sign has not been removed. Mr. Bushong stated
that the owner has a sign permit issued by the city’s Building Inspector. Mayor
Kriege advised that this matter would be reviewed.
4.   No roll call was taken; the motion to approve the minutes as amended
carried with all ayes.
Approval of the Minutes of the November 11, 2002 Special Council Meeting
5.   Council Member Kudera moved to approve the minutes of the November 11,
2002 special meeting, seconded by Council Member Moriconi. There were no
suggested amendments. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Privileges of the Floor
6.   Mr. Doug Eppenson, 5277 Cody Road, addressed council regarding the burning
of brush on Cody Road in the area of the Troopers Crossing Subdivision. He
complained that it is foul smelling. Mayor Kriege stated the city would contact
those responsible for the burning to get this matter resolved.
Update Regarding the Lipscomb/Schoborg Annexation Dispute
7.   City Attorney, H. Lawson Walker reported to council on his findings
regarding the 1978 ordinance that annexed properties along Madison Pike. He
advised that he believes the property in question has been legally annexed even
though some residents have contended over the last several years that their
property was never annexed. He stated the Planning Commission has drawn the
maps in accordance with the description in this ordinance and has published the
maps for more than twenty years. Mr. Walker addressed the suggestion by those
who think the problem can be resolved by simply switching one parcel for
another by advising that it would leave the city with no contiguous nature.
Mayor Kriege suggested annexing the right of way to keep the city contiguous.
Mr. Walker advised council to have the city engineer assess the situation and
bring a recommendation (s) on how to keep the city contiguous. Mr. Ellison
stated the ordinance was intended to annex 150 feet east of Madison Pike. Mr.
Walker stated that the description in the ordinance is the basis of the maps
drawn by the Planning Commission. He stated that if the property owners want
out of the city and the council agrees to that, a de-annexation process could
take place, but the city engineer would have to research ways to keep the city
contiguous prior to approving and beginning a de-annexation process.
8.   Mayor Kriege requested a vote from council on how to proceed with this
matter. Mr. Kudera stated that he felt this was not a course of action for
council and that it is up to the property owners to decide whether or not they
want to pursue this matter legally. Mr. Bushong asked how many residents were
affected. Mr. Wendling stated two. Mr. Gabbard suggested the council direct the
city engineer to research this and bring a recommendation to the new council
members that take office in January. Mr. Moriconi asked if a de-annexation
matter would have to be placed on the general election ballot. Mr. Walker
stated that it would not. Mr. Gabbard asked how far up Madison Pike was
involved. Mr. Walker stated that three lots were affected.
9.   Mr. Gabbard made a motion to authorize the city engineer to research ways
to de-annex the properties involved for the incoming council to take action on.
Mr. Ellison seconded the motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Dupps stated
that he did not feel this was necessary at this time, as he feels someone other
than the city should take the next step. Mr. Kudera concurred with Mr. Dupps.
Mr. Bushong stated that he felt that too much effort and valuable time would be
expended for two property owners. Mr. Moriconi asked when the residents first
approached the city. Mayor Kriege stated the residents have been disputing this
annexation for several years, but just last month brought the issue to the
council floor. Mr. Ellison stated the residents have been dealing with the city
office.
10.   Roll call on Mr. Gabbard’s motion and Mr. Ellison’s second was answered
with two yes votes and four no votes cast by Mr. Kudera, Mr. Moriconi, Mr.
Bushong and Mr. Dupps. Motion failed.
11.   Mayor Kriege stated that the city would notify the Lipscomb’s regarding
council’s decision to take no action regarding their dispute over this
annexation of their property in 1978.
Revised Interlocal Agreement for Improvements to Industrial Road
12.   Mayor Kriege presented to council for their approval a revised interlocal
agreement between the Counties of Boone and Kenton and the Cities of Elsmere,
Florence and Independence for the improvements to Industrial Road. He advised
that the date of the last installment payment for this project has been
changed.
13.   Mr. Wendling stated that in the previously approved agreement the final
payment is payable January 1, 2005. He stated that the final payment date has
been changed to July 31, 2004 at the request of the Boone County Fiscal Court
due to concerns that if construction begins next year and the final payment is
not received until January 2005, the county will not have sufficient local
funds to match the federal dollars on a timely basis. He advised council that
the final payment will still be taken from the same fiscal year as the original
agreement. Mr. Gabbard asked why this wasn’t a consideration before now. Mr.
Wendling stated that he did not know.
14.   Council Member Kudera moved and Council Member Moriconi made the second
to approve the revised Interlocal Agreement for the Improvements to Industrial
Road. Mr. Dupps expressed concern that the City of Florence was paying the
lowest percentage for this project than the other governmental bodies. Mr.
Wendling advised that the financial allocations were based on taxable income
from the Industrial Park and that the City of Florence had the lowest taxable
income. He stated that the majority of the Industrial Park businesses are
located in Boone and Kenton counties. Roll call was taken and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zone Change for Property located at Cox and
Taylor Mill Rds.
15.   Mayor Kriege acknowledge the residents in the audience who wished to
speak to council regarding the matter of the zone change requested by the
Scheben Group for property located at the corner of Cox Road and Taylor Mill
Road.
16.   Mr. William Ruzinok, 6394 Jimae Court, shared with council his
disapproval of the Scheben Group’s plan to construct a three-story, 96-unit
condominium at this location. He provided council with a detailed history of
past development proposals for this property and the type of plans the
residents in the area feel would not be appropriate. He stated he doesn’t want
a development that would lower the resident’s property values or standard of
living. Mr. Ruzinok stated that Cherokee Bowl and the Regal Ridge Apartment
complex were bad developments for the area. He questioned the benefit this type
of development would provide the city and the residents, and the necessity of a
96 unit building on this corner, surrounded by residential, single family
homes. He stated he sees no advantages and fears this proposed development will
not have an adequate buffer zone and will ruin the neighborhood.
17.   Mr. Eric Thomas, 6406 Jimae Ct., advised that of the nine homes on Jimae,
that three have recently installed new septic systems, leaving only six
residents that might take advantage of tapping into the nearby sewer line that
this development would provide. He urged council to keep this property zone
single family residential.
18.   Mayor Kriege asked Mr. Jerry Dusing, legal counsel for the Scheben Group,
if he wished to address the residents’ concerns. Mr. Dusing stated it would be
inappropriate for him to debate this matter with the residents considering this
matter is being contested to settle a lawsuit. He did say that one of the main
attractions to this development was that the trees on the property would be
preserved and the plan would be very upscale. Mr. Gabbard commented that Mr.
Jim Berling had indicated that another entrance to the development could be
installed on Route 16. Mr. Berling advised that he would be agreeable to that
condition subject to approval from the State Highway Department with the
procurement of an encroachment permit. Mr. Moriconi asked Mr. Dusing if other
development options, other than the proposed condominiums, are being
considered. Mr. Dusing advised that Scheben had looked at possibly constructing
single-family detached dwellings but decided it was not an option. He added
that the city had suggested a commercial development, but advised that would
require his client to begin a whole new application process with the Kenton
County & Municipal Planning & Zoning Commission, with the possibility that such
a plan would be denied by the Commission. Mr. Moriconi asked if they had
considered patio homes. Mr. Berling replied no.
19.   Ms. Gail Wallace, 6396 Jimae Court, stated that she has lived at this
residence for twenty years and that her property abuts this proposed
development. She stated that previously when development plans were proposed
for the Cox Road/Taylor Mill Road location the adjoining residents were
notified. She expressed concern that this time the residents were not notified
and that she read about it in the newspaper. She stated that she disliked the
idea of looking out her rear window at a monstrous three-story building and
expressed concerns regarding storm water drainage. Ms. Wallace stated that she
was not totally against progress but urged council to consider the property
owners when deciding this matter.
20.   Mayor Kriege directed Mr. Walker to read the proposed ordinance as
presented at the first reading in November, granting the zone change for the
property located at the corner of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road. Mr. Dusing,
attorney for the Scheben Group, advised Mayor Kriege and council that the other
condition by council to add another access road could be agreed to tonight.
Council Member Dupps requested an executive session to discuss this matter.
Executive Session
21.   At 7:50 p.m., Mr. Dupps moved and Mr. Gabbard made the second to move
into executive session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) for the purpose of
discussing pending litigation. Motion carried unanimously.
22.   At 8:15 p.m., Mr. Bushong moved and Mr. Dupps made the second to return
to the regular session of the meeting. Mayor Kriege stated that pending
litigation was discussed in the executive session and that no action was taken.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zone Change for Property located at Cox and
Taylor Mill Rds.
23.   Mayor Kriege directed Mr. Walker to read the proposed ordinance that
would approve the zone change requested by the Scheben Group for property
located at the corner of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road. Mr. Walker read the
proposed ordinance in its entirety.
24.   Mr. Kudera made a motion to approve the ordinance; seconded by Mr.
Moriconi. Council Member Bushong expressed confusion that the ordinance had
been amended since the first reading to add a fourth condition under Section
II. Mr. Walker responded that his associate, Jeffrey S. Smith, who attended the
meeting wherein a first reading of this ordinance was read, had drafted the
first reading of this ordinance by hand; therefore it was read in summary. He
went on to say that no substantial change has been made from the first to the
second reading, as the fourth condition providing sewer lines to the residents
on Jimae Ct. was a part of the ordinance at the first reading. Mayor Kriege
concurred that the first reading of the ordinance contained all four conditions
in Section II.
25.   At this time, roll call was taken and answered with two yes votes cast by
Mr. Kudera and Mr. Moriconi and four no votes cast by Mr. Bushong, Mr. Dupps,
Mr. Ellison and Mr. Gabbard. The motion was defeated by a vote of 4-2.
Shaw Road Repairs
26.   Council Member Moriconi asked if the Water District has addressed the
needed repairs on Shaw Road. Mr. Wendling stated the Water District has
encountered some issues with the contractor that installed the lines on Shaw
Road this summer. He advised Mr. Moriconi that he would follow up with the
Water District to see when the repairs can be made to Shaw Road.
Contract with Glenhurst Development for a New City Park on Glenhurst Drive
27.   Mayor Kriege presented to council for their approval a proposed Agreement
between Glenhurst Development LLC and the city regarding the transfer of
ownership of the parklands property in the Glenhurst Subdivision to the city.
He stated the agreement details the arrangement between Glenhurst Development
and the city regarding the land use and development of the park. Mr. Dupps
asked if this subdivision would have a Homeowners Association. Mr. Wendling
replied no. Mr. Dupps asked if the city’s insurance company had been contacted
to discuss possible liabilities with regard to the lake on this property. Mr.
Wendling stated he had spoke to the city’s insurance agent who assured him the
city would be covered under the Errors & Omissions Policy.
28.   Mr. Wendling advised council a motion would be needed to accept the
property. Council Member Moriconi made a motion to accept ownership of the
Glenhurst park property; seconded by Mr. Kudera. Mr. Dupps asked the acreage of
this property. Mr. Moriconi stated the property was sixteen acres. A
representative of Glenhurst Development stated that Glenhurst Drive runs
through the parcel. Mr. Ellison noticed an easement on the property for East
Kentucky Power and expressed some concern for a power line in a city park. Mr.
Bob Schroder, representative of Glenhurst Development, advised that it was not
a high-tension line. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
29.   Mayor Kriege requested authorization to enter into the agreement with
Glenhurst regarding the development of the park. Council Member Kudera moved
with a second by Mr. Ellison to authorize Mayor Kriege to enter into the
agreement regarding the development of the Glenhurst Park. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Lease Purchase Contract with Fifth Third Bank for Purchase of City
Administrator’s Vehicle
30.   Mayor Kriege presented for council’s approval a lease purchase agreement
with Fifth Third Bank for the financing of a replacement vehicle for the City
Administrator.
31.   Council Member Moriconi moved, with second by Council Member Kudera to
approve a 36-month lease purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank for a 2003
Ford Taurus. Council Member Gabbard commented that there are not sufficient
funds in the car lease line item in the budget to approve this purchase. He
suggested purchasing a Kia for a significantly lower amount of money. Mayor
Kriege stated there are sufficient funds in the departmental budget. Mr.
Gabbard argued that even though the Kia is not on the state contract price
list, that the city could save $7,000 choosing a Kia over a Ford Taurus that is
on the state contract-pricing list. Mayor Kriege countered that $16,000 for a
vehicle is not an outrageous price and that the city is just replacing the
leased vehicle with a matching car. Mr. Gabbard responded that this vehicle has
already been delivered and in use by the City Administrator, without council’s
approval. Mayor Kriege contended that he had approval to take delivery of this
vehicle when this council passed the current budget and that this line item is
not depleted. He maintained that the new 2003 Ford Taurus is a replacement for
the expired lease, with no option to purchase, of the 1999 Ford Taurus.
32.   Roll call was taken and answered with five yes votes and one no vote cast
by Mr. Gabbard. Motion carried 5-1 in favor.
33.   Mr. Ellison noted the Bank Qualification section on page two of the
contract that states “the lessee will be required to certify that they do not
reasonably expect to issue more than $10,000,000 in tax-exempt debt during the
current calendar year as defined by the Internal Revenue Code.” He expressed
concern that the city may not qualify with the current debt owed on the Fowler
Creek Sewer Project and the Municipal Center. Mayor Kriege assured Mr. Ellison
that he would follow up on that requirement.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
34.   Mr. Wendling announced that the Sixth Annual Christmas Walk & Tour would
be held on Friday, December 6, 2002 from 6-9 P.M. The Walk & Tour would cover
the area on Madison Pike between the Independence Christian Church and St.
Cecilia Church. He stated that there would be a variety of entertainment,
refreshments and carriage rides available. Council Member Moriconi acknowledged
the Special Events Committee and the Citizens Police Academy for all their hard
work on the city events. Allison Kriege added that there would also be various
crafters and food vendors at three locations: St. Cecilia Church, Independence
Christian Church and the Park & Ride lot.
Mayor’s Report – Thomas M. Kriege
35.   Mayor Kriege explained that since the committees did not meet last month
there would be no committee reports. Council Member Dupps announced that the
first school resource officer hired with the grant funds awarded to the city
would begin employment with the city after the first of the year.
36.   Council Member Moriconi acknowledged Mayor Kriege by stating that it has
been a pleasure to work with him and wished him the best as he steps down from
the position of Mayor. Applause followed.
37.   Mayor Kriege announced that the Appreciation Dinner and Swearing In of
the Newly Elected Officials would be held on Thursday, December 12, 2002 at 6:
30 p.m. at the St. Cecilia Church undercroft. He wished the new mayor and
council well.
Adjournment
38.   Council Member Bushong moved, with second by Council Member Moriconi to
adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:44 p.m.
________________________________________
Thomas M. Kriege, Mayor (Presided at this meeting)
                  __________________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, (Current) Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2003 Minutes
JANUARY 6, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
January 6, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Father Paul Berscheid of St. Cecilia
Catholic Church gave the invocation. The roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison,
Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Administrator, Mark T. Wendling. Mayor Moriconi introduced and welcomed each
new Council Member.
Municipal Order 2003-MO-01 - Appointment of New Legal Counsel – Jed K. Deters
2.   Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration and approval a
Municipal Order authorizing the appointment of Jed K. Deters of the Deters,
Benzinger & LaVelle law firm to the position of City Attorney. He stated the
Municipal Order would also authorize him to enter into a Professional Services
Agreement for Mr. Deters’ services, which would be for a term of one year and
would provide for a thirty day written termination notice by either party.
Mayor Moriconi requested Mr. Wendling to read Municipal Order No. 2003-MO-01.
Council Member Bushong moved, with second from Council Member Yeager that
Municipal Order No. 2003-MO-01 be approved as read. Council Member Ellison
questioned whether this appointment should be made with an Executive Order. Mr.
Deters advised that approval by council would call for a municipal order. Roll
call was taken and answered unanimously by council.
Recess
3.   Mayor Moriconi requested a motion to take a short break so that Mr. Deters
could take the city attorney chair and quickly review the agenda. Council
Member Bushong so moved, with second by Council Member Ellison. Motion carried
unanimously.
4.   Mayor Moriconi requested a motion to reconvene the regular meeting.
Council Member Ellison so moved, with second by Council Member Yeager. Motion
carried unanimously.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 2, 2002 Regular Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the December
2, 2002 regular meeting of Council. Council Member Ellison so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen to approve. No amendments were noted and roll
call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
6.   Mayor Moriconi announced that no one signed up to address council.
Old Business
7.   Mayor Moriconi advised that discussion of Old Business items would be
deferred to the Special Council Meeting planned for next Monday (January 13,
2003) at 7:00 p.m. to be held at the Senior Center, if it is available.
Declare List of City Owned Property as Surplus Items to be Auctioned
8.   Mayor Moriconi presented a list of surplus items, most of which have been
acquired by the city with the purchase of the Taylor Smith property (5409
Madison Pike). The list includes house fixtures such as cabinets, ceiling fans,
windows, doors, vinyl siding and shutters, sinks, shelving, electrical and
plumbing fixtures, as well as items that were left behind, such as baseball
cards, household appliances, sports equipment and games, when the previous
owner vacated the building. Council Member Ketron moved to declare the list of
items as surplus property, seconded by Mr. Ellison. No roll call taken; motion
carried unanimously.
9.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for review and approval a contract
with Auctioneer, Jim Kannady for his services to auction the aforementioned
surplus items. Upon motion by Council Member Ellison and
10.   second by Council Member Yeager roll call was taken and answered
unanimously to approve the contract with Auctioneer Jim Kannady.
Proposed Ordinance – Setting the Time and Date of the Council Meetings – 1st
Reading
11.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their consideration an ordinance
that would add a monthly caucus meeting. He stated that having a monthly caucus
meeting would eliminate the need for committee meetings. He stated that no
action would be taken at caucus meetings and that the meetings would be purely
for discussion purposes only and that action on issues would be reserved for
the business meeting on the first Monday each month. He stated that he feels
the caucus meetings, which will be held at the Senior Center, will enhance
communication in a more informal manner. Mayor Moriconi advised that the
proposed ordinance indicated that the caucus meeting would be held on the third
Thursday each month, but would like to change that to the third Monday instead.
City Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi stated
the second reading would be placed on the agenda for the special council
meeting next Monday.
Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
12.   Mr. Wendling advised the Police Department has received a grant for the
purchase of a VideoDetective Interceptor. He asked Police Chief Shawn Butler to
speak to council on the benefits of this equipment. Chief Butler advised that
the VideoDetective is a $50,000 piece of equipment that has been purchased with
a federal grant. He explained that it is a portable video enhancement system
that will assist in the crime solving of robberies. He stated this equipment is
designed to provide clearer images on surveillance videos. Chief Butler stated
that Detective Amy Chapman has been trained on the equipment and advised that
an arrest warrant has been issued today for the recent robbery at the Ameristop
in the Beechgrove Plaza. Mayor Moriconi asked what procedure the department
used prior to acquiring this equipment. Chief Butler stated the Airport has a
similar piece of equipment they could use, but they had to make an appointment
and the resulting picture would not be clear enough. He stated the process
could take several months and by that time the suspect may be long gone. Mr.
Wendling asked if this equipment would be available for use by other
communities. Chief Butler stated the department would share this resource with
other law enforcement agencies.
Resolution No. 2003-R-01 – Approving the Payment of Monthly Expenses for the
CDBG Grant (Senior Center)
13.   Mr. Wendling advised council that Resolution No. 2003-R-01 is being
presented for approval of the final payment of the Community Development Block
Grant funds from the State for the Senior Center project. He stated this final
payment is to the Grant Administrator, Bryan Kirby of Community & Economic
Development Associates, Inc. in the amount of $3,500.00.
14.   The City Attorney read Resolution No. 2003-R-01. Council Member Bushong
moved, with second by Council Member Yeager to approve Resolution No. 2003-R-
01. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
15.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their approval three executive
orders appointing individuals to various Boards.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-05 – Appointing Margaret Anne (Annie) Wuestefeld as
Citation Officer
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2003-EO-05 repealing the designation of
Mark Wendling, Rich McAllister, Jeff Smith, Kevin Barbian and Diane Collins as
appointed citation officers pursuant to KRS 83A.130(7) and appointing Annie
Wuestefeld as the sole Citation Officer for Independence. Council Member
Franzen moved, with a second by Council Member Ellison to approve this
appointment. Council Member Bushong asked why only one person would be the
designated citation officer. Mr. Wendling explained that in consulting with Mr.
Deters it was discovered that because the above mentioned people have not
received training necessary of citation officers that any citation given by
those would not be upheld in a court of law. Mr. Deters stated that the
appointment of a citation officer should be based on their qualifications. Roll
call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-06 – Re-Appointing Tom Jump to the Board of
Adjustments
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2003-EO-06 re-appointing Tom Jump to
the Board of Adjustments for a four-year term that would expire on March 14,
2007. Council Member Ellison moved, with second by Council Member Bushong to
approve this appointment. Council Member Ellison expressed gratitude for the
many years of service Mr. Jump has devoted to the city as a member of this
Board. Mr. Deters commented that Mr. Jump does an excellent job on the Board.
Roll was called; motion carried unanimously.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-07 – Re-Appointing Scott Holten to the Board of
Adjustments
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2003-EO-07 re-appointing Scott Holten
to a four-year term on the Board of Adjustments that would expire on March 14,
2007. Council Member Ellison moved, with second by Council Member Yeager to
approve this appointment. Council Member Ellison also expressed gratitude to
Mr. Holten for his years of dedicated service to this Board. Roll call was
answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Miscellaneous Comments
16.   Council Member Franzen asked if there was any development on the
possibility of changing the title of the Recreation Director as discussed at
the last caucus meeting. Mr. Deters stated that matter is being reviewed.
Adjournment
17.   There being no further business, Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to
adjourn. Council Member Ellison so moved, with second by Council Member Ketron.
Motion carried unanimously and the meeting adjourned at 8:52 p.m.
_____________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
______________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JANUARY 13, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special
Session on Monday, January 13, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Independence Senior
Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Chris Moriconi presiding in the Chair.
Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. The
roll was called and the following council members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager.
Also present was Jed K. Deters, City Attorney and Mark T. Wendling, City
Administrator.
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   Discussion of the Lipscomb Annexation Issue
∙   Discussion & possible Action Relating to the Re-Financing of the Loans for
the Senior Center and the Municipal Center
∙   Discussion & possible action regarding the new Municipal Center
∙   Discussion regarding an interlocal agreement with the Sanitation District
No. 1 for storm water regulations
∙   Discussion & possible action regarding City Engineer services contract
Municipal Order 2003-MO-02
∙   Discussion & possible action regarding caucus meetings – Ordinance No.
2003-O-01
∙   Executive Order 2003-EO-04 – Appointments to the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Council
∙   Executive Session (only if necessary)
Lipscomb Annexation Issue
3.   Mayor Moriconi reported that he is directing the city attorney to review
the annexation ordinance that was adopted in 1978 that affects properties owned
by John Schoborg and Karen Lipscomb as they are disputing this annexation. He
stated that at some point council would be presented with a report and asked to
vote on how the city should proceed with this matter. Mr. Wendling explained
that the property was annexed in 1978 and the question of whether or not it was
a proper annexation has resurfaced throughout the last couple of decades. He
stated that in recent months the city staff along with the previous city
attorney and city engineer have met with the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
staff members in an effort to get to the bottom of this annexation dispute. Mr.
Wendling advised that the previous council took some action in December of
2002.
4.   City Attorney, Jed Deters advised that he would review the documents
pertaining to this annexation ordinance and would present a recommendation by
the February caucus meeting. Council Member Ellison suggested that Mr. Deters
obtain 1976 and 1996 plotted maps from Area Planning, so that he can compare
the boundary lines. Mr. Wendling advised that the description in the annexation
seems to be a matter of interpretation. Council Member Ellison suggested that
Mr. Marshall Slagle at Area Planning could shed some light on this matter. Mr.
John Schoborg commented that he and his sister have inherited this land from
their father. Council Member Franzen asked if they want this land taken out of
the city boundaries. Mr. Wendling stated that part of their land was in the
city prior to the annexation and that the annexation affected the rear portion
of the parcel.
Discussion Regarding Re-Financing of the Loans for the Senior Center and the
Municipal Center
5.   Mayor Moriconi informed council that he would like to explore the
possibility of re-financing the loans the city currently holds on the Senior
Center and the Municipal Center in an effort to lower the annual mortgage
payments by $100,000. He stated that this would mean extending the life of the
loans, which would add more interest, but that a fixed rate would be available
for a thirty-year loan. He stated that a fixed rate would provide peace of
mind, as well as reduce the annual budgeted funds needed for these line items.
6.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a Financial Advisory Agreement between
the city and Seasongood & Mayer, a firm specializing in Public Finance, for
consideration. Mr. Robert Cooper, a Senior Principal with the firm, was present
to answer questions. Mr. Deters asked questions regarding the fees for services
section of the proposed contract. Mr. Cooper advised that minimum fees are
associated with a tiered fee schedule. Mr. Deters also noted that the annual
fee is not printed in the contract. Mr. Cooper advised there is no annual
advisory fee and that the line could be removed. Mayor Moriconi advised that
there would no be a prepayment fee after the first ten years. Council Member
Ellison asked if the Senior Center loan had a prepayment penalty. Mr. Cooper
stated that his preliminary research of the current loan with the Kentucky
League of Cities on the Senior Center shows no prepayment penalty would apply.
7.   Mr. Cooper stated that multiple scenarios on the concept of refinancing
have been considered, including a thirty-year loan on the Senior Center, which
he feels is not in the best interest of the city. He advised that interest
rates are at a forty-year low and stated that an in-depth analysis with some
modifications would result in the best deal for the city. Council Member
Franzen asked for clarification regarding one or two loans. Mr. Cooper stated
that it was unsure at this time if the loans would be kept separate or if it
would be more cost-effective to combine the loans, and that further review
would be necessary to make that determination. Mr. Wendling advised that even
if the loans were combined, the Senior Center would still be paid off in ten
years. Mr. Cooper advised that there are various factors to look at regarding
advantages and minimum costs for the city. Council Member Yeager asked if there
were one loan - would there be two payments. Mr. Cooper replied if there was
one, loan there would only be one payment. Council Member Ketron asked if the
Senior Center was paid off in ten years would the remaining loan on the
Municipal Center decrease. Mr. Cooper replied that it would.
Re-Financing the Loans
8.   Council Member Behler asked if they were being asked to vote on whether to
settle on a fixed or variable interest rate. Mr. Cooper agreed on a concept of
re-financing. Mayor Moriconi requested a motion to begin the re-financing
process. Mr. Cooper explained that the re-financing process and that it would
require two readings of an ordinance and would take approximately forty-five
days and that after the second reading of the ordinance they would authorize
the sale of the bonds. Council Member Franzen asked if this would be a lengthy
process. Mr. Cooper stated that it would take forty-five to sixty days for the
entire process, as the bonds would be bid out. He explained that the most
important motivation for re-financing would be to protect the city from the
volatility of the market. Council Member Ketron asked if the sample interest
rates that were provided were close to what the city could expect to obtain.
Mr. Cooper stated that conservative rates were used, but felt they were better
than close but still contained a cushion. Council Member Ellison asked if the
bond counsel fees were included. Mr. Cooper stated that those fees would be
additional. Mr. Deters advised that bond counsel fees were unavoidable and
explained to council that he is not a certified bond counselor, but will handle
the local issues regarding the bonding. Mr. Cooper advised there is several
bond counsel firms the city can choose from and that he has worked with
several. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Cooper to disclose council of the other
Northern Kentucky agencies he has worked for. Mr. Cooper stated he has worked
with the cities of Erlanger, Edgewood, and Newport and St. Elizabeth Hospital,
the Sanitation District and the Airport.
9.   Council Member Yeager moved, with second by Council Member Franzen to
authorize Mayor Moriconi to enter into a financial advisory agreement with
Seasongood & Mayer regarding the re-financing of the bonds for the Municipal
Center and the Senior Center. Roll call was answered unanimously and the motion
carried 6-0.
Discussion & Possible Action Regarding the New Municipal Center
10.   Mayor Moriconi directed council to the bid tabulation sheet for the
Municipal Center. He stated the architects were present to answer any questions
regarding the bids received, contracts, etc. Council Member Behler asked the
architect to point out the location of the council chamber wing. Mr. Scott
Layman, Cole+Russell Architects, reviewed the building design and the bid
tabulation sheet with council. He explained that the contractors were asked to
provide a base bid for the entire building, two alternate bids, one each for
the addition of a clock tower (A-1 add B) and the addition of a detention basin
(A-2 add C) and one alternate bid that would be to construct the building minus
the council chamber wing (A-3 deduct D). He indicated that the low bidder was
Century Construction with Paul Hemmer Companies coming in second. Council
Member Bushong asked about the Century Construction bid which had a deduct bid
amount of $505,000 for the council chamber wing. Mayor Moriconi replied that
the original bid listed that amount, but Century stated after the bid opening
that there was a calculation error, with a corrected amount of $310,000. Mr.
Layman stated that since this is post-bid information, Century couldn’t submit
this information and will have grounds to withdraw their bid if Alternate A-
3 is a consideration by council. Mr. Layman stated that if council chooses to
construct the entire building the difference is $245,000 to keep the council
chamber wing. Mayor Moriconi advised that in effect Century Construction cannot
be awarded the bid if council chooses to remove the council chamber wing. Mr.
Layman explained that the next low bid from Paul Hemmer Companies would result
in a net savings of $245,000 if Alternate A-3 were part of the bid award.
Council Member Ellison asked if Century Construction was the lowest bid with
the council chamber wing. Mr. Layman replied that their bid was the lowest base
bid with the council chamber wing. Mr. Deters explained there was just an error
on Century’s bid in the calculation of the deduct amount for the council
chamber wing.
11.   Council Member Franzen expressed concern that if the project is delayed
and goes over budget the cost of the project could exceed available funds, and
the building would still need furniture, etc. She asked how likely this could
happen. Mr. Layman advised that a five percent contingency fund ($187,000) has
been built into the project costs. Mr. Deters stated that the city could incur
multiple change orders up to $187,000 and still come in at budget. Mr. Layman
also advised that the bid amounts came in as predicted and that the
construction contract will allow for the city to be compensated for each day
beyond the completion date as contracted. Mr. Lape of Cole+Russell commented
that Century Construction has stated in their bid that the project would be
completed within 400 days with the city being compensated $1,000 per day beyond
that. Council Member Franzen asked the architects to estimate the construction
cost of the council chamber wing if built ten years from now. Mr. Layman
replied that it would be difficult to predict but felt certain that the current
$62.49 per square foot cost would not be within reach in the future. Council
Member Franzen suggested that only the storage area below the council chambers
be built.
12.   Council Member Bushong asked about the detention basin. Mr. Layman
advised that technically the basin does not have to be constructed but that it
was added as an alternate bid at the direction of the former council. Mr.
Bushong asked if the detention basin was contingent on the placement of the
proposed amphitheater, as he thought it might be priced into the amphitheater
construction. Mr. Layman stated that Ehmet Hayes would design a preliminary
site plan. Council Member Yeager referred to a water problem with Mr. England’s
property that abuts the city park. Mr. Wendling stated that was an issue
presented by Mr. England at a council meeting several months ago. Council
Member Bushong commented that the construction of the detention basin would
drive up this project another $33,000. Mr. Layman stated that storm water
retention is always a good thing, but is not always necessary.
13.   Council Member Franzen asked how the size of the proposed council chamber
wing compares to the current meeting space in the courthouse. Mr. Wendling
stated that it is smaller. She asked the purpose of the executive session room
as observers could be asked to leave the room, as is the current practice. Mr.
Wendling stated the executive session room would allow private conversations
without violating the open meetings law and that the current arrangement is not
ideal as the conversations in the courtroom can be overheard in the lobby area
of the courthouse.
14.   Council Member Behler stated she was in favor of a council chamber wing.
She stated that the additional space for meetings would serve as a multiple
purposes and would be a resource for the community. She stated that free
meeting space is difficult to find and the Senior Center is being used a great
deal. Council Member Franzen expressed concern with building a grand council
chamber and commented that she had phoned about thirty people to gather input
on public preference – a council chambers wing or restrooms in the park. She
stated the overwhelming choice from those she polled was the preference for
restrooms in the park. Council Member Yeager advised that restrooms are already
planned for Memorial Park. Mayor Moriconi stated that the study of facilities
for Memorial Park might be ready and presented to council at the February
caucus meeting. He stated the study would offer various facilities with cost
estimates and that having sufficient funds would be key to the development
plans.
15.   Council Member Ketron commented that he felt the city would never again
be able to build the council chamber wing for $245,000 and that more than just
the council chamber room would be lost. He stated the space below the council
chambers would be lost, as well as the mechanical room, which takes up about
one-fourth of the area; it would have to be moved elsewhere in the building,
crowding the remaining lower level of the building. Council Member Bushong
stated the mechanical room was enlarged to have more storage of non-essential
items. He commented that he feels the public is upset with the $5M loan
obtained for this project and that he feels other things can be gained with
$245,000. He stated that the Senior Center has adequate meeting space and that
the city only pays $100 per month to the county for the use of the courtroom
for the council meetings. He stated he feels the city needs to do other things
for the residents and the he doesn’t feel a council chamber wing is needed. He
added that it might cost more to build ten years from now but that hopefully
the city will have more funds to pay for it in the future.
16.   Council Member Yeager commented that the city has already borrowed the
$5M and may as well continue the plans for the council chambers for only
$245,000. Council Member Bushong stated he sees no urgency for a council
chamber and that the city could add it later. Council Member Yeager responded
that the city shouldn’t have to run to the courthouse, to rent space for city
meetings. Council Member Ellison commented that city government centers around
the city building and that he feels the proposed cost of $62.49 per square to
construct this wing contributes to the urgency.
17.   Council Member Franzen asked if this wing would be used for meeting space
or only benefit the mayor and council. Council Member Yeager stated it would be
open to the public. Council Member Franzen suggested that Summit View Schools
and the Senior Center already provide plenty of meeting space available to the
public. Council Member Ellison stated that school facilities are only available
to organized groups. Council Member Franzen stated that what the community
needs are more sidewalks and restrooms in the parks. Council Member Ellison
commented that the development in the city of Independence has come a long way
in the last fifteen years and that public support won’t allow it to stop.
18.   Mayor Moriconi commented that this is a big decision. Mr. Tom Brinker, a
resident and member of the audience asked if the council chambers would be free
meeting space. Mr. Wendling stated it would be free to non-profit groups. Mr.
Brinker asked Mayor Moriconi if he could guarantee there would be funds left to
allocate for restrooms in the park. Mayor Moriconi said he felt he had to.
Council Member Yeager stated she felt there is no guarantee that the funds will
be available. Mayor Moriconi commented that the current Memorial Park fund
balance is $256,000 and that is not enough to construct the amphitheater.
Council Member Yeager commented if the amphitheater had been built three years
ago it wouldn’t have cost what it will now. Mr. Brinker commented that he feels
the city will never get this price again to build the council chamber wing.
Council Member Franzen stated that the only thing that concerns her with losing
the council chamber wing is the storage space below. Council Member Behler
countered that the city does not need the storage space now, but does need the
meeting space now and will in the future. Council Member Franzen argued that
she does not feel the need for meeting space justifies an additional $245,000
expense to this project. Mr. Wendling concurred that usage of the Senior Center
continues to climb.
19.   Mayor Moriconi commented that soft costs (furniture, telephone system,
etc.) are estimated to be about $275,000. Mr. Wendling stated that the audience
seating in the council chambers would be stack chairs so they could be stored
when not in use. Council Member Ketron inquired as to the balance of the $5M
that was borrowed for this project. Mayor Moriconi replied that the city has
been making monthly payments on this loan for about a year and have paid
architect fees and some soft costs with approximately $4.5 remaining for the
project. He stated the money is being invested and that in one month alone the
city earned $18,000 in interest, but the amount of interest will decrease as
expenses are incurred.
20.   Mr. Deters commented that the Fire District has regretted not adding a
basement area to the new firehouse. Council Member Yeager commented that the
Senior Center did not build a basement and needed one.
21.   Council Member Franzen maintained that she would like restrooms built in
Memorial Park, as well as the amphitheater, and was concerned this would not be
possible if the council chambers was added to the project. Mayor Moriconi
stated that he has reviewed the budget for the Municipal Center and feels if
the project comes in on budget there may be $50 - $60,000 left that could be
directed to Memorial Park. He advised that the amphitheater project now has a
fund of $256,000, but that additional revenue will be needed to accomplish this
project. Council Member Ketron commented that more parking spaces would be
needed if the park adds an amphitheater and restroom facilities. Mayor Moriconi
stated that Ehmet Hayes firm will supply a list of things for the park. Council
Member Franzen commented that it bothered her to build a council chambers wing
when there are no restrooms in the park. Council Member Ketron maintained that
it was not just about the council chambers, but the additional storage space
that the lower lever will provide.
22.   Council Member Behler moved, with second by Council Member Ellison to
award the construction bid of the Municipal Center including the council
chambers wing to Century Construction as the lowest bid. There was a brief
discussion regarding the retention basin and whether it was necessary to
include it in the bid. The architect advised it was not a requirement and
Council Member Ellison suggested the new Memorial Park design plans could
explore how a detention basin could fit in the plan. Mayor Moriconi asked for
the roll to be called. Roll call was answered for four yes votes and two no
votes cast by Council Members Bushong and Franzen. Motion carried 4-2. Mayor
Moriconi commented that the Municipal Center has been a long process and
thanked Mayor Kriege for getting the ball rolling.
Recess
23.   Council Member Yeager moved with second by Council Member Franzen to take
a brief recess. Motion carried unanimously.
24.   Council Member Ellison moved with second by Council Member Behler to
reconvene the meeting. Motion carried unanimously.
Discussion and Possible Action Regarding the City Engineer Services Contract
25.   Mayor Moriconi requested this item be moved up on the agenda. Hearing no
objections, he informed council that he would like to contract with CDS
Associates, Inc. for city engineering services. Council was presented with an
agreement for professional services with CDS for their consideration. He stated
that CDS would not do business with other clients in the city while they are
representing the city. He also commented that he would not require the city
engineer’s presence at all council meetings. Moriconi asked if council had any
questions.
26.   Council Member Yeager questioned Part IV of the agreement regarding
ownership of documents. President of CDS Associates, John Eisenmann, explained
that the ownership of documents is a legal issue and that the documents are a
product of their professional service. He advised the city would be provided
copies, but they would retain the official final document. Mr. Deters stated
that he sees no problem with this clause as long as the city has copies. Mr.
Eisenmann stated the city would have permission to utilize the document copies.
Mr. Eisenmann advised that CDS would designate Mark V. Brueggemann as the
principal engineer for the city with Jim Schumate as the backup. He stated they
see their firm as an extension of city staff and therefore will not work for
private developers that may conflict with the city’s interests. Council Member
Bushong asked what Mr. Brueggemann’s position would be. Mr. Eisenmann stated
that Mr. Brueggemann works out of the Florence office and would be the Senior
Manager for Independence. He advised that Mr. Brueggemann and Mr. Schumate
specialize in municipal engineering, with experience in twenty counties.
Council Member Ketron asked if CDS was a local firm. Mr. Eisenmann stated that
they are a local company with the main office in Blue Ash, Ohio. Council Member
Ellison commented that he knows Jim Schumate from his work with Estes
Engineering when that firm provided the City of Independence with engineering
services. He stated that Mr. Schumate is knowledgeable and helpful and feels
confident with his abilities.
Municipal Order No. 2003-MO-02 – Approving City Engineer Services Agreement
with CDS Associates
27.   Council Member Ellison moved to approve the contract agreement for city
engineering services with CDS Associates, with second by Council Member
Franzen. Council Member Bushong asked if the city paid an hourly rate to
Cardinal Engineering. Mr. Wendling responded yes as well as a $250 monthly
retainer. City Attorney, Mr. Deters read Municipal Order No. 2003-MO-02. Roll
call was answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Discussion Regarding An Interlocal Agreement with the Sanitation District No. 1
For Storm Water Regulations
28.   Mayor Moriconi advised council that representatives from the Sanitation
District, Jeff Eger and John Lyons, were present to explain the federally
mandated storm water regulation program and answer questions He advised that
all cities must comply with this mandate and the deadline for the
implementation of this program is March 10, 2003. He also advised that the
Sanitation District is proposing an Interlocal Agreement to provide the city
with storm water discharge permit services and other storm water related
services. Mayor Moriconi stated that this matter is being discussed for
information purposes; no action will be taken tonight, but will be deferred to
the business meeting on February 3, 2003.
29.   Mr. Jeff Eger (Sanitation District representative) advised council that
all cities are obligated to comply with this unfounded federal mandate. He
stated that the Sanitation District was asked to assist the local cities and
has been working with city leaders on a proposal to deal with the new
regulations and work out a transfer of ownership of the storm water system. He
advised that by March 10, 2003 an application and management plan must be
submitted to the Kentucky Division of Water for the thirty-three Northern
Kentucky communities, as well as the counties of Boone, Campbell and Kenton,
that were specifically listed in the EPA Phase II storm water regulations. Mr.
Eger advised that the proposed plan has addressed the following compliance
issues:
∙   Public education and outreach
∙   Public involvement and participation
∙   Illicit discharge detection and elimination
∙   Control of construction site runoff
∙   Post-construction storm water management
∙   Pollution prevention and good housekeeping
Mr. Eger advised that the cost per resident to maintain this storm water
management program is proposed at $5.00 per month which would be assessed on
the quarterly sanitation bill. He stated this assessment was based on square
footage. He stated they have estimated a $3,000,000 per year capital budget to
address the needs of this program and a $2,000,000 debt service at the end of
the five-year cycle to be used to operate and maintain the system.
30.   Council Member Ellison asked if every house would be billed the $5.00 per
month even if they did not have public sewers. Mr. Eger replied yes. Council
Member Bushong asked what other cities were doing. Mr. Eger stated that the
focus group, comprised of city representatives, has met for the last two years
to discuss and draft the proposed interlocal agreement, which has been provided
to Mr. Deters for review.
31.   There was a lengthy discussion regarding the assessment fee to the
residents and the feasibility of Independence handling this federally mandated
regulation without the assistance of the Sanitation District. Mayor Moriconi
commented that he felt there was strength in numbers. Council Member Franzen
felt if the city took on this responsibility, they it may cost the residents
more. Council Member Yeager expressed concern that the rates would increase,
just as the sanitation tap-in fees did when the Sanitation District took over
the maintenance of the city’s sewer lines several years ago; from $600.00 to
$1,800.00 for each tap-in. Mr. Eger countered by stating there has been no
increase in those rates in the past five years.
32.   Mr. Eger stated the survey work has been costly and that the District has
already invested $8,000,000 into this project and if the city chooses to go it
alone they would either have to compile their own inventory or buy it from the
District. Council Member Ellison took objection to Mr. Eger’s statement and
argued that the rate payers already paid this debt and suggested that maybe the
District was overcharging.
33.   Council Member Franzen asked if the city had to be in compliance by March
10. Mr. Eger advised that an application for a permit had to be submitted to
the Kentucky Division of Water along with a plan of action no later than March
10, 2003. He stated that the city does not have time to conduct an inventory of
the storm water system and develop a plan of action in time to meet the March
10th deadline. Council Member Yeager asked for assurance that there would be no
increase of the $5.00 assessment fee. Mr. Eger stated he could not promise
there would be no increase as the $5.00 is an estimated rate. He stated that a
Board of Directors would make that decision. He advised that the Kenton County
Judge Executive appoints the members on the Board of Directors. Council Member
Ellison commented that the county doesn’t protect the city funds. Council
Member Bushong asked if the $5.00 assessment fee could possibly be adjusted a
little lower. Mr. Eger stated they would continue to look at the costs
involved. Council Member Franzen asked if they could guarantee that assessment
fees from Independence residents would not fund the problems of other cities.
Mr. Eger stated they would address all the issues in a manageable manner and
lay out a plan. Council Member Ellison stated he would like the agreement to
provide the city with some control in negotiating the assessment rate charged
to the residents. Council Member Ketron asked if the city would have some
responsibility regarding maintenance tasks. Mr. Eger stated the city would have
to provide storm sewer maintenance for the first five years until the
Sanitation District takes over ownership of the city’s system. Council Member
Yeager asked what the District would do for the first five years. Mr. Eger
stated they would do all compliance, enforcement and permits.
34.   Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Eger when the Agreement would be ready for the
city to consider. Mr. Eger stated it is undergoing some minor language
amendments and should be ready later this week. Mr. Deters asked if there would
be opportunity for city amendments. Mr. Eger replied no, not with thirty-six
cities taking part in this agreement. Council Member Yeager reiterated her
concern with the proposed assessment rate of $5.00 per month per household.
Council Member Franzen proposed each city should agree to a rate charged to
their residents. Mr. Eger countered that city’s do not have input on the
sanitation rates and that state laws govern the rate review. Mr. Deters asked
if this could be delegated to each entity. Mr. Eger responded that it would be
reviewed y the Council of Local Government. Mr. Deters asked if the final draft
of the Agreement would have an “opt out” provision. Mr. Eger replied no, but
added that at the end of the five years, if a city wanted to keep their storm
water system they would be able to do that. Council Member Yeager suggested
that since the sanitation billing is done on a quarterly basis that the $5.00
per month proposed assessment rate be advertised as $15.00 per quarter.
35.   Council Member Behler asked if the city is expected to vote on this
Agreement at the next council meeting. Mayor Moriconi advised that when it
comes time for council to authorize him to enter into this agreement with the
Sanitation District a Resolution would be submitted to council for their
consideration. Mr. Eger mentioned that they would take over the plan review for
storm sewers in new construction and there would be no duplication of services
by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission. There being no further
discussion, Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Eger for attending the meeting and
explaining this mandated regulation and the proposed interlocal agreement.
Ordinance No. 2003-O- 01 – Setting Council Meeting Date & Times
36.   Mayor Moriconi presented, for second reading the proposed ordinance
setting the dates and times for council’s regular monthly business meeting and
establishing and setting regular monthly caucus meetings on the third Monday of
each month. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Council Member Bushong
moved, with second by Council Member Ketron to adopt Ordinance No. 2003-O- 01
as read. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-04 – Appointments to the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Council
37.   Mayor Moriconi read and presented to council for endorsement Executive
Order 2003-EO-04 designating himself as the principal representative for the
city on the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Council and Council Member Ellison
as the alternate representative. Council Member Bushong moved, with second by
Council Member Yeager to approve Executive Order 2003-EO-04 as presented. Roll
call was answered with five yeas, with Council Member Ellison voicing a pass
vote. Motion carried.
Adjournment
38.   There being no further business on the special meeting agenda, Mayor
Moriconi asked for a motion to adjourn. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a
second by Council Member Behler. Motion carried unanimously and the meeting
adjourned at 9:37 p.m.
_______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 3, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
February 3, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the
Independence Christian Church gave the invocation and called for a moment of
silence in memory of the fallen Columbia space shuttle and the demise of all
seven astronauts on board. The roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol
Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters and City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling.
Presentation of Proclamations
2.   Mayor Moriconi presented proclamations to Boy Scouts, Robert Graydon and
Gregory Benoit on their recent achievement of Eagle Scout rank. Mayor Moriconi
welcomed Boy Scout Troops Number 8 and Number 71 that were attending the
meeting to earn their communication badges. He encouraged them to continue
their good work and stated his appreciation of their community service.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 6, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January
6, 2003 regular meeting of council. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second from Council Member Ketron. No amendments were noted and roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 13, 2003 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January
13, 2003 special meeting of council. Council Member Ellison moved, with second
from Council Member Bushong. Several amendments were noted and approved. Roll
call was answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Mr. Jeff Whorf, 5375 Valleycreek Drive addressed council regarding his
concern about the amount of garbage and litter that is strewn throughout the
city. He stated it is unsightly and decreases property values. Mr. Whorf
offered three suggestions to keep the city clean:
1.   Impose a fee or surcharge on direct mail companies that could be used to
clean up the fliers and pouches of information they leave on mailboxes that get
blown away and turn into litter.
2.   Pass an ordinance that would require all trash to be placed in a container
with a lid, when left at the curb for pickup. He stated this would prevent
animals from tearing apart plastic trash bags. He stated that other communities
in which he has lived had such an ordinance.
3.   Encourage the police to enforce existing litter laws. To raise awareness,
he suggested putting up no littering signs stating the dollar amount of the
fine.
Mr. Whorf stated that the trash collectors also spread litter when they dump
the can in the truck and then place the can back on the ground upside down
dumping leftover debris all over the ground. He stated it would only take the
truck attendant a couple of extra seconds to place the can upright and replace
the lid. He also suggested enlisting non-violent county jail prisoners to clean
up the side of the roads. He encouraged council to implement some of his
proposals that he feels will make a big difference over the long term in
keeping the city clean.
6.   Mayor Moriconi suggested the city might urge organizations to sponsor
designated highway sections to provide clean up along the roadways. He stated
the council could discuss this further at the caucus meeting, as this would
require many sponsors. He advised that the city would hold a spring clean up in
April that would provide large dumpsters for residents to dispose of large
items.
7.   Council Member Bushong commented that he thought all mail placed in
mailboxes was required to have postage affixed and suggested the city attorney
research this. Council Member Ellison suggested the city notify local carriers
that the city will not tolerate haphazard distribution of advertising
materials. Council Member Franzen suggested specific tubes designed to hold
this type of material would be affixed to all mailboxes to control this type of
litter. Mayor Moriconi directed the city administrator to contact a
representative of the Door-to-Door Advertising Company to convey the council’s
concerns.
Discussion of Zone Change Request by Thelma & Robert Gibson for 5190 Madison
Pike
8.   Mayor Moriconi informed council that Mr. & Mrs. Gibson were present to
request a zone change for property they own at 5190 Madison Pike. He asked Mr.
Deters to explain the matter. Mr. Deters explained that the Gibson’s have
applied for a map amendment to rezone this property from R-1D, a single-family
residential zone, to R-1DD, which is a single and two family residential zone.
This property currently has a deteriorated single-family structure on the site
and the Gibson’s would like to raze the house and build a two family duplex,
which would be rental property. He stated that the Planning Commission has
recommended that the zone change be denied based on the fact that the request
does not comply with the adopted comprehensive plan and that the approximate .3
acres would constitute “spot” zoning. He stated that the zoning ordinance
requires that zone R-1DD contain a minimum of five acres. Mr. Deters advised
council that they have four options
1.   Do nothing – which would essentially uphold the Planning Commission’s
decision
2.   Follow the recommendation without a hearing or only an argument-type
hearing
3.   Review the record of the hearing before the commission and determine from
that evidence adjudicative facts which differ from those found by the
commission, and then override the Commission’s recommendation based on those
facts
4.   Council could hold its own trial-type of public hearing and find as a
result thereof different adjudicative facts than those found by the commission
and then disapprove the recommendation based upon those facts.
Mr. Deters advised council that they should decide which option they would like
to pursue before entering into a discussion on this matter. Mayor Moriconi
advised council that they have been presented with the Planning Commission’s
minutes from the January 2, 2003 public hearing on this. Mr. Deters advised
that the council could hear point of opinion from the Gibson’s and the
neighbors, but they cannot present new evidence to council. He stated that in
order for council to override the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the
city would have to determine different facts.
9.   Council Member Ellison stated that he was prepared to follow option number
three. Council Member Franzen asked what would happen if council rejected the
recommendation. Mr. Deters advised that council would need to have a hearing to
obtain evidence to support that opinion. He stated it would be advisable to
review the actual transcript of the Planning Commission’s meeting and not just
the summary minutes. Council Member Franzen asked if this could be decided at
the caucus meeting later in the month. Mr. Deters stated no action could be
taken at the caucus meeting.
10.   It was decided to allow the Gibson’s and neighbors to address council,
but they were cautioned not to disclose any information that was not heard at
the Planning Commission’s public hearing on this matter. Mr. & Mrs. Gibson had
a prepared copy that they wanted to distribute to council. Mr. Deters denied
that request. Mrs. Gibson stated that their zone change request has been denied
in large part due to the size of the lot, which is noted as 0.3 acres, but in
fact is 0.34 according to the deed. She argued that the area does not lend
itself to high-end construction, with a vacant convenience store nearby. She
stated that there are other duplexes throughout the city, which does not
adversely hurt those areas. Mrs. Gibson also objected to the Planning
Commission’s report wherein it was repeatedly noted that they proceeded with
this zone change despite information and advise from the city that the request
did not meet the minimum size for a new zone. Mrs. Gibson advised council that
they now have a development plan prepared and are ready to proceed with the
construction of a ranch style duplex with a common driveway. She stated that
the proposed structure would be rental property with the option to buy. In
closing she stated the city’s deadline to raze the current structure is
February 20, 2003 and stated they would not be able to meet this time frame and
she asked for an extension.
11.   Tony Stenger, 5188 Madison Pike, spoke in opposition to this development
plan by the Gibson’s. He stated that he lives next door to the property. He
urged council to look at the facts and stated that ultimately, the neighbors do
not want a multifamily structure in this area.
12.   Pat McCleese, 5181 Madison Pike, stated she has lived there for 35 years.
She stated she has lived next to apartments in the past and that she was
concerned that this being rental property, it would not be maintained properly.
13.   There being no further comments, Mayor Moriconi asked council how they
wanted to proceed. Council Member Ketron moved, with second by Council Member
Behler to accept the recommendation of the Planning Commission, that being to
disapprove the zone change request. Further discussion ensued. Council Member
Ketron stated that based on the Planning Commission’s recommendation granting
this zone change would constitute “spot” zoning since the property in question
is less than the five acres necessary for the R-1DD zone. He stated that he
does not believe the city will uncover sufficient data to defy their
recommendation. He stated that he personally likes the two-family design, but
considering the size of the lot, and no supporting facts to grant this map
amendment, he feels the city has no choice but to support the Commission’s
recommendation. Council Member Ellison stated that the Comprehensive Plan is
just a guideline for development, not concrete. He stated that he does not feel
the minimum five acres requirement will support their recommendation to
disapprove this zone change request by the Gibson’s. He stated that further
evidence can be obtained from the Planning Commission’s own GIS system. Council
Member Yeager agreed that the city should have all information before voting.
Council Member Ellison commented that the Planning Commission is the research
body for the cities and they should provide all applicable info. Mr. Deters
advised the city could pay for a detailed transcript of the public hearing that
the Planning Commission held.
14.   Council Member Behler stated that she seconded the motion as she feels
making small zone changes will bring about a zoning hodgepodge, even if the
city opposed the Comprehensive Plan, or produced further evidence, the property
still does not meet the minimum five acres for the R-1DD zone that the Gibson’s
are requesting.
15.   Council Member Franzen stated that she hasn’t decided how to vote in this
matter, as she understands both sides. She stated she would like all the
necessary information, so as to have a well-informed opinion before taking
action on this matter.
16.   Council Member Ketron stated that council must look at the precedence
this would set if the city permitted this type of zone on a smaller lot. A
precedence that could be repeated throughout the years. Mayor Moriconi
commented that the size of the lot is 100 x 150 feet. Council Member Ellison
stated that the Planning Commission wasn’t established until 1966 and that the
Gibson property was probably plotted in the early 1940’s which would be
protected by the grandfather law. Council Member Ketron disagreed by stating
that the grandfather law would not apply to a new structure that the Gibson’s
are proposing.
17.   Council Member Bushong asked that the roll be called on the motion or
that it be withdrawn. Council Member Yeager felt since the lot is greater than
13,000 square feet that the disapproval by the Planning Commission is
questionable. Council Member Behler reiterated that the “spot” zoning for this
lot was the determining issue for her decision to uphold the recommendation of
the Planning Commission. Council Member Franzen commented that she is
interested in hearing more of Council Member Ellison’s position.
18.   At this time, Mayor Moriconi directed the roll to be called. The roll
call resulted in a 3-3 vote by council with Council Members Ketron, Behler and
Bushong voting ayes and Council Members Ellison, Franzen and Yeager voting no.
Mr. Deters advised that Mayor Moriconi has the authority to vote on this matter
in order to break the tie and distributed the state Attorney General’s Opinion
upholding stating this. Mayor Moriconi stated that based on Mr. Deters advise
he would cast a vote. He voted yes. Motion to approve the recommendation of the
Planning Commission to deny the zone change request for the property located at
5190 Madison Pike carried by a vote of 4-3.
19.   Mr. Deters advised he would draft a resolution regarding this decision
and will present it at the next council meeting.
Zoning Compliance Extension to 5190 Madison Pike Property Owned by Robert &
Thelma Gibson
20.   Council Member Franzen prompted council regarding the Gibson’s need to be
given an extension on the current situation of the property. The current
extension expires on February 20, 2003. Council Member Ellison moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager to grant the Gibson’s a ninety day extension
(from February 20, 2003) to raze the current structure on the property. Roll
call was answered unanimously.
Resolution No. 2003-R-02 – Authorizing Advertisement for Bids for the Municipal
Center Bonds
21.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R- 02 that would
authorize the advertisement for bids and distribution of preliminary official
statement for the purchase of city refunding bonds, with an aggregate principal
not to exceed $5,000,000. Mr. Deters read the resolution.
22.   Council Member Franzen moved, with second by Council Member Behler to
approve Resolution No. 2003-R-02. Council Member Ketron asked if this re-
financing was a consolidation of the Senior Center and the Municipal Center
debts. Mr. Cooper, of Seasongood & Mayer, responded by stating that they worked
with the numbers and decided to leave the two loans separate as the Senior
Center only has eight years remaining on that loan – so this resolution applies
only to the Municipal Center debt. Mayor Moriconi stated they checked various
options and discovered there would not be significant savings in refinancing
the Senior Center. At this time the roll was call and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Authorizing the Issuance of Municipal Center Project
Refunding Bonds, Series 2003 – 1st Reading
23.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for consideration a proposed
ordinance authorizing the issuance of general obligation public project
refunding bonds, Series 2003 in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed
$5,000,000. He advised this would begin the process of refinancing the
Municipal Center project debt with a fixed interest rate. Mr. Deters read the
ordinance in summary. Mayor Moriconi stated that a special council meeting
would be scheduled prior to the caucus meeting on February 24th so that a
second reading could take place.
Resolution No. 2003-R-03 – Approving an Interlocal Agreement with the
Sanitation District No. 1 Regarding Storm Water Regulations
24.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-03 that would
authorize him to enter into, and execute on behalf of the city an interlocal
agreement with Sanitation District No. 1 to provide the city with Kentucky
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (KPDES) storm water discharge permit
services and other storm water related services. Mr. Deters read the
resolution.
25.   Mayor Moriconi introduced John Lyons from the Sanitation District who was
present to answer questions council might have regarding this agreement. Mr.
Lyons advised that the Storm Water Management Plan could be viewed on the
Sanitation District’s website. He stated the Plan outlines capital improvements
of the storm water infrastructure. Council Member Ketron asked about the cost
to the residents. Mr. Lyons stated that initially the surcharge cost was to be
$5.00 per month but that amount has now been adjusted to $3.75 per month.
Council Member Ellison asked if the city could attach an addendum to this
agreement that would provide the city with input should the District ever
request an increase in this surcharge. Mr. Lyons stated that would not be
permissible. He stated that the Sanitation District has been committed to
consolidating the storm water system for the various cities and the first
priority will be to focus on Phase II regulations, which the individual cities
are not able to fund on their own. He stated that one of the goals would be the
ultimate transfer of the storm water system to the Sanitation District along
with providing more regional service to storm water management. He stated that
the federal deadline for the permit application is March 10, 2003. Council
Ellison asked if each city would be provided a copy of the permit to display in
a public place. Mr. Lyons replied yes. He informed council that for the first
five years the city will still be the owner of the system and will have certain
obligations. He stated that the Sanitation district will be responsible for the
operation and management of the system and that the revenue generated from the
surcharge will go toward the elimination of unlawful discharges found those
first five years. He stated that the District would prioritize improvement
projects with the excess funds generated from the surcharge. Council Member
Franzen asked if the surcharge would go into one fund or separated by city. Mr.
Lyons stated there would be one fund. Mayor Moriconi commented there is
strength in numbers. Council Member Yeager expressed concern that the surcharge
would be increased without city input. She also suggested, that since the
residents are billed on a quarterly basis, that the Sanitation District
publicize that the surcharge would be $11.25 per quarter.
26.   Mr. Lyons stated that initially the primary focus would be on water-based
issues. Mayor Moriconi asked if the Plan would cover flooding issues. Mr. Lyons
stated that the Plan was not setup to address flooding problems.
27.   Mr. Lyons informed council that the Sanitation District was not named on
the list of entities that had to comply with these federally mandated
regulations. The District was asked by some of the local cities to assist them
in this responsibility, and collectively the region is implementing this
agreement. Council Member Franzen commented that the city could not afford to
meet these federal compliances for $3.75 per month. Mr. Lyons advised that
unimproved parcels would be the only exception to the $3.75 per month
surcharge.
28.   There being no further discussion, Council Member Franzen moved, with
second by Council Member Behler to approve Resolution No. 2003-R-03. Roll call
was answered unanimously; motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Codification of Ordinances – 1st Reading
29.   Mayor Moriconi presented for first reading a proposed ordinance enacting
and adopting the 2001 S-6 supplement to the code of ordinances. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance. Council Member Ellison moved, with second by Council
Member Yeager to be approved on first reading and held for second reading at
the next meeting of council.
Resolution No. 2003-R- 04 – Opposing Mandated State Health Insurance Coverage
30.   Mayor Moriconi presented for council’s approval a resolution that would
oppose legislation that would require local governments to pay an additional
monthly fee to the Kentucky Retirement System for each retired employee. Mr.
Wendling explained that the Kentucky League of Cities, who is concerned about
the effect this legislation will have on cities, has proposed this resolution.
He stated that the additional monthly fee that would be paid to the Retirement
System by the cities is an effort to combat the rising health insurance cost
for Kentucky teachers. He stated that this resolution is meant to send a
message of opposition of this mandate to the state legislators. Mr. Wendling
explained that while this will not affect Independence for a while, it could be
a hard hit in the future. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2003-R- 04.
31.   Council Member Bushong moved, with second by Council Member Yeager to
approve Resolution No. 2003-R-04 as read. Roll call was answered unanimously;
motion carried 6-0.
Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
32.   Mr. Wendling reported that the Taylor Smith house has been razed as part
of the groundwork taking place for construction of the new Municipal Center. He
also reported that the Industrial Road Improvements Project is moving forward
and should be underway by mid-summer 2003. He advised that the Boone County
Fiscal Court will be the project manager for this collaborative roadwork and it
is estimated to take twelve months to complete.
Miscellaneous Discussion
33.   Council Member Yeager suggested that Council Member Ellison, having
received the most council candidate votes in the general election, should be
officially named the Vice-Mayor. Mr. Deters stated that would not be necessary,
as the city has an ordinance in place that addresses the Vice Mayor position.
34.   Council Member Ketron asked Mr. Deters for an update on the Lipscomb
annexation issue. Mr. Deters stated he has researched the matter and that
council will discuss this at the caucus meeting later this month. Mayor
Moriconi advised council would take action on this matter at the March business
meeting.
35.   Council Member Bushong asked the Mayor to establish the council
committees before the caucus meeting so everyone would be aware of their
committee appointment. Mayor Moriconi advised that committees would be
discussed at the caucus meeting. Council Member Bushong stated he would like to
know what committees he will be appointed to before the caucus meeting. Mayor
Moriconi explained the objective of a caucus meeting was to reduce the number
of meetings and that he did not anticipate many actual committee meetings.
36.   Council Member Bushong commented that the financial reports are not clear
and that he is having difficulty making sense of some of the fund accounts. He
stated he did not understand why the Building Fund did not reflect a zero
account balance, as there were not sufficient funds in that account to pay the
entire purchase price of the Taylor Smith property. He recalled that the
balance had to be taken from the $5,000,000 Municipal Center bond.
37.   Council Member Ellison addressed the unresolved zoning violations at the
abandoned MPG store at the corner of Madison Pike and Independence Station
Road. He stated that it is turning into an unofficial “used car lot”. He
requested that the city notify the owner of this property, Duke and Long, and
instruct them to secure this property. Mr. Wendling stated the city has made
contact with the company but has received little response. Mr. Deters cautioned
city intrusion, as this property is in bankruptcy.
38.   The illegal sign posted in the Beechgrove Shopping Plaza was also
discussed. Mr. Deters advised that an appeal by the owner is scheduled for the
next Board of Adjustment hearing. Council Member Franzen stated that the city
issued a permit for this sign in error and the owners are trying to exhaust all
avenues to retain the sign.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
39.   Mayor Moriconi announced that the groundbreaking ceremony and reception
would be held this Saturday, February 8, 2003 at 11:00 a.m. He stated the
reception would be held in the Senior Center.
Adjournment
40.   There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn,
with second by Council Member Ketron. Motion carried with all ayes and the
meeting adjourned at 8:54 p.m.
                  _______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 24, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL CAUCUS MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
24, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Independence Senior Citizens and Community Center
in Independence with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi
called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. The roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim
Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Also present
was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters, City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling and
Finance Director, Janet Rebman.
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone to the first caucus meeting. He advised that
the caucus meetings would provide more flexibility for discussions and
basically be a pre-game for the regular business meeting on the first Monday of
each month.
Privileges of the Floor
Martin Neltner, 6239 Taylor Mill Road addressed council on three issues.
∙   Speed Limit on Route 16 – He expressed concern with the speed limit on
Route 16 (Taylor Mill Road). He feels the speed limit should be reduced to 35
mph and then enforced. Currently the speed limit fluctuates with most drivers
averaging 55 mph. There have already been a couple of fatalities on this road.
He suggested the city request the state highway department to do a study, as
something has to be done.
∙   Zoning Violations on his property located at 6445 Taylor Mill Road (the old
Cherokee Bowl) – Mr. Neltner expressed his frustration with the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission and the hassle he feels they have unduly put
him through the past year regarding seeming zoning heating and air conditioning
unit violations at this location. He stated he has made $1,800,000 in
improvements to this building, and that the Planning Commission has cost him
dollars in construction delays, etc. He was upset that the Planning Commission
overlooked this aspect regarding the placement of these units when the
improvement plans were submitted to them for approval. This oversight cost him
an additional $4,000 for a fence to act as a buffer to the adjoining
properties. He wanted council to be aware of these issues that he has
encountered with the Planning Commission.
∙   Horse Arena on his property at 6239 Taylor Mill Road – He stated that he
initially received city support for this project but is currently been required
to go before the Board of Adjustments for a fifth time, which continues to
stall the project. He stated that he has not personally attended these meetings
as he is busy and has sent professionals to speak for him. He stated he has
never received the city’s concerns regarding this project in writing. He stated
this horse arena is not for profit. Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld,
commented that Mr. Neltner has received the general notifications of the Board
meetings.
Update on Lipscomb Annexation Issue
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters, provided a written report to council regarding
his research and opinion on Karen Lipscomb and John Schoborg’s dispute with the
city that their property (previously owned by their deceased father, Norb
Schoborg) was not annexed into the city in 1978. He advised that based on his
review of the city council meeting minutes of 1978, the map and legal
description of the annexed parcels, that everything looks to be in order. He
stated that the map that was attached to the ordinance on file at the county
courthouse removes any ambiguity even though the legal description of the
annexed parcels is a little irregular. But, he stated, that does not make it
invalid. He stated that in his legal opinion it is a valid annexation, which
includes the Lipscomb/Schoborg properties.
Ms. Lipscomb expressed some confusion with Mr. Deters findings and claims she
has been given conflicting information from the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission. Mr. Deters directed her to the County Clerk’s office and the
Planning Commission if she wants to pursue this matter and do further research.
Budget Amendment for Fiscal-Year 2002/03
Mayor Moriconi presented for council’s review a proposed budget amendment for
the current fiscal year. He advised he would like to have a first reading of
the ordinance at the March 3, 2003 regular council meeting, with the second
reading at the April meeting. He stated that Finance Director, Janet Rebman,
was present to point out the items that need to be amended.
Ms. Rebman pointed out the major amendments:
∙   Audited Fund Balances that were forwarded from the prior fiscal year – she
stated that these figures were estimated as the budget was adopted prior to the
city audit.
∙   Municipal Center Fund – big revision as the revenue was documented last
year and the carry forward amount reflects a $4,000,000 balance.
Mark Wendling pointed out other significant amendments:
∙   Resource Officer grants
∙   Amphitheater funds being transferred in to pay for design fees – he stated
that next year’s budget would provide for additional funds to be transferred in
to pay for the actual construction of the amphitheater.
∙   Snow Removal – budgeted $30,000, but to date the actual expenses well
exceed this amount. Mayor Moriconi advised that the city’s public works
employees clear approximately 25% of the city’s streets with the county
contracted to treat the remainder of the streets for the city. He stated that
he plans to offset some funds diverted from the Police Department salaries into
this line item, as the Police Department budget has surplus funds ($21,600) in
the personnel expenses due to employee’s absences due to workers compensation
and short-term disability leaves.
Police Chief, Shawn Butler pointed to some amendments in his budget:
∙   Increased revenues due to a grant received for the resource officers
∙   Over budget in Workers Compensation insurance – due to increase in premiums
∙   $109,000 in amendments will be pass thru expenses from the revenue received
from grants.
Mayor Moriconi advised council to review this proposed budget amendment in
preparation to have a first reading of the ordinance at next Monday’s business
meeting.
Mayor’s Priorities and Goals for 2003
Mayor Moriconi requested that each council member decide on his or her top two
goals to bring forth at the next caucus meeting.
He outlined his goals as listed below.
∙   Municipal Center
∙   Amphitheater
∙   Streets
∙   Sidewalks – start a letter writing campaign to solicit state funds for the
installation of sidewalks along the state maintained streets.
∙   Laptop Computers – to do away with council meeting packets, thereby
reducing paperwork
∙   Eliminate primary elections
∙   New “Welcome to the city” signs
∙   Random drug testing for employees
∙   Senior Center Sign
∙   City’s website – utilize more effectively
∙   Aggressively pursue light commercial development
∙   Recognition of Local Businesses – on a monthly basis, Mayor and each
council member will rotate each month a business they would like to acknowledge
by presenting a plaque or proclamation at each monthly business meeting. He
stated he would like to recognize Nick’s Grove Restaurant at the March meeting
Memorial Park Development Plan
Mayor introduced architects Ehmet Hayes and Joe Hayes, who made a Power Point
presentation of the plan they have developed for Memorial Park. Mayor Moriconi
advised he would like council to consider this Plan for adoption at the March
3, 2003 business meeting.
Mr. Ehmet Hayes advised this was a comprehensive plan that could be developed
in phases as the budget allowed. His proposal outlined cost estimates for
parking lots, access streets (a connector to Peach Drive and a new Memorial
Park Drive), improvements to the existing athletic (soccer/football) field,
playground, shelters, restrooms, lighting of Memorial Park Drive, amphitheater,
volleyball courts basketball courts, 8 foot asphalt walking trails, 4 foot
mulch trails, sidewalks, grading allowance, storm/sewer allowance, as well as a
contingency fund. Total cost $1,160,525.
Complete Master Plan for Memorial Park as designed by Robert Ehmet Hayes &
Associates Architects is attached to these minutes as part of the record.
Mayor Moriconi advised that the city currently has a fund balance of $256,000
reserved for the development of this park. He suggested using these funds to
proceed with the construction of the Phase I Platform Portion of the
amphitheater for $200,000, a restroom near the current shelter building and one
of the proposed parking lots.
Council Member Behler expressed concern that landscaping expenses were not part
of this proposal, as she feels this is an integral element to the
beautification of the park. Mr. Hayes stated no allowances were made for
landscaping, but it could be added.
Council Member Ketron asked if electric lines were currently in place. Mr.
Hayes advised electric lines are already in the park.
Mr. Hayes stated he would need an exact dollar figure from council in order to
develop the first phase of this development.
Council Member Bushong suggested that the city proceed with only two of the
facilities, as there will be architect fees associated with Phase I so that the
expenses do not exceed the current funds on hand. Council discussed the options
of constructing restrooms versus additional parking.
Mayor Moriconi advised council to review the enclosed contract for basic
services and associated fees proposed by the architect firm for Phase I of the
development plan that would include the amphitheater, restrooms near the
present shelter building and a parking lot east of the Senior Center.
Text Amendment for 5209 Madison Pike (Old Independence School House site)
The property owners addressed council regarding their development plans for
this building. Mr. Wendling advised council that the owners approached the city
several months ago with their plan for this building and the owners were
advised that there are no provisions in the city’s zoning ordinance that would
permit a church or mosque in a Neighborhood Commercial (NC) zone.
One of the owners, George Soister, advised that they would like to restore the
building and remodel to accommodate a residence for two Tibetan Buddhist Monks
as well as hold religious services in the building.
Mr. Wendling advised this property is not on the historical register and would
probably not meet requirements, as it does not have the original windows.
Council Member Ellison suggested the text amendment allow for a “conditional
use” and include a two-story dwelling. Mr. Deters agreed that it would be more
appropriate as a “conditional use.” Council Member Ellison agreed that making a
text amendment would give the city more control instead of the Planning
Commission.
Mr. Wendling stated the text amendment application fee is $150.00, which the
property owners have agreed to pay. He stated the process would take a few
months and that after the application is made it would probably be May before
the city receives a recommendation from the Planning Commission for approval/
disapproval of this request. Then council would act on that recommendation.
Appointment of Council Committee Chairs (Department Liaisons)
Mayor Moriconi appointed Department Chairs and stated he would ask for a report
from each at the caucus meetings.
∙   Planning & Zoning - Council Member Mary Pat Behler with primary staff
contact – Annie Wuestefeld (NKAPC – contracted Zoning Administrator)
∙   Public Safety - Council Member Jim Bushong with primary staff contact
Police Chief Shawn Butler
∙   Building & Finance - Council Member Otis Ketron with primary staff contact
Finance Director Janet Rebman
∙   Administration & Personnel - Council Member Jim Ellison with primary staff
contact City Clerk Patricia Taney
∙   Public Works - Council Member Carol Franzen with primary staff contact
Public Works Crew Leader Jeff Smith
∙   Parks & Recreation - Council Member Donna Yeager with primary staff contact
Recreation Director Nita Brake
Appointment of Citation Officer, Zoning Administrator – Annie Wuestefeld
Mr. Wendling advised the city needed to add to the list of current citation
officers for the city, Annie Wuestefeld who also acts as the city’s Zoning
Administrator. He stated that the former Zoning Administrator, Rich McAllister
had held this position, but Annie has taken his place. He stated that since she
has not been appointed as a citation officer for the city she currently has to
take a police officer with her to perform these duties. Mayor Moriconi advised
this is not a new position as she is already the Zoning Administrator for
Independence as a contracted service through the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission. Council discussed providing Ms. Wuestefeld with proper
identification.
Mayor Moriconi advised that the city attorney would draft the necessary
resolution to appoint her as a citation officer for the city and it would be
presented at the March 3, 2003 business meeting for council’s consideration.
Simon Kenton High School Project Prom Donation
Simon Kenton High School has made their annual request for this contribution to
their Project Prom party. The City Clerk advised they city has donated $500.00
each year for the last few years as well as donations to the Independence Lions
Club for the annual Easter Egg Hunt. City attorney, Mr. Deters expressed is
concern over the legality of using tax dollars to make these kinds of
donations. He will research this and report back to council at a future
meeting.
Miscellaneous Discussion
Council Member Bushong expressed concern that the Senior Center generated very
little revenue for rental of the facility last year and suggested the building
needed more paying customers to offset some of the expenses of the Center. He
reported that it was rented seventeen times and generated only $2,400.00. He
would like the city to come up with ideas to generate interest in renting this
building. The Senior Center Director, Joan Bowling stated she is working on
this.
Council Member Bushong addressed the issue of job titles for employees and
suggested looking into a change for the Recreation Director due to high workers
compensation insurance premiums for this position. He feels it could save the
city some money. Council Members Ellison and Yeager voiced their objection to
changing the job title of this position. Council Member Yeager stated the high
premiums are not just in this job position and was concerned if the title was
changed it may be a loss of a city department. Council Member Ellison commented
that the high premiums are based on claim experience.
Adjournment:
There being no further business to discuss, Council Member Franzen moved to
adjourn, with a second by Council Member Ellison. Motion carried and the
meeting adjourned at 9:35 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
FEBRUARY 24, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special
Session on Monday, February 24, 2003 at 6:32 p.m. in the Independence Senior
Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Chris Moriconi presiding in the Chair.
Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. The roll was called and the
following council members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim
Ellison, Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Also present was Jed K.
Deters, City Attorney and Mark T. Wendling, City Administrator.
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   Refinancing of the Municipal Center Bond – Ordinance No. 2003-O-02 – Second
Reading
∙   Adopting the Codification of Ordinances – Ordinance No. 2003-O-03 – Second
Reading
∙   Adoption of Resolution No. 2003-R-05 Regarding the Brent Spence Bridge
Ordinance No. 2003-O-02 – Authorizing the Issuance of Municipal Center Project
Refunding Bonds, Series 2003 – 2nd Reading
3.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for second reading of a proposed
ordinance that would authorize the issuance of general obligation public
project refunding bonds, Series 2003 in an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $5,000,000. Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read the ordinance.
Mr. Deters read the ordinance in summary and pointed out that there was a minor
change in the wording; that in fact the current bond lease is with the Kentucky
Municipal Finance Corporation and not Kentucky League of Cities Funding Trust.
He cited case law that supported his opinion that this change in wording was
not sufficient reason to warrant a new first reading of the ordinance.
4.   Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion on this second reading of Ordinance No.
2003-O-02. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member
Bushong. Roll call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-03 – Adopting the Codification of Ordinances 2001 S-
6 Supplement – 2nd Reading
5.   Mayor Moriconi presented for second reading a proposed ordinance enacting
and adopting the 2001 S-6 supplement to the code of ordinances. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance. Council Member Yeager moved, with second by Council
Member Behler to approve the second reading of Ordinance No. 2003-O- 03. Roll
call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0. Mr. Deters advised
the code of ordinances is updated every two years.
Resolution No. 2003-R- 05 – Requesting Federal Funding for the Brent Spence
Bridge Replacement
6.   Mayor Moriconi presented for council’s consideration Resolution No. 2003-
R- 05 urging congress to provide full funding of the TEA-21 reauthorization and
funding for the Brent Spence Bridge replacement. He read the resolution and
requested a motion for adoption. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. A brief discussion ensued wherein Council Member
Ellison commented that the language of the resolution contained generic
literature and he made suggestions to provide more personalization. Mayor
Moriconi stated that a draft resolution was supplied to the cities by way of
Bill Goetz, City Administrator of Ft. Mitchell. Mr. Wendling commented that the
resolution probably originated from OKI (Ohio-Kentucky-Indiana Regional
Council). Council Member Bushong moved to amend his motion to insert the
language suggested by Council Member Ellison, with Council Member Franzen
agreeing to amend her second. Council Member Bushong asked how the Brent Spence
Bridge project would be funded if the federal government does not agree to
provide the funding. Mr. Wendling commented that the responsibility might fall
on the local cities, although most do not have the adequate resources to fund
this sizeable project. At this time roll call was taken to adopt Resolution No.
2003-R-05 and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
7.   Upon motion by Council Member Ellison and second by Council Member Ketron
the meeting was adjourned at 6:45 p.m.
_______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MARCH 3, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
March 3, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with
Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant of Grace Community
Church gave the invocation. Mayor Moriconi congratulated Reverend Bryant on the
one-year anniversary of the establishment of the Grace Community Church in the
city. The roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters and City Administrator,
Mark T. Wendling.
Presentation of Business Award
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated he would like to initiate a new tradition by
recognizing the local businesses in Independence and has chosen Nick’s Grove
Restaurant as the first recipient of this tribute. He advised that he and the
council members would take turns designating a recipient of the business award
on a monthly basis to be presented at the first meeting of each month. Mayor
Moriconi introduced Becky and Vito Casullo, who are the proprietors of Nick’s
Grove, and presented them with a plaque in recognition of their civic and
economic contributions to Independence. Mr. Casullo said that Nick’s Grove
Restaurant has been a presence in the city since it’s opening fifty-seven years
ago by his father. He thanked Mayor Moriconi and council by saying that he was
honored to be the first business to receive this recognition and advised the
plaque would be proudly displayed in the restaurant.
Approval of the Minutes of the February 3, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February
3, 2003 regular meeting of council. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second from Council Member Ketron. No amendments were noted and roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the February 24, 2003 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February
24, 2003 special meeting of council. Council Member Bushong moved, with second
from Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted and roll call was
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the February 24, 2003 Caucus Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February
24, 2003 caucus meeting of council. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second from Council Member Franzen. City Attorney, Jed Deters, noted a
necessary correction in the last paragraph on page one. The amendment was noted
and roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
6.   Mayor Moriconi advised no one signed in to address council and moved on to
the business on the agenda
Resolution No. 2003-R-06 – Adoption of the Development Plan for Memorial Park
by Robert Ehmet Hayes Architects
7.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for consideration, Resolution No.
2003-R-06 that would adopt a master development plan for Memorial Park as
designed by Robert Ehmet Hayes & Associates and would enable the city to
develop individual aspects of the park as funds become available. Mr. Deters
read the resolution.
8.   Council Member Bushong moved, with second by Council Member Franzen to
adopt Resolution No. 2003-R-06. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member
Behler asked if this plan has been revised to include cost estimates for
landscaping in the park. Mr. Hayes stated that a $150,000 allowance has been
included in this Master Plan for landscaping expenses that could be phased in
as the various sections of the park are developed. He suggested that creative
solutions be applied with an emphasis on maintaining the natural landscape.
Council Member Bushong asked how the city’s current Memorial Tree Program would
work into the landscaping; would the trees be planted only in certain areas of
the park or throughout. Mr. Hayes stated that nothing is firm at this time, but
suggested it may be practical to identify key features of the park by
determining a landscaping design.
9.   There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi requested the clerk call
the roll. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2003-R-07 – Authorizing a Contract With Robert Ehmet Hayes &
Associates for the Design of the Proposed Amphitheater & Restroom Facilities of
the Memorial Park Master Plan
10.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for consideration, Resolution No.
2003-R-07 that would authorize him to enter into a contract with Robert Ehmet
Hayes & Associates for design services of the platform aspect of the
amphitheater and restroom facilities for Memorial Park. Mr. Deters read the
resolution.
11.   Council Member Yeager moved, with second by Council Member Behler to
adopt Resolution No. 2003-R-07. A lengthy discussion ensued regarding the
facilities that could be constructed with the existing funds that have been set
aside for the project. Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Hayes if he was able to
design a smaller restroom facility as discussed at the caucus meeting that
would fit into the city’s budget for this first phase of development in
Memorial Park. Mr. Hayes responded that he is conscience of the fact that the
city does not want to experience overruns on this project and has spoken to
local contractors to get a sense of current cost estimates. He recommended the
city take each fixture and scale it down to meet the budget allowance or place
focus on building each facility independently with minimal amenities, such as
landscaping around that facility. Council Member Bushong asked about building
the restroom feature on the rear of the amphitheater. Mr. Hayes advised that
that feature of the amphitheater would be costly as restrooms in that area of
the park would require a lift station over the hill. Mayor Moriconi commented
than an effort should be made to get the cost of restrooms down to about
$30,000. Mr. Hayes advised that a simple cement block structure, without
landscaping, would cost a minimum $40,000-$50,000.
12.   Council Member Yeager and Mr. Wendling discussed the current funds the
city has set aside for the construction of the amphitheater. Council Member
Yeager advised that the $200,000 granted to the city from the state has to be
used for the exclusive purpose of constructing an amphitheater. Council Member
Franzen commented that she would love to see an amphitheater built, but it
needs to be completed with restrooms. Council Member Yeager commented that the
funds for this project are not tax dollars, but donations that are designated
for the construction of the amphitheater, not restrooms. Council Member Bushong
stated he supports the construction of restrooms in the park, but also feels
the need for the amphitheater. He asked Mr. Hayes what it would cost to build a
small serviceable restroom facility near the amphitheater site. Mr. Hayes
stated he would have to take time to reassess that notion of a freestanding
restroom facility in the area.
13.   Mr. Wendling advised that the city received the $200,000 state grant
about three years ago and received a two-year extension last year that will
expire in June 2004. Mr. Hayes suggested that the amphitheater be downsized to
keep the building cost around $150,000. Council Member Yeager commented that
she would prefer not to build it at all, if a cheaper version of the design
plan is all the city can afford. Council Member Franzen suggested building just
the amphitheater and consider restrooms later. Mayor Moriconi commented the
city should proceed with the amphitheater, as the grant money has to be spent
by June 2004. Mr. Hayes suggested that both structures could be scaled back to
meet the budget constraints. Council Member Ellison voiced his objection to
scaling back on the amphitheater. He stated that the state grant of $200,000
was designated for the amphitheater and felt that the state may be critical of
a city that requests more funds than will be used for a specific project.
Council Member Behler suggested seeking additional funds, such as grants and/or
donations, or selling the naming rights of the amphitheater, to obtain the
extra revenue needed to develop this phase of the park so that downsizing would
not be necessary. Mr. Hayes suggested proceeding with the amphitheater as
designed and review other options for restrooms. Mayor Moriconi commented that
some citizens have come forward in the past with an interest in contributing
their labor to construct restrooms in the park, with the city just paying for
the cost of materials.
14.   Mr. Deters advised that the discussion has not resulted in any amendments
that would be necessary to the resolution as read. Mayor Moriconi requested the
clerk call the roll. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Budget Amendment
15.   Mayor Moriconi advised that he has decided to postpone a budget amendment
until all expenses for the snow removal have come to an end. He will present an
amended budget for the current fiscal year at a later date.
Random Drug Testing for City Employees
16.   Mayor Moriconi stated that at the last caucus meeting he mentioned that
one of his goals would be to establish a random drug-testing program for city
employees and has since learned there may be some legal issues with this type
of policy. Mr. Deters advised that random drug testing is legal and could be
implemented if accomplished pursuant to Kentucky Statute. Mayor Moriconi asked
the Chief of Police, Shawn Butler, to speak on this matter. Chief Butler stated
that currently his officers are only drug tested as part of the hiring process.
He stated that last year the city set up an EAP (Employee Assistance Program)
through St. Elizabeth Medical Center. He stated he would review options, such
as where the testing would take place and the costs associated with this type
of program. He stated he feels it is time to implement such a policy and the
goal would be to develop one that is legally defensible. Chief Butler stated he
would collect some information to present at the April or May council caucus
meeting.
City Administrator Report – Mark T. Wendling
17.   Mr. Wendling advised that the next meeting of the Municipal Government
League of Northern Kentucky would be held at the City of Wilder offices.
18.   He also reported that due to the inclement weather this winter, snow/ice
removal expenses have well exceeded the $30,000 that was budgeted.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
19.   Mayor Moriconi advised of appointments to be made to the Board of
Adjustments as well as the appointment of a citation officer for the city, and
presented Executive Orders for council’s endorsement.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-05 – Appointing Margaret Anne (Annie) Wuestefeld as
Citation Officer
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2003-EO-05 repealing the designation of
Mark Wendling, Rich McAllister, Jeff Smith, Kevin Barbian and Diane Collins as
appointed citation officers pursuant to KRS 83A.130(7) and appointing Annie
Wuestefeld as the sole Citation Officer for Independence. Council Member
Franzen moved, with a second by Council Member Ellison to approve this
appointment. Council Member Bushong asked why only one person would be the
designated citation officer. Mr. Wendling explained that in consulting with Mr.
Deters it was discovered that because the above-mentioned people have not
received training necessary of citation officers that any citation issued by
those persons would not be upheld in a court of law. Mr. Deters stated that the
appointment of a citation officer should be based on their qualifications. Roll
call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-06 – Re-Appointing Tom Jump to the Board of
Adjustments
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2003-EO-06 re-appointing Tom Jump to
the Board of Adjustments for a four-year term that would expire on March 14,
2007. Council Member Ellison moved, with second by Council Member Bushong to
approve this appointment. Council Member Ellison expressed gratitude for the
many years of service Mr. Jump has devoted to the city as a member of this
Board. Mr. Deters commented that Mr. Jump does an excellent job on the Board.
Roll was called; motion carried unanimously.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-07 – Re-Appointing Scott Holten to the Board of
Adjustments
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2003-EO-07 re-appointing Scott Holten
to a four-year term on the Board of Adjustments that would expire on March 14,
2007. Council Member Ellison moved, with second by Council Member Yeager to
approve this appointment. Council Member Ellison also expressed gratitude to
Mr. Holten for his years of dedicated service to this Board. Roll call was
answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Miscellaneous Comments
20.   Council Member Franzen asked if there was any development on the
possibility of changing the title of the Recreation Director as discussed at
the last caucus meeting. Mr. Deters stated that matter is being reviewed.
Adjournment
21.   There being no further business, Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to
adjourn. Council Member Ellison so moved, with second by Council Member Ketron.
Motion carried unanimously and the meeting adjourned at 8:52 p.m.
_______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
______________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MARCH 29, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
SPECIAL BUDGET SUMMIT
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special Session
on Saturday, March 29, 2003 at 9:00 a.m. in the Independence Senior Citizens
and Community Center with Mayor Chris Moriconi presiding in the Chair. Mayor
Moriconi promptly called the meeting to order. The following council members
were present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol Franzen, and
Donna Yeager. Council Member Otis Ketron was absent. Also present was City
Administrator, Mark T. Wendling and City Clerk, Patricia Taney. Mayor Moriconi
stated that the purpose of this special meeting was to review and discuss a
preliminary draft budget for the 2003/04 fiscal year. He stated that each
department head would present for council’s consideration a departmental budget
proposal, with explanations for special requests that would help them in
performing their jobs more effectively. Mayor Moriconi stated that this process
is an effort to keep everyone involved and informed along the way to adopting
the budget in June.
Mayor Moriconi advised that some increases in the draft budget couldn’t be
predicted, such as the 20% increase in the health insurance for employees. He
also advised that the current budget was adopted with the assumption that
implementing another tax, such as a road tax or insurance preminum tax, would
raise $200,000 in revenue. He advised that no additional tax was adopted as
assumed. Mayor Moriconi pointed to the Building Fund allocation was decreased
from $400,000 to $270,000 per year due to the re-financing of that loan. He
also advised that another expense that could not be foreseen was the increase
in the snow and ice removal from $30,000 to around $100,000 due to the severe
winter conditions.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that the budget process would be to have a first
reading of the ordinance at the May 5th business meeting with the second
reading and adoption of the ordinance at the June 2nd council meeting. In
closing he reiterated that this budget proposal is preliminary and wanted
everyone to have adequate time to review and discuss before voting for adoption
in June.
Police Department – Chief, Shawn Butler
Police Chief, Shawn Butler presented his budget proposal and pointed out the
following highlights –
∙   Total proposed budget $2,394,936.50 – Reflecting an 11.6% increase over
last year’s budget
∙   Employee salary - Increases – majority would receive only a 2.4% consumer
price index (CPI) increase. $212,693 of the salaries line item is funded by
outside sources
∙   School Resource Officers (SRO) – this budget will reflect the first full
year for these salaries
∙   2 Additional Police Officers – Maximum salary of $72,600 for two mid-level
officers. The salary is based on years of service as a police officer. He
stated that the last time the police department had an increase in staff was
1998. He stated the department has experienced a 127% increase in calls for
service and that the population has grown by 25%. He stated that resident
growth has the highest demand for police service. In addition, the city has
recently annexed over 500 acres of land that will be residential development.
Have not asked for additional officers before now, as the need for equipment,
especially a new fleet of cruisers, took priority. Equipment concerns has been
overcome and now feels the need to move forward with additional staff.
∙   Pointed out that volunteer service has increased and the department has
established cooperative efforts with the Kenton County Police to further
develop community programs.
∙   National police staffing levels is recommended at 2.6 officers for every
1000 residents. He recommends 1.9-2.0 per 1000 residents, as he is cognizant
there are revenue issues. Still, the city needs to look to the future.
∙   Salary raises should be 3% in salary scale steps.
∙   Health, Workers Compensation and property insurance premiums are uncertain
at this time. He expects that the price of gasoline may increase also, but this
too will be an uncontrollable expense Overtime pay for the city’s Special
Events have been a drain on the budget.
∙   Police Cruisers – this line item will be drastically reduced next year as
the leased and older fleet has been aggressively replaced with new cars and now
he will recommend that a rotation system be implemented to keep the fleet up-
to-date.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the proposed amount of wages for the request of two new
officers included the cost of two cruisers. Chief Butler stated that it did not
include vehicles, but felt he would only need to purchase one vehicle as he has
a spare older vehicle that could be used for a second new officer. Council
Member Bushong asked if the health insurance increase of 20% was definite. Mr.
Wendling replied that the city has received the renewal quote, which is 20%.
Council Member Behler asked if the two new hires that Chief Butler is
requesting would be School Resource Officers. Chief Butler said no, that the
SRO positions were funded by a state grant for the next three years. Council
Member Behler asked why Chief Butler wanted to hire mid-level officers versus
rookies. Chief Butler explained that hiring experienced officers provides an
immediate impact as they can be released onto the street sooner, after fifteen
weeks of field training. He stated that a recruit would have to be trained as a
police officer, which has associated costs for the city, then go through field
training, making it nearly one year before the city realizes a benefit from
that hire. Council Member Yeager asked how many police officers the city
currently has. Chief Butler stated he has twenty-three patrol officers and two
school resource officers for a total of twenty-five. He stated that school
resource officer Scott Paul will do patrol duty for a few weeks in the summer,
but not enough to make up the difference. Mayor Moriconi asked about the
cruiser lease payment that is proposed as $145,388.00. He asked how much this
would level off. Chief Butler replied that the following year there would be a
drastic reduction in this line item, by $72,000, and then future years the
amount should stay close to $65,000 annually. Mr. Wendling asked how many
cruisers would be replaced each year. Chief Butler replied that the plan is to
keep each vehicle seven years, with three vehicles replacement each year, but
that is dependent on staffing levels. Mayor Moriconi asked about property
insurance and if the proposed expense would change with the move to a new
building or was the budgeted amount for personal property that the department
currently has. Mr. Wendling advised that the cost of property insurance is
always divided between the departments and that the amount listed is for
contents of the rented space in the courthouse and auto insurance. He stated
that by dividing the expense between the departments it keeps each division
vigilant and responsible for that department’s personal property.
Senior Citizens and Community Center – Joan Bowling, Director
Senior Director, Joan Bowling presented her budget proposal and pointed out the
following highlights –
∙   Proposed budget is $171,937.00
∙   Rental revenue is currently up by 20% - Gradually this revenue is
increasing each year. She has budgeted this low but thinks it may come in
higher.
∙   Senior Board of Directors have committed to paying $20,000 toward her
salary next year.
∙   Utilities (gas/electric) are proposed at a 6.1% increase due to the cold
winter this year. Telephone expenses will also increase due to the city’s
Recreation Department housing its office at the Senior Center.
∙   Maintenance and Janitorial Services – estimated a 4.2% increase for
maintenance of the building and a 20% increase for the janitorial services. The
janitorial service cleans the building twice per week and provides setup and
breakdown, if needed, for the building rentals.
Mayor Moriconi commented that he will ask the Kenton County Fiscal Court
members to consider providing the Senior/Community Center with continued
financial support, as this Center is used by other county residents living
outside the city limits.
Council Member Franzen asked how the janitorial service charged the city, and
suggested the renters do their own cleanup. Ms. Bowling replied the service
charges by the hour and that each renter is informed they must clean up after
their event or risk losing their security deposit. Council discussed the
building maintenance issue as well as the opening/closing of the building for
every rented event and the option of continuing to hire this service out to a
company or hire personnel to perform these duties.
Ms. Bowling stated, that because of Health Department concerns, locks are
needed on the kitchen doors and that a food service window, that can be locked,
needs to be installed in that open space. She stated that currently renters are
told they are not permitted use of the kitchen, but without locks on the doors,
it is impossible to enforce. Council Member Ellison commented that fire codes
may prohibit the locking of the kitchen doors. Mayor Moriconi noticed that Ms.
Bowling budgeted $2,800.00 for the building expenses and wondered if that would
be enough to purchase a shutter for the food service window. Ms. Bowling stated
yes.
Mr. Wendling commented that a couple things the Senior/Community building is in
need of is an outdoor sign and the installation of cable television connection
lines, which have not been added to this budget proposal. He stated that the
Board has discussed the option of cable versus satellite hookups and have
concluded that the expense of $3,000-$4,000 to run the cable lines will be less
costly in the end as the building will receive free cable access. He stated
that they would investigate the possibility of the cable company absorbing the
expense of installing the cable lines to the building as the conduit has been
run from he building to the street. He advised that the Senior Board has
approved sharing this expense with the city if the cable company will not
install the line free of charge. Council Member Bushong advised that some
television signals can be accessed through telephone cable lines and suggested
that option be investigated.
The Council Members also discussed the significance of retaining membership
with the telecommunications board and consensus was that it might be worthwhile
and more profitable for the city to discontinue being represented by this
group.
Public Works Department – Jeff Smith, Crew Leader
Mr. Smith, Crew Leader for the Public Works Department presented his budget
proposal and pointed out the following highlights –
∙   Increase in salaries – 8% for himself and 6% for the other employee.
∙   Additional Staff – Is requesting one new full time employee at a salary of
$24,000. He stated the reason for a new employee is due to an influx of calls
for service and the increased amount of managerial duties he is faced with
every day. The additional employee could work along side of his current
employee (Ken Hicks) while he is doing paper work, attending meetings, etc. He
stated it is also a safety issue and that many of their tasks require a second
pair of hands. He stated that one of them works alone when the other is on
vacation or away at training, etc.
∙   Equipment – Mr. Smith is requesting an allocation of $29,000 to purchase a
bobcat and trailer. He stated this piece of equipment would have multiple uses,
from street cleaning to asphalt removal and restoration work, as well as work
in the parks. He stated that currently when the city needs this machine that it
is rented at a rate of $250 per day.
Council Member Yeager asked how much was spent this past year on the rental of
this type of equipment. Mr. Smith responded that because of the rental cost,
they did not utilize a bobcat very often. Council Member Franzen asked if the
purchase of a bobcat would save dollars in other areas of the budget. He
replied that the equipment rental line item could be reduced from $7,500 to
$2,000. Mr. Wendling asked what the average life span was for a bobcat. Mr.
Smith replied 15-20 years. Mayor Moriconi asked if Mr. Smith was capable of
performing the routine maintenance of this machinery. He replied that minimal
maintenance would be required. Mayor Moriconi asked what the cost would be for
a trailer to haul the bobcat. Mr. Smith stated that the requested amount of
$29,000 would include a trailer. Council Member Bushong asked about purchasing
a used bobcat. Mr. Smith replied that a used bobcat would cost around $10-
15,000, with an additional $5,000 for the trailer and stated that more
maintenance expense would be involved with a used bobcat. Mr. Smith advised
that the purchase of a bobcat, would realize a savings in other areas of the
budget, with the reduction or elimination of other line item allocations such
as street sweeping.
Mayor Moriconi commented that Mr. Smith is requesting a significant increase in
street repairs line item – from $240,000 to $750,000. Mr. Smith advised there
are currently 228 city maintained streets and that 15 of those are in desperate
need of replacement or partial repair. He stated that past citizen surveys have
concluded that the residents consider the streets to be a priority issue. Mayor
Moriconi stated that this proposed figure does not include Clubhouse Drive. Mr.
Wendling stated that the city engineer has advised that Clubhouse will not
require a sub grade as it has about ten years of life left.
Council Member Franzen asked if a part-time employee would fulfill his need for
additional help. Mr. Smith advised that the department currently has funds
allocated for seasonal help and that this position could be eliminated with a
year round full-time employee. Council Member Yeager suggested a part-time year
round employee that could work 20-25 hours each week. Council Member Behler
asked if the city could save on street repair expenses if the hiring of an
additional full-time employee is approved. Mr. Smith stated that major street
repairs are always contracted out, because it requires more people and large
equipment. He stated that he and Ken currently do some of the sectional street
repairs. He stated he is currently working with the city engineer to finalize a
street repair list. Council Member Bushong asked if it would be ready by the
next meeting. Mr. Wendling advised the city engineer is in the process of
updating the street inventory and he will provide an estimated cost of repairs
and/or replacements. He stated the engineer has suggested the city get on a
rotating basis of concrete repairs one year and asphalt the next, as this will
affect the repair quotes received. He stated that the city engineer has also
determined that the sub grade of some of the streets are in adequate condition
with several years of lifetime remaining. The discussion turned to Fleming
Drive and the need for major repairs. Mr. Smith commented that the city added
50 new streets last year and will probably add another 30 this year. Council
Member Ellison advised that the city should begin a program of sealing the new
streets to prolong the life. He stated that many of the older streets in the
city were not built to today’s specifications. There was a brief discussion
about who pays for the replacement of street lights (bulbs) and street signs.
Council was advised that the electric companies (Owen Electric and Cinergy)
replace street light bulbs and that the street signs are installed by the city.
Recreation Department – Nita Brake, Recreation Director
Ms. Brake presented her budget proposal for the 2003/04 fiscal year and pointed
out the following highlights –
∙   Proposed Salary Increase 33% - from $26,372 to $35,000. She stated she was
hired on as a part-time employee in 1998 at $13,000 and is only making $26,000
now, four years later. She stated that the average salary for her position, as
determined by the NKADD salary survey, is $36,378.
∙   Estimated increases for retirement and insurances (medical, workers comp,
etc.)
∙   Deleted seasonal employee – She stated she has used Kenton County inmates
this past year, but has been unable to obtain this help for the last few weeks,
so she now has a seasonal employee for this spring/summer.
∙   Added new line items – for the fuel and maintenance of the old cruiser that
is being used.
∙   Safety Surface for the parks – this would be to add new surface on top the
existing surface - $3,500
∙   New park in the Glenhurst Subdivision will probably require lawn
maintenance – but did not propose an amount in this budget.
∙   Special Events – increased this line item from $18,700 to $20,000. Will
attempt to get sponsorship of some of the events
∙   Seasonal Decorations – street banners for the Cherokee and Beechgrove
areas.
∙   Restroom Facilities in Memorial Park – proposed budget of $50,000
∙   Equipment purchase – Lawn Mowers $20,000 and Trailer $3,000. Would like to
purchase two large riding mowers and gas powered weedeaters. She stated the
city could discontinue contracting out lawn maintenance each year if these
items were purchased and the city hired part time help to cut the grass. She
stated that the city could hire local college students from March through
November to perform this labor.
Council Member Ellison asked if the fireworks expense has increased each year.
Ms. Brake responded that last year was the first increase since the inception
of this event. She stated that this year’s July 4th Celebration will include a
live broadcast on channel 106.5 playing music along with the fireworks.
Mayor Moriconi asked how she arrived at the $50,000 estimate for the restroom
facility in Memorial Park. She replied that the estimate was based on a smaller
building constructed of concrete block, which will also be low maintenance.
Council Member Bushong asked if this was based on the assumption that a water
line is already in place. Mayor Moriconi replied yes.
Mayor Moriconi questioned the need for lawn mowers and a trailer. Ms. Brake
replied that other cities do not contract out for lawn maintenance. She stated
that the lawn maintenance expense increases each year. She stated that the city
could hire seasonal help to do this work and it would be less expensive.
Council Member Behler asked if Recreation is requesting equipment for tasks
that should be performed by the Public Works Department. Ms. Brake stated that
other cities separate parks and public works responsibilities. Mr. Wendling
advised that the Public Works employees do assist Ms. Brake with various tasks
such as mulching and/or hanging the street banners.
Ms. Brake advised that she did not make budget allocations for some of the
parks. She stated that the newly acquired park in the Glenhurst Subdivision may
need lawn maintenance, but that the developer has not installed any park
equipment as agreed upon. Mr. Wendling stated the city would meet with the
developer to determine the equipment and/or facilities that they will install.
Administration Department – Patricia Taney, City Clerk
Ms. Taney presented a proposal budget for the 2003/04 fiscal year and pointed
out the following highlights –
∙   Salary adjustments for the Deputy Clerk and the Secretary positions. Ms.
Taney explained that these positions are 12-15% below average compared to other
local cities that have these positions on staff. She requested these positions
salaries be raised to other comparable wages.
∙   Other related personnel expenses – Ms. Taney noted these are expenses the
city has little control over. She stated that the state retirement program will
increase by 1% and the workers compensation premium for office employees will
increase by .03 cents.
∙   Medical Insurance – Have received a renewal quote of 20.56% increase for
all city employees (not just administration). Reported that the she and Mr.
Wendling will meet with the city’s insurance agent to review quotes that have
been proposed by other companies. Do not anticipate that these quotes will be
much lower that the renewal rate of 20.56%, but wanted council to know that the
city is shopping for the best possible insurance price without losing benefits.
∙   Utilities for the building – actual increase is unknown - guesstimated a
15% increase.
∙   Dues/Fees/Subscriptions – proposed a 15% increase, based on actual to date.
∙   PVA assessments – estimated an 8% increase (high) do not expect that much
∙   No other line items were increased. No requests for equipment this year,
will hold off until the offices are settled in the new Municipal Center.
Mr. Wendling commented that the line item for the city attorney reflects a
significant increase due to the on-going legal fees for the lawsuit for which
Lawson Walker is handling for the city. He also commented that the auto lease
for his car will reflect a 29% increase to make the second payment on a three
year loan to purchase the car.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the budget proposal does not reflect two months
of new expenses associated with the move into the new Municipal Center.
General Discussion on Expenditures and Department Budget Requests
Mayor Moriconi informed council that he recently met with a consultant who acts
as a lobbyist for various entities. He suggested it might be worthwhile for the
city to hire a lobbyist that could be a voice for Independence down state to
obtain funding for sidewalks, roads, etc. He asked council to consider
contracting with this lobbyist as an option to raising revenues; the cost of
the lobbyist would be about $10-$15,000 per year. Council Member Behler asked
what other businesses he represented. Mayor Moriconi replied that he worked for
non-profit, government and private businesses and named the City of Florence,
Tri-Ed and the Chamber of Commerce as a few of his clients. Mayor Moriconi
stated he would invite him to a caucus meeting so that he could explain his
services to council.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that if all department requests were approved
that the city’s reserve fund would be reduced to about $700,000 from the
current $1,500,000. Mr. Wendling informed council that the salaries in the
Mayor’s proposed budget only reflects a 2.4% cost of living increase and does
not reflect the department requests.
Council Member Bushong questioned the revenue shortfall of $200,000 in the
current budget. Mr. Wendling stationed that an amended budget would be
presented for council to adopt at the April or May meeting. Finance Director,
Janet Rebman advised that because the city experienced unbudgeted corresponding
income, ultimately there was not a significant shortfall.
Mayor Moriconi commented that he is hesitant to approve a budget that will
reduce the reserve fund so dramatically. Council Member Ellison commented that
the city might want to consider a hiring freeze. Council Member Franzen stated
that she feels council needs to approve at least one new police officer.
Council Member Ellison replied the he felt the city needed to get some current
salaries up to par before hiring additional staff. He voiced skepticism with
the salary survey conducted by the NKADD.
Council Member Franzen agreed that the employees in the Administration
Department should be brought up to comparable levels. She also stated she would
agree to a used bobcat for the Public Works Department. Council Member Bushong
questioned the possibility of consolidating some public services with Kenton
County, as well as Parks services. Mayor Moriconi stated he has recently
learned that Kenton County Public Works also subs out lawn maintenance
Council Member Behler suggested that police services could also be consolidated
with county. Council Member Ellison commented that Boone County recently
consolidated policing services. Mayor Moriconi stated that consolidating public
works services versus police services was like comparing apples to oranges.
Council Member Bushong commented that the city is too large to consider
consolidating police services. Council Member Ellison stated that he felt the
city could have contracted for snow removal services with someone other than
the county at a much cheaper rate.
Mayor Moriconi stated that the Police Department has not added a new officer in
five years. Council Member Behler responded that other departments have not
added staff either. Mr. Wendling commented that the Public Works department is
facing safety concerns by lacking the adequate staff to complete certain tasks.
Council Member Yeager asked if the crew leader performed tasks also. Mr.
Wendling replied yes, as well as managerial duties, but another person is
needed to assist the laborer when the crew leader is handling managerial
business. He advised that many of their tasks require two sets of hands.
Council Member Ellison stated he is not opposed to expanding the Public Works
Department but in light of the fact that the department does not have a
permanent facility to work out of he does not feel that expansion is reasonable
now. He stated he also does not want to get in a position that would
necessitate job layoffs. Council Member Franzen commented that the city has a
lot going on and cannot afford to initiate a hiring freeze. Mayor Moriconi
stated that this proposed budget includes the addition of two new police hires
and an additional $500,000 of road repair expenses. Council Member Ellison
asked Ms. Rebman to point out the areas of the budget that were excessive. Ms.
Rebman responded by saying each department knows the areas of their budget that
could be cut and suggested that each department be responsible for reducing
their budget to an established amount.
Discussion on Revenue Enhancement
Ms. Rebman advised council that the reserve fund will be down to zero unless
the revenues are increased or expenditures are decreased. Mayor Moriconi
informed council that information regarding the insurance premium tax was
inserted in their packet. Mr. Wendling gave a brief synopsis of this tax. He
stated that essentially this tax is an occupational license fee on insurance
companies and that all types of insurance premiums can be taxed. He discouraged
taxing life and health insurance premiums. He stated that the city could impose
a rate between 5% and 12%. He stated this tax could generate a minimum of
$600,000 revenue for the city. Mr. Wendling advised that the only other major
city in Northern Kentucky, besides Independence, that has a population over
5,000 that has not imposed this tax is Edgewood. He stated that Edgewood has
not found it necessary to impose the insurance premium tax as it receives a
high rate of occupational tax from the hospital that is located in their city.
Mayor Moriconi advised that a rate of 8% for insurance premium tax would
generate $1,000,000 – 5% would generate $600,000. Ms. Rebman advised that the
necessary documents would have to be filed with the state 100 days prior to the
end of the fiscal year in order to be effective by July 1, 2003 and it is
probably too late to meet that deadline this year.
Ms. Rebman also advised that this proposed budget assumes that the city will
adopt a compensating rate plus 4% property tax rate. Mr. Wendling advised that
anything over 4% would be subject to referendum. He stated that council could
also consider increasing the occupational payroll tax rate. It is currently set
at 1.25%. He advised that an increase in this tax could have an impact on
economic development.
Council Member Behler asked how Independence’s property tax compares with other
cities. Mayor Moriconi stated that Covington and Erlanger property tax rates
are the highest. Council Member Ellison stated that cities that have their own
fire departments tend to have a higher rate in order to support an additional
public safety department.
Council Member Bushong recognized that the city might have to look at revenue
options Council Member Behler agreed and voiced concern about how the city was
going to address infrastructure issues without some revenue enhancement. Mayor
Moriconi commented that the two concerns that residents have are police
protection and road maintenance. Council Member Franzen commented on the need
to bring some salaries up to comparable levels. She also expressed concern that
the city cannot continue to operate statuesque. Council Member Bushong voiced
his concerns about exercising a band-aid approach to fix big problems. Mayor
Moriconi advised that the intent of today’s meeting was to inform everyone of
the current state of affairs.
Mr. Wendling advised of the need to stay on top of the street maintenance. He
stated that funds spent on the streets in the Industrial Park area is money
well spent, as this area is a large revenue center for the city. Council Member
Bushong suggested the city might want to consider assessing the businesses in
the industrial park for street improvements. Mr. Wendling commented that Holten
Drive was not constructed to withstand the weight of the semi tractors that
travel that road.
Council Member Franzen commented that the council needs anticipate the city’s
future needs. Council Member Behler agreed that, as a growing community, an
increase in taxes is part of that growth.. Mr. Wendling advised that the city
will need to take control of a zoning plan for the city and recommended that a
comprehensive plan be developed. He stated that it would cost about $50,000,
which is not in this proposed budget, to get that accomplished, but he feels
the city needs to be very aggressive in this endeavor. Council Member Ellison
suggested imposing impact fees on developers. Mr. Wendling advised that
Homebuilders Association would probably declare opposition on that type of fee.
Council Member Bushong stated that he measures the wants and needs of the
public based on the calls he receives, 99% of which are regarding street
maintenance and police safety issues. Council Member Franzen stated that she is
receiving public input that does not necessarily oppose an increase in taxes as
long as in exchange there is an increase in services. Council Member Behler
stated that she feels that part of a safety concern is roads that are
maintained in good condition.
Mayor Moriconi voiced the possibility of exempting senior citizens over the age
of 65 if the insurance premium tax is adopted. There was general discussion
regarding this exemption, but Mr. Wendling advised it would be difficult to
accomplish for various reasons. Council Member Bushong suggested adding an ad
valorum road tax to the general election ballot. Mr. Wendling advised the city
had a first reading on a proposed ordinance for a road tax two years ago, but
then it was dropped. Mr. Wendling advised that there are other taxes that
council could consider, such as a Senior and/or Recreational tax to support
those programs, but like the road tax, they are also subject to referendum.
Council Member Bushong suggested the need to educate and market the need for
increased revenues. Council Member Yeager stated that Campbell County has an
“old age tax” that completely supports their Senior Center. Council Member
Bushong stated that he would not object to an insurance premium tax as long as
life and health insurances were excluded. He suggested that further discussion
of revenue enhancement be included on future meeting agendas. Mayor Moriconi
commented the city needs to raise $350,000 to $400,000 to build up the reserve
fund.
Mayor Moriconi advised that further discussion of the proposed budget would
take place at the next caucus meeting. Council requested that audience
privileges of the floor be given a three minute time limit to voice their
concern or request of council.
Adjournment
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi adjourned the meeting at 12:
38 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
               Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 7, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
April 7, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with
Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Lisa May of Staffordsburg United
Methodist Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Jim Bushong, Donna Yeager, Mary Pat Behler, Carol
Franzen and Jim Ellison. Also present was City Attorney, Jed Deters and Mark
Wendling, City Administrator. Council Member Ketron was absent.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated the first item of business is the recognition of our
local businesses, which is a tradition the city started last month. The Mayor
stated Council Member Behler selected Robinson’s Meats located on Taylor Mill
Road. The Mayor presented Jason and Chris Robinson with a plaque of
recognition. Jason Robinson thanked the city and gave a brief description of
the food services they have to offer.
Approval of Minutes /March 3, 2003 Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to approve the minutes of the March 3,
2003 Council Meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved with a second by Council
Member Yeager. Amendments were noted and approved. Roll call was answered
unanimously; Motion carried 5-0.
Approval of Minutes/March 17, 2003 Caucus Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to approve the minutes of the March
17, 2003 Caucus Meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by
Council Member Bushong. Amendments were noted and approved. Roll call was
answered unanimously; Motion carried 5-0.
Approval of Minutes/March 29, 2003 Budget Summit Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to approve the minutes of the March
29, 2003 Budget Meeting. Council Member Behler so moved with a second by
Council Member Ellison. Roll call was answered unanimously; Motion carried 5-0.
Privileges of the Floor
6.   Linda Buchanan of 3946 Hunters Green Drive advised Mayor and Council she
has called the police numerous times regarding barking dogs next door. She
stated the police has spoke to her neighbors several times but advised her
there was nothing they can do until two separate complaints are received
according to the city ordinance. She stated as she understands it, the Dog
Warden cannot do anything but send letters but cannot issue any violation.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mrs. Buchanan if she had spoken to her neighbor regarding
the dogs. She stated she and her husband have spoke to the neighbor and the
only result they have gotten was the gentleman ringing their doorbell at 6:00
a.m. and leaving, blowing his horn, bending a post in their back yard and
telling his dog to “sic” her. Mr. Paul Buchanan, father of Mrs. Linda Buchanan
stated he is on the Code Enforcement Board in Boone County and stated they have
a Nuisance Ordinance, which is very effective and maybe the city should look
into something like that. Police Chief Butler stated as long as the Ordinance
the city has at the present is in effect, the police officers hands are tied.
He stated in order for a complaint to be filed in District Court, it would
depend on Gary Edmondson accepting the complaint. He stated two separate
residents would have to file charges before anything could possibly be done.
Council Member Franzen asked if Annie Wuestefeld, our Citation Officer could
site for a problem such as this. Attorney Deters advised she could. He stated
he could re-draft a new ordinance and bring back to the next meeting.
7.   Mrs. JoAnn Cobble of 5257 Madison Pike addressed Mayor and Council
regarding the condition of Madison Pike. She stated Madison Pike has not been
cleaned of debris in two years. She stated she and her husband cleaned up two
wheel barrels of debris including broken curb from in front of their home. She
stated she spoke to employees at the Administration Office and was advised that
Madison Pike was a state maintained highway. She also stated she feels the
streets are over treated during snow removal. She stated her lake is damaged
due to the salting of the streets. She feels it is a waste of money to put so
much salt on the streets, which is affecting our environment. Mayor Moriconi
advised Mrs. Cobble that Madison Pike is not a city maintained street but
maintained by the State, which salts that road during snow removal. He added
that the city does snow removal on city maintained streets. Mayor Moriconi
advised Mrs. Cobble the city will clean up the area in which she was speaking
of. Mr. Wendling advised Mrs. Cobble he would contact the State Highway
Department regarding these matters.
Old Business
8.   Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Robert Cooper with Seasongood and Mayer that
handled the bonding of the new Municipal Center to answer any questions Council
might have regarding the bond rating. Mr. Cooper stated he was asked to come to
recap the debt the city had with Kentucky League of Cities. He stated it is a
tedious process leading up to the sale of this bond issue mainly because the
city has never gone to market. Thanks to Janet Rebman and Mark Wendling, they
put a lot of information together that is required to go to Rating Agencies and
supply the information for an offering document that is sent out to the public.
This being the city’s first time in the market, Rating Agencies has a lot of
questions such as what their philosophies are, what their plans are; what kind
of problems they foresee and how are they going to address them. One of the
issues they recognized was the fact the city was growing and there were
questions about how the city is going to address the growth and infrastructure
the city would need. They were satisfied the city has recognized that and are
aware of what needs to be done to accommodate that growth. Some of the items
that were stated in the report by Moody were the ratings the city receives due
to the city’s growing tax base and above average wealth levels; satisfactory
financial operations and low debt burden. The other issue is they review this
rating every year based on the financials sent to the Rating Agencies. Anytime
something major occurs we must notify the Rating Agency of some event that
happened. They are always watching the rating in seeing how the city performs.
They were extremely impressed with the levels of fund balances. Another issue
is the region the city is located in. The city is located in Kenton County,
which is a double rated county. The rating was an A2 rating which is very good
and should improve over time. The result of the sale of the bonds was a 30-year
amortization with a net interest cost of 4.4%. The interest rates range from 2%
to 4.6% over that 30-year period.
Mayor Moriconi reiterated the city refinanced the New Municipal Center and was
able to get a fixed rate, which will drop the payment to almost half.
New Business
Proposed Ordinance – Regulating Garbage Containers and Curb Placement Times-1st
Reading
9.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a first reading of an ordinance that
would regulate the times for garbage can placement at the curb and return from
the curb and asked City Attorney, Jed Deters to read the Ordinance. Council
Member Bushong noted the word “by” should be added in Section 1 of the
Ordinance. Council Member Bushong asked if this Ordinance addresses the problem
with residents putting out plastic bags with grass clippings and leaves. City
Attorney, Jed Deters stated the contractor has provisions for yard waste. He
stated if Rumpke will pick up plastic bags with yard debris then it is okay.
Council Member Ellison stated the Ordinance allows for the pick up of yard
waste. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated this Ordinance is sort of subordinate
to their regulations and will require that trash be in a container with a
secured lid. Council Member Yeager stated another complaint was the trash
collectors turn the can upside down and any trash that did not get emptied then
gets blown into the street. She asked if this was reported to Rumpke and the
City Clerk advised that Rumpke had been notified. Mayor Moriconi stated this
Ordinance attempts to solve two issues; the times trash cans can be placed at
the curb and back in, and the containers have to have a lid so animals cannot
tear the trash up. Attorney Jed Deters stated he would make the amendment and
bring back to council. Mayor Moriconi stated the second reading would be placed
on the agenda for the next regular council meeting.
Resolution No.2003-R-08-Text Amendment to Zoning Ordinance Re: Churches in NC
Zones
10.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-08 requiring a
text amendment to the Zoning Ordinance relating to churches in Neighborhood
Commercial Zones and asked City Attorney, Jed Deters to read. Mr. Wendling
advised that Area Planning now requires a Resolution by council when applying
for a text amendment. The text amendment supports the zoning ordinance to add
churches, and other buildings for the purpose of religious worship, teaching or
education as a conditional use within the neighborhood commercial (NC) zone.
City Attorney, Jed Deters read Resolution 2003-R-08. Council Member Yeager
moved, with second by Council Member Franzen to approve Resolution 2003-R-08.
Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2003-R-09-Declaring 1.23 Acres As Surplus Property
11.   Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2003-R-09 declaring 1.23 acres
off Oby Drive be declared as surplus property so the city can accept sealed
bids and asked City Attorney, Jed Deters to read. Council Member Ellison moved,
with second by Council Member Yeager to approve Resolution No. 2003-R-09. Roll
call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2003-R-10-Termination of Participation in the Kenton County Dog
Authority
12.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-10 authorizing
the city to terminate its participation with the Kenton County Dog Authority
and support a merger with the Kenton County Animal Shelter and send written
notice no less than 60 days prior to July 1, 2003. Mr. Wendling also advised
that Kenton County Police would be overseeing the department, not the Animal
Shelter as originally thought. City Attorney, Jed Deters read Resolution 2003-
R-10. Council Member Bushong moved, with a second by Council Member Yeager to
approve Resolution No. 2003-R-10. Roll call was answered with four yeas and
Council Member Ellison voting no.
Proposed Resolution - Accepting “The Oaks” Subdivision detention basin for city
Maintenance
13.   Mayor Moriconi presented to a council for consideration a resolution that
would authorize the Mayor to execute documents to transfer ownership of the
detention basin for the development known as “The Oaks” located off Hogreffe
Road in Independence and asked City Attorney, Jed Deters to read. City
Attorney, Jed Deters read the Resolution and recommended that council not to
accept this detention pond due to liability. He stated even though the
Sanitation District has indicated they will take over the responsibility of the
detention pond in the future, there is no guarantee they will. He stated he
does not feel there is an upside to any of this. Council Member Behler stated
she thought one of the reasons the city would take over the detention pond was
because the developer was not caring for it now. City Attorney, Jed Deters
advised council if the city does not take over the detention pond, the
developer would have to assume responsibility unless a Homeowners Association
is formed. Council Member Ellison made a motion to table this issue until the
April Caucus Meeting, with a second by Council Member Behler. Mayor Moriconi
requested the clerk call the roll. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Administrator’s Report – Mark Wendling
14.   Mr.Wendling advised council that the Simon Kenton Project Prom has been
classified as a “safety issue” which will allow the city to make a donation.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to donate $500.00 to Simon Kenton High
School Project Prom with a second by Council Member Franzen. No roll called;
motion carried unanimously.
15.   Mr. Wendling advised council that the city’s Spring Cleanup would be on
April 25th thru April 27th, Friday thru Sunday. He stated large dumpsters would
be placed at Memorial Park for large items, such as couches and old appliances.
He stated items such as refrigerators must have the freon removed and tagged
before they can dispose of. Also paint, batteries, and tires are not
acceptable.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order-2003-EO-08-Appointing Dan Koch to Board of Adjustment
16.   Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to appoint Mr. Dan Koch to fill a
seat on the Board of Adjustments for a four-year term. Council Member Franzen
so moved, with a second by Council Member Bushong. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
17.   Mayor Moriconi advised council that there would be a rally for the troops
in Iraq on Thursday evening at 6:30 p.m. at Memorial Park and asked everyone to
come and show their support.
18.   Mayor Moriconi advised council that Skyline Chili had donated $800.00
toward the Easter Egg Hunt to be held April 13th at 2:00 p.m. at Memorial Park.
Miscellaneous Discussion
19.   Council Member Yeager asked the city clerk approximately how much money
was still owed on delinquent city taxes. City Clerk, Pat Taney stated
approximately $100,000.00 including more than one year of delinquency. Council
Member Yeager asked if there were further steps that could be taken to collect
some of the delinquent taxes. City Clerk, Pat Taney stated delinquent letters
are sent out in January and March after they have become delinquent.
20.   City Attorney, Jed Deters advised Mayor and Council that he could send a
letter including attorney fees would be added if not paid by a certain due
date.
21.   Council Member Ellison moved to have City Attorney, Jed Deters collect on
a contingency basis, delinquent tax bills and add legal fess as required by the
Ordinance with a second by Council Member Yeager. Roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 5-0.
22.   Mayor Moriconi stated if there were no further discussions he entertained
a motion to adjourn. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second by Council
Member Ellison. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 8:10 p.m.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
City of Independence, Kentucky
Attest:
_______________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant City Clerk
_______________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
APRIL 21, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL CAUCUS MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 21,
2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Independence Senior Citizens and Community Center in
Independence with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called
the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. The roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol
Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Council Member Mary Pat Behler was
absent. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters, City Administrator, Mark
T. Wendling and Finance Director, Janet Rebman.
Privileges of the Floor
JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, addressed council with her concerns of a
reported tax increase, especially on insurance. She remarked that she was
prepared to work against any such increases in taxes. She stated that she hoped
that the council would adopt a balanced budget for the coming year and in
closing added that she would like to reserve additional comment after the
Mayor’s presentation of the proposed budget later in this meeting.
Lori Lucas, 1941 Freedom Trail and Toni Moriconi, 1899 Freedom Trail, addressed
council regarding their plans to organize a Stamping and Scrapbook Club for the
purpose of documenting photos of the city’s events. They stated that the club
would operate as a non-profit type organization and would require annual dues
from its members that would be used for the purchase of supplies and materials
needed to create the city scrapbooks. Mrs. Moriconi stated that the Club would
meet once every month and requested permission for complimentary use of a
meeting room in the Senior/Community Center. Mr. Bushong asked if this
organization would become a charter non-profit. Mrs. Moriconi stated that she
would look into it. Council conveyed that they would consider this request for
a complimentary meeting room at the Senior/Community Center at the May 5, 2003
council meeting.
Jeff Jarboe, 5468 Madison Pike and his attorney, David Davidson addressed
council regarding their request for a text amendment to the city’s current
zoning ordinance. They stated that Mr. Jarboe’s property located at 5468
Madison Pike is currently zoned R-1C. He stated that their proposal for a text
amendment would permit a conditional use for buildings in an R-1C zone to be
used as offices that are located in modified residences. He advised that this
modification would affect only a few parcels of property in the city.
City Attorney, Jed Deters, reminded council that the Kenton County Planning
Commission has recently began a requirement by cities that they adopt a
resolution to support a proposed text amendment to the zoning ordinance. Mr.
Deters asked what they mean by a “modified residence”. Mr. Davidson stated a
“modified residence” would describe any residence that was converted to
business offices. He also commented that the Comprehensive Plan does not
provide for commercial or office places. Mr. Deters explained that a
conditional use request would have to be applied for and granted by the city’s
Board of Adjustment. Mr. Davidson stated that if council approves the requested
text amendment then that would be their next step. Mr. Jarboe commented that
his property is essentially condemned, because under the current zoning it
cannot possibly come into compliance. Mr. Davidson stated that the structure is
no longer suitable for a residence as it is in an area that has become
predominantly commercial. He stated Mr. Jarboe’s mother has owned this property
since 1997, but that Mr. Jarboe has been living and working there and pays rent
to his mother. Mr. Deters advised that Mrs. Jarboe would have to be the
applicant for the conditional use request. Council Member Ellison suggested
adding the language “be adjacent to an arterial state highway route” to the
text amendment that Mr. Davidson is proposing. Mr. Davidson agreed to Council
Member Ellison’s suggestion. In closing, Mr. Jarboe stated that there are five
houses in the area of the Independence Towne Center that would be affected by
this text amendment. He stated that he would like to see council limit the
modification of these residences to professional offices.
Mayor Moriconi advised that this matter would be placed on the May 5, 2003
agenda for council to act on this text amendment request. He directed the city
attorney to draft a resolution for council’s consideration.
Discussion of the Detention Pond in “The Oaks” Subdivision
Mayor Moriconi advised that Tony Browne, the developer of The Oaks subdivision
was not present, but has requested that the city take over maintenance of the
detention pond in that subdivision. The Mayor advised that the city’s engineer,
Mark Brueggemann is present to report to council his assessment of this
detention basin.
Mr. Brueggemann advised that the basin was constructed by building a dam across
an existing creek with the existing plant life in the area remaining and
appears to have been constructed as per the approved construction drawings. He
stated this design is going to require more maintenance after substantial
rainfalls in order to remove any debris that will possibly collect and block
the inlet that is a six-inch orifice. Mr. Brueggemann stated that he recommends
the city request a compaction report from the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission to ensure that the dam was compacted properly. He stated that upon
inspection he observed a buildup of silt in front of the inlet to the control
structure and recommended the silt be removed. He stated this buildup is a
result of the design.
Mr. Brueggemann advised council that he recommends the city require the
developer to do the following three things before accepting this detention pond
for maintenance: 1) removal of the silt build up, 2) re-seed the embankment,
and 3) provide a dam compaction report.
Mayor Moriconi expressed his reservations on the city taking over maintenance
of this area. Council Member Franzen advised that the city’s Public Works Crew
Leader, Jeff Smith, videoed the area and presented the tape for possible
viewing by council. She stated she had viewed the video tape and state the area
is very wooded and that Mr. Smith submitted a list of reasons supporting his
recommendation to not accept this basin for maintenance. City Attorney, Mr.
Deters, concurred with Mr. Smith’s assessment of this matter and advised the
city would be assuming a big liability without any benefit. Mr. Wendling
commented that he does not believe the city’s acceptance of the detention basin
was part of the annexation agreement of this property, but he feels the
developer would not have asked to be annexed if the city was not going to agree
to assume maintenance of this basin. Council Member Bushong commented that he
sees no benefits for the city in accepting this area for maintenance. Council
Member Ellison disagreed with Mr. Wendling by stating that he feels Mr. Browne
would have still desired annexation regardless of whether or not the city
agreed to assume the liability for this detention pond. Mr. Brueggemann
commented that he is not aware of any city in Kenton or Campbell County that
have assumed the maintenance responsibilities of detention areas. Council
Member Bushong asked if the Sanitation District would assume this area for
maintenance. Mr. Wendling stated that he spoke to John Lyons of the Sanitation
District who stated they would not take over the maintenance of this area now,
as they are not currently in the storm water retention business. But advised
they would take it over if it is city owned in five years when the Sanitation
District takes over the storm water retention.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Brueggemann for his report and advised this matter
would be placed on the agenda of the May 5, 2003 business meeting for an
official vote to either approve or disapprove the acceptance of this detention
pond for maintenance.
Glenhurst Development – Regarding a Zone Change and Annexation Request – Chuck
Berling
Mayor Moriconi announced that Mr. Berling was not present and would postpone
the discussion of this matter until another time.
Discussion Regarding On-Street Parking in the Forest Run Subdivision
Mayor Moriconi introduced Robert and Ellen Wood, 10737 Bluespruce Lane, who
wrote to him regarding their concerns with the on street parking in the Forest
Run Subdivision. She stated that she feels the residents are using the streets
as parking lots. Mrs. Wood stated that she feels that a potential hazard exists
because the streets are not wide enough to allow two cars to pass each other
when one is going around a parked car. Mr. Deters advised that the subdivision
streets are constructed to meet the specifications of subdivision regulations
in place at the time the subdivision is developed. He also noted that double
car driveways were designed to alleviate on-street parking. Council Member
Franzen commented that when a snow emergency is declared parking on the streets
is prohibited. Mayor Moriconi commented that even then, the on street parking
is difficult to enforce without issuing tickets to every violator. Council
Member Franzen questioned whether covenants would be a solution. Mr. Deters
said that some subdivisions do this, but added that even if council considered
an amendment to the street widths, that it would not help with the current
streets. He stated that many older streets are much narrower than those in
Forest Run. Council Member Ellison suggested imposing a fee to purchase a decal
to permit a vehicle to park on the street as a possible solution. Mrs. Wood
commented that she feels that on-street parking devalues a neighborhood. Mayor
Moriconi directed the city administration to survey other cities to see how
they contend with on-street parking problems.
Presentation by Jeffrey Keener, President of the Northern Kentucky Little
League
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Jeffrey Keener, President of the Northern
Kentucky Little League who was proposing to form a partnership with the city
for exclusive use of Sterling Staggs Park as the home fields for their
organization’s ball games.
Mr. Keener shared with council the dilemma his organization is experiencing
with the increased number of teams and the lack of ball fields in Northern
Kentucky to play on. He stated that the Northern Kentucky Little League
currently has fifty teams in Boone and Kenton County and that Kenton County did
not provide Saturday playing fields or practice fields. He stated that it is
becoming increasingly difficult to find playing fields for the ages of eight
years and younger that meet the Little League requirements. Mr. Keener proposed
that the City of Independence partner with the Northern Kentucky Little League
to solve their problem of supplying ball fields next year, as he estimates
there will be close to one hundred teams. He advised it would be necessary to
convert some of the green space into parking spaces at Sterling Staggs Park.
Council Member Yeager expressed concern that this would eliminate green space.
Mr. Keener stated he would like to work with a city representative to begin the
process of making the necessary accommodations in time for next year, but only
if the city council was going to support this venture. Council Member Franzen
suggested that the city’s Recreation Director, Nita Brake attend the next
caucus meeting to meet with Mr. Keener. Mr. Keener stated he wanted council’s
commitment to his proposal before investing time into a venture that may not
come to fruition. Mayor Moriconi suggested that this might not be worth
pursuing, as the park is landlocked and it seems there may not be the full
support of the city council. In closing, Mayor Moriconi suggested that the
Glenhurst Subdivision area will be adding a park area with a school in the near
future and encouraged Mr. Keener to investigate that as an option. Mr. Deters
suggested the organization acquire and develop property for these purposes. Mr.
Keener commented that the high price of land would prohibit this as a solution
for their organization.
Proposal by Marc Wilson & Associates for Lobbyist Services for the City
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Marc Wilson. Mr. Wilson addressed council
regarding professional services he would like to provide the city as a paid
lobbyist. He stated he is a marketing/communications professional, registered
lobbyist and has worked in various capacities in politics. He stated he would
represent the city’s individual interests and provide protection against
discrimination. He advised he would pursue the political representatives of
this district and lobby for city project funding to alleviate the constraints
on the city budget. Mr. Wilson stated that the value of a paid lobbyist would
exceed the city’s investment for this service. He advised that he is proud of
his accomplishments with the Newport on the Levy development.
Council Member Bushong asked Mr. Wilson if he has been a paid lobbyist for
other cities. Mr. Wilson stated not yet, but has worked with Tri-ED. Mayor
Moriconi commented that Independence is a large city in Northern Kentucky, but
has been overshadowed by the large cities located on the Ohio River. Mr. Wilson
stated that the city should be receiving thirty cents back on every state tax
dollar collected. Council Member Yeager asked Mr. Wilson if he would assist
with state grants. Mr. Wilson stated that he could help track grants that the
city applies for. He also stated that U.S. Senator McConnell could be pursued
for federal funding. Mr. Wendling asked Mr. Wilson how he would handle possible
conflicts of interest with his other clients, like the Apartment Association.
He stated that would be a unique situation and if it would occur he would work
through it. Mayor Moriconi advised he would obtain some firm numbers from Mr.
Wilson and get back to council at a later date.
Discussion of Sunday Liquor Sales Hours
Mayor Moriconi reported that the city has received a request by the Kenton
County Golf Course to consider permitting alcohol sales at 11:00 a.m. rather
than the current onset of 1:00 p.m. He stated the Golf Course is losing
revenue, which has lead to this request. He requested input from council.
Council Member Yeager stated that she has no problem with allowing alcohol
sales to begin at 11:00 a.m. Council Member Ellison concurred that he had no
problem with this request but suggested that sit-down eating establishments
might be included. Council Member Ketron suggested the onset of sales be at
noon instead of 11:00 a.m. Council Member Franzen stated that she is strongly
opposed to granting this request by the Golf Course and felt that the city
should not permit alcohol sales until 1:00 p.m. Mr. Deters stated that whatever
is agreed on should be a citywide regulation. Police Chief Butler commented
that state law prohibits package liquor sales before 1:00 p.m. Council Member
Bushong questioned if the city would charge a fee. Mr. Wendling stated that the
city does not have a liquor license for businesses that sell alcohol and may
want to consider establishing one. Council Member Bushong replied that he would
be interested in knowing what other cities charge for a liquor license. Mr.
Deters advised that state law takes precedence with regard to liquor sales and
he would like to research this law and will present an opinion at the May
meeting.
Update Regarding the City’s Barking Dog Ordinance
Mr. Deters, City Attorney, presented a draft ordinance that would amend the
city’s current ordinance regulating barking dogs for council’s review. Chief
Butler commented that he suggest some amendment to the language in Section II
so that the police officer would have some discretion in issuing a citation. He
also commented that his department does not track warnings that they issue. In
addition, he stated that according to state law, the police officer would have
to actually witness the offense, before a citation could be issued. Chief
Butler commented that sometimes these types of complaints are the result of
petty neighborhood squabbles. Council Member Bushong asked how many dog calls
the police department receives. Chief Butler stated he would have to run a
report to obtain that figure. He commented that dog complaints seem to come in
spurts and that he feels that it is part of the growing pains the city is
experiencing. Mr. Deters stated he would review this draft ordinance with Chief
Butler to make the necessary revisions and submit it at the next caucus meeting
for council’s consideration.
Proposed Ordinance – Regulating Garbage Containers and Curb Placement Times
Council Member Franzen reported that she has received many phone calls from
residents opposing the proposed ordinance regulating garbage containers. (A
first reading of this proposed ordinance was at the April 7, 2003 council
meeting) She stated that the callers mainly object to the prohibition of
plastic trash bags being placed at the curb and being cited for the litter that
results from the torn bags. Mr. Deters stated the city already has a litter
ordinance. Council Member Franzen went on to say she has had 50-60 complaints
and feels this ordinance is redundant. Council Member Yeager stated that she
feels part of the problem exists with the garbage collectors, as they return
the cans on the curb upside down, thereby dislodging any remaining trash onto
the lawn areas. Council Member Franzen stated that additional cans that
residents will have to own to replace the prohibited bags, would only add to
this problem. She expressed concern that Independence, by mandating the
exclusive use of trashcans for curbside garbage disposal, might be viewed as a
socialist community. Council Member Bushong spoke in favor of the use of
trashcans versus bags as neighborhood dogs can be blamed for spreading the
refuse. Council Member Franzen maintained that she felt the ordinance was in
need of language revisions. Council Member Ellison commented that he felt the
ordinance would be used as a tool for enforcement when necessary for persistent
violations. Mayor Moriconi concurred with Council Member Ellison. In closing,
Council Member Franzen commented that the city currently has a leash law that
should be enforced and advised council to expect to be addressed by residents
opposing this proposed ordinance at the next council meeting.
Presentation of the Memorial Park Amphitheater Site Plan
Mayor Moriconi reported that the site plan for the amphitheater is complete and
here for review after the meeting. Mr. Wendling reported that he anticipates
the notice to bidders will be released very soon and that construction of the
amphitheater will begin sometime this summer.
Proposed Resolution of Support for the Northern Kentucky Regional Farmers’
Market
Mayor Moriconi submitted to council for their consideration a proposed
resolution that would support the creation of a regional farmers’ market in
Northern Kentucky. He stated it would be an in-door year round $7,000,000
facility located in downtown Covington. Mayor Moriconi voiced some ambivalence
in supporting this venture as he feels it might detract from local businesses.
Council Member Yeager commented that Independence attempted unsuccessfully a
few years ago to launch a farmers’ market. Discussion died; no one voiced
interest in supporting this resolution.
Discussion of a Proposed Budget for the 2003/04 Fiscal year
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed budget for the 2003/04 fiscal
year that included two options for their consideration. He stated that both
options reflect a balanced budget.
He stated that Option 1 specified the following:
∙   Adoption of a compensating property tax rate
∙   Adding two new police officers
∙   Adding one new Public Works laborer (with the additional duty of in-house
grass cutting)
∙   A 21% salary increase for the Recreation Director
∙   $50,000 improvements to Memorial Park
Mayor Moriconi advised that Option 2 specified the following:
∙   Adoption of a compensating property tax rate plus 4%
∙   Adding one new police officer
Mayor Moriconi advised the both options assumed cost of living salary increases
for the city employees, with the exception of a few that would receive a higher
adjustment. In addition, he stated that Option 1 would assume increased revenue
with the adoption of the insurance premium franchise fee. He advised that
adopting this fee would cost each resident about $80-$100 per year.
Council Member Bushong expressed concern on the Mayor’s Option 1 proposal to
eradicate the city’s entitlement to the additional 4% property tax. Mayor
Moriconi responded that he did not want to have a doublet-hit effect on the
residents. Mr. Deters advised that in the past when the city did not exercise
their option to adopt the compensating tax rate plus the 4%, it has had a
detrimental impact on the city’s budget and makes it difficult to recover from
the lost revenue. Council Member Bushong stated that a couple years ago the
city council made a commitment to get back on track with the 4% option. He
stated the city needs more than the bare bones amount allowed by law and urged
Mayor Moriconi to continue the practice of adopting a tax rate that includes
the 4% allowed by law. Mr. Deters agreed and commented that the plus 4% is an
option that is intended for growing communities like Independence. Council
Member Ellison also concurred that adopting the compensating tax rate plus 4%
was a necessary practice to keep revenues stable. Mayor Moriconi agreed to
include the 4% back into the revenue calculations.
Council Member Bushong questioned adding another employee in the Public Works
Department. Mayor Moriconi stated that he felt the additional person could
possibly be used for grass cutting thereby deleting the expense the city
currently has in contracting out this job.
Council Member Bushong asked Mayor Moriconi how the 21% salary increase was
determined for the Recreation Director. Mayor Moriconi responded that this
position requested a higher increase. Council Member Yeager commented that the
increase was to bring this salary up to a comparable salary for this position.
Council Member Bushong asked if the administration deputy clerks would be
getting the requested salary increases. Council Member Franzen stated the City
Clerk and deputy clerk positions need to be brought up to comparable rates.
Council Member Bushong commented that salary adjustments were approved for the
police department last year and asked what salary range was needed to get the
City Clerk at a comparable wage. Mr. Wendling stated the City Clerk position is
currently being paid $7,000-$10,000 less than comparable cities. Council Member
Bushong stated he would like to have some wage percentages and dollar amounts
to review and consider for a merit raise system. Mayor Moriconi stated that the
police salary adjustments were implemented last year in an effort to reduce
staff turnover. He stated he would look at a way to implement salary
adjustments for the administration department. Council Member Franzen stated
that in order to keep good employees they need to be well compensated.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the city is also committed to the Industrial Road
Improvement Project which will cost the city $75,000 this year. Council Member
Bushong asked when this project would begin. Mr. Wendling commented that the
commencement of this project has been delayed until the fall of 2003.
Mayor Moriconi permitted Mrs. JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, to make
comments to council regarding the presentation of the 2003/04 proposed budget.
Mrs. Cobble commended Council Member Bushong for his question of Mr. Marc
Wilson on what other cities he provides lobbyist services. She stated that Mr.
Wilson’s answer speaks for itself, and commented that the city does not need to
pay for the services of a middleman. She stated that if other cities felt the
need for a lobbyist, they would have engaged him by now.
Mrs. Cobble also commended Chief Butler. She commented that the proposed dog
ordinance needs to be looked at very closely and re-evaluated. She stated that
she could often hear animals in her neighborhood.
Council Member Bushong asked the timeline of adopting the budget. Mr. Wendling
advised the first reading of the ordinance is scheduled for the May 5th meeting
with the second reading and adoption at the June 2nd meeting. Mayor Moriconi
stated he would continue to review the proposed budget over the next two weeks
in preparation for presentation to council at the May 5th meeting. Council
Member Bushong asked if this timeframe would be sufficient if amendments to the
budget were made between the first and second reading. Mr. Deters advised that
if a significant change was made after the first reading it might delay the
schedule. Council Member Yeager stated a special meeting could be held if
necessary. Mayor Moriconi advised there was sufficient time prior to the next
caucus meeting to hold a special meeting if necessary.
Council Member Franzen asked if Option 1 included more than cost of living
(COLA) salary increases. Mr. Wendling stated only a couple of employees would
be given a salary adjustment higher than the cost of living. Mayor Moriconi
reiterated that he would work on making some incremental adjustments to some
administration positions.
Council Member Bushong asked what percentage was used to calculate a revenue
amount for the insurance premium tax. Mr. Wendling stated eight percent was
used and that the calculations were distributed at the Budget Summit held in
March.
Business Recognition
Mayor Moriconi asked Council Member Bushong if he had selected a local business
that he would like to recognize at the May 5th council meeting. Council Member
Bushong stated he would be recognizing Farmers National Bank with the new CEO
Mark Aulick attending the meeting to accept the plaque.
Miscellaneous Item of Discussion – Cluster Mail Boxes
Council Member Ellison commented that he has received a complaint that cluster
mailboxes are being installed in the Clover Ridge Subdivision. He stated the
city adopted an ordinance several years ago prohibiting these types of
mailboxes. Mr. Wendling advised he would look into this.
Adjournment
There being no further business to discuss, Mayor Moriconi adjourned the
meeting at 9:16 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MAY 5, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May
5, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of Independence
Christian Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Ellison, Carol Franzen, Otis
Ketron and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed Deters and Mark
Wendling, City Administrator. Council Member Bushong was absent.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated the first item of business would be the recognition
of Farmers National Bank, which Council Member Bushong has selected as
recipient of the Business of the Month tribute. The Mayor presented Mark
Aulick, President/CEO, with a plaque of recognition. Mr. Aulick thanked Mayor
Moriconi and Council for the opportunity to receive this honor. He remarked
that Farmers National Bank is a well-kept secret in Independence and because
they are a small bank they take pride in providing excellent service to their
customers. Mr. Aulick invited everyone to stop in.
Agenda Revision
3.   Mayor Moriconi advised that he would like to revise tonight’s agenda and
moved the matter of the proposed budget for the 2003/04 fiscal year to the
forefront.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Budget for the Fiscal Year 2003/04 – 1st
Reading
4.   Mayor Moriconi presented for first reading a proposed ordinance adopting a
budget for the 2003/04 fiscal year. Mayor Moriconi advised that this proposed
budget did not include tax increases. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi stated that a second reading of this ordinance would take place
at the June 2, 2003 council meeting.
Approval of the Minutes of the April 7, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the April 7,
2003 regular meeting of council. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second
from Council Member Franzen. Several amendments were noted and approved and
roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the April 21, 2003 Caucus Council Meeting
6.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the April 21,
2003 caucus meeting of council. Council Member Ellison moved, with second from
Council Member Franzen. Several amendments were noted and approved. Roll call
was answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
7.   Mr. Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike requested that he be allowed to reserve
his comments till the end of the meeting. Mayor Moriconi consented to Mr.
Cobble’s request.
8.   Pauline Judd, 11 Apple Drive addressed council regarding her concerns of a
reported tax increase and voiced a strong objection to new taxes. Ms. Judd
advised that she is 83 years old and is struggling on a fixed income to pay for
her necessities; she does not have cable television, etc. She commented that
she does not feel the city needs a new municipal building and accused council
of finding ways to spend the resident’s tax dollars.
9.   JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, presented Mayor Moriconi and Council
with a petition containing over 1,150 signatures of citizens who oppose an
insurance premium tax. She requested that the petition be included as an
attachment to the official council minutes of this meeting. Mrs. Cobble
commented that she was impressed by the tremendous response from the citizens
regarding this matter and stated that the flame of democracy is not completely
extinguished and it shows that democracy can and does work. . She stated that
the senior citizens can be a power force and thanked everyone who participated
in this effort.
10.   On a somber note, Mrs. Cobble expressed how troubled she was to find out
that a Council Member and one of her petition workers had been threatened. She
stated that this behavior goes against the laws of God and State and her intent
was to raise opposition against increased taxation in a peaceful manner. Mrs.
Cobble proclaimed shame on the people guilty of these threats. She asked Mayor
Moriconi to ask for a show of hands from the audience of those opposing any tax
increases. (Mayor Moriconi acceded this request and herein the minutes reflect
that the majority of the audience raised their hand in opposition to increased
taxes. Also this record will reflect that a few hands were raised in support of
increased taxes.) Mrs. Cobble thanked Mayor Moriconi and Council for the
opportunity to speak.
11.   Tom Brinker, 1192 Constitution Drive, stated that he is a regular
attendee of the city council meetings and was amazed that every available seat
was taken tonight due to the talk of a possible tax increase. Mr. Brinker went
on to say that he was in favor of a tax increase and advised that others should
know the facts behind council’s consideration before they voice their
opposition. He stated that the city is growing rapidly and there is a great
need to hire more police officers to ensure the safety of the citizens. He
stated that the last time the city hired a new officer was 1999 and during that
time many new homes have been constructed, which means that more residents have
moved in. Mayor Moriconi advised that an average of 300-400 homes are built
every year. Mr. Brinker directed his comment to the audience attendees by
stating they should attend the council meetings every month to learn the facts,
and not just when there is a threat of new taxes.
12.   Council Member Behler requested that respect be shown to all persons
taking the podium and that attendee’s refrain from expressing disparaging
remarks.
13.   Jim Reusch, 1775 Forest Run Drive, stated that he also is retired but is
concerned that the city can’t expand without additional revenue to support the
police and fire departments.
14.   Michael W. Little, 10897 Gristone Circle in the Shaw Estates Subdivision,
spoke against any proposed tax increase. He stated that any tax increase should
be put on the general election ballot. He stated he was against the way the
city tried to pass the proposed insurance premium tax. He stated that some
people live paycheck to paycheck and that the influx of new homes being
constructed should be producing adequate tax dollars for the city to operate.
15.   Council Member Franzen explained that the initial discussion of the
possibility of implementing an insurance premium tax was at the Budget Summit
held in March. She stated that if council had decided to proceed with such a
tax that it would have been publicized. She stated assuredly that there was
never any intent by the Council to try to implement this kind of tax in an
underhanded manner. She also advised that at the Budget Summit meeting in
March, Council Member Bushong proposed that the city schedule special town hall
meetings to give the residents an opportunity to voice their opinions on this
tax. Mayor Moriconi commented that no residents attended the Budget Summit that
was held in March.
16.   Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, voiced his opposition to an insurance
premium tax, as it will hurt the elderly residents as well as those on a fixed
income. He stated when this matter was brought up last March that he called
some of the council members and found that most opposed this tax. He commented
that he felt that the payroll tax should be increased if additional revenue was
needed by the city, as the people who have jobs can afford to pay taxes.
17.   Jeanne Cooper, 14816 Decoursey, stated that she was here to speak on
behalf of Mr. Jeff Jarboe’s request to obtain a conditional use for his
accounting/tax service business in a residential zone. She commented that Mr.
Jarboe is an excellent financial planner and tax consultant and is a good
business for the city.
18.   Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, stated that he opposed the insurance
premium tax. He stated there should be other means to raise additional revenue
without putting a tax on insurance policies. He suggested to those in favor of
the city implementing this kind of tax, that they should make a voluntary
donation to the city. He went on to say that he has lived in the city for
thirty-two years and has yet to see the streets swept. He stated that the
deteriorating condition of the curbs and sidewalks in the city is a disgrace.
Mr. Cobble commented the city should get funds from state/federal grants to
make the necessary repairs without taxing the people. Mayor Moriconi advised
that the streets were swept two weeks ago. Mr. Cobble replied that the streets
were not swept in front of his house. Mr. Wendling disputed this comment and
advised the city rented a bobcat and swept the downtown area along Madison
Pike, even though the maintenance of this stretch of highway is the
responsibility of the State Highway Department. He stated that the
disintegrating condition of the curb is making it difficult to keep up. Mayor
Moriconi advised Mr. Cobble that the city is working on obtaining grants to
replace and install sidewalks along Madison Pike. In addition, Mayor Moriconi
has written to this district’s state representatives to enlist their assistance
in obtaining state and federal funds. Mayor Moriconi agreed that the curbs are
a mess, but advised that it may take an increase in taxes to help pay for those
kind of repairs.
End of Privileges of the Floor
Ordinance No. 2003-O-04 Regulating Garbage Can Containers and Curb Placement
Times – 2nd Reading
19.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2003-O-04 regulating the times for garbage can placement at the curb and their
return from the curb, requiring garbage containers to have secured lids during
such times and setting a penalty for violations of this ordinance. He stated
this ordinance was discussed once more at the April caucus meeting.
20.   Council Member Ellison moved, with second by Council Member Behler to
approve a second reading in summary only. Council Member Franzen stated that it
was discussed at the caucus meeting that the city already has a litter
ordinance in effect that should address the concerns that prompted this
ordinance. She stated that she felt this was unnecessary legislation. Council
Members Yeager and Ellison were of the opinion that this ordinance could be an
effective tool for the police department in extreme cases. Council Member
Behler commented that this ordinance was initiated because of a citizen’s
letter to council complaining about the litter throughout the city; and,
Council Member Behler suggested that perhaps the litter ordinance was not
sufficient. Mayor Moriconi commented that enforcement of the litter ordinance
is a problem. Council Member Franzen maintained that this ordinance was not
necessary with a litter ordinance already in force. Roll call was answered 4-
1 with Council Member Franzen casting the no vote. City Attorney, Jed Deters
read Ordinance No. 2003-O-04.
Authorization to Advertise Bids for the Construction of the Memorial Park
Amphitheater
21.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a draft copy of the bid packet for
the construction of the amphitheater in Memorial Park. Council Member Yeager
moved, with second by Council Member Ellison to approve the bid packet as
presented. Council Member Franzen asked if this project was fully funded. Mayor
Moriconi replied that the city had funds set aside for this project. She stated
that she thought the city lacked the total amount of funds needed to proceed
with this project. Mayor Moriconi advised that the size of the amphitheater was
scaled back to meet the reserved fund balance. Council Member Yeager commented
that the city does not have additional funds necessary to construct attached
restrooms and dressing rooms, so that section of the amphitheater was removed
from the original plans. She advised that the reserved funds being used for
this project is money that was derived from donations and grants. Roll call
resulted in a 4-1 vote with Council Member Franzen abstaining. Motion carried.
Update on the Fourth of July Celebration – Chairman, Larry Staverman
22.   Mayor Moriconi introduced Larry Staverman, Chairman of the Fourth of July
Celebration Committee.
23.   Mr. Staverman reported to council that since this year July 4th falls on
a Friday the Celebration would be a two-day event beginning on Thursday at 4:00
p.m. until 11:00 p.m. and continuing on Friday from noon until the end of the
fireworks display at nightfall. He stated that the parade would begin at 4:00
p.m. on Friday. He advised council that the committee is in the process of
making the following plans:
∙   Contracting with WNKR radio (106.5) of Dry Ridge Kentucky to synchronize
the fireworks to music and station a van on site on the 4th. WNKR will also
provide the event with on-air advertisement for which they will sell
sponsorships. They will recognize the sponsors right before the fireworks.
Categories for sponsorships are: soft drinks, banks, McDonald’s, supermarkets
and car dealers. WNKR has already sold spots to Farmers National Bank and are
working on Fifth Third Bank, Kroger’s, Robke Chevrolet and Coca-Cola.
∙   Recruiting several business sponsorships to help finance the event
∙   Street banners in four locations around the city to advertise the event.
The sponsors will have their business logos on the banners. The Lions Pride
Amusement s is again providing rides for this year’s event. They will arrive
early Monday morning for staging and will begin to assemble the rides on
Tuesday. A special handicap session with Redwood School on Thursday morning
from noon – 2:00 p.m. The radio station will provide funds for the handicap
session.
24.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the funds from the local businesses will make
it possible to have this as a two-day event this year. He thanked Mr. Staverman
for this report.
Resolution No. 2003-R-11 Supporting a Text Amendment Adding a Modified
Residence as a Conditional Use
25.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for consideration Resolution No.
2003-R-11 that would support a zoning text amendment adding a modified
residence as a conditional use within an R-1C zone. Council Member Ellison
moved, with second by Council Member Yeager to adopt Resolution No. 2003-R-11.
A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Jeff Jarboe and his attorney, David Davidson was
present to answer any questions regarding their request for this text
amendment. Council Member Ellison suggested deleting the word ‘arterial’,
pertaining to state routes, from the resolution as this section of Madison Pike
where Mr. Jarboe’s property is located may soon become a secondary route due to
the re-routing road improvements being made to Route 17. Council Member Yeager
concurred. Mr. Davidson stated he was not aware that that section of Route 17
may become a secondary roadway and since deleting the word ‘arterial’ does not
make a significant difference for their purposes, he had no objection to this
amendment to the resolution. The change in the wording of the resolution was
noted and roll call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 5-0 in
favor.
26.   Mr. Jarboe stated he has received a notice from the Zoning Administrator
to vacate the property and requested council grant a stay of enforcement until
after the text amendment process. Mr. Wendling advised council that since Mr.
Jarboe is operating a business in a residential zone, the zoning violation
notice was issued. Although Mr. Jarboe was issued a home occupation license,
that license does not allow additional employees at the location. Mr. Wendling
advised that the issue here is one of selective enforcement and that council
needs to consider setting precedence if they elect to grant Mr. Jarboe a stay
of enforcement. Mr. Davidson advised that the tax season has ended and that Mr.
Jarboe is attempting to rectify the violation and come into compliance. Mr.
Deters advised the council could delay enforcement until such time that this
matter is settled.
27.   Council Member Yeager motioned to grant Mr. Jarboe a stay of enforcement,
with second by Council Member Ellison. Roll call was unanimous and the motion
carried 5-0 in favor.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 2002/03 Budget – 1st Reading
28.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading an ordinance that
would amend the 2002/03 Budget Ordinance No. 2002-O-11. He advised that this
amendment was necessary due to the overages on snow and ice removal expenses.
In addition, the in and out revenue and expenditures for the school resource
officer in the police department’s budget need to be shown. Council Member
Ellison suggested delaying the adoption of an amended budget until all the
expenses were incurred. The City Clerk explained that the Finance Director
accounted for any unforeseen expenses that may occur during the last several
weeks of this fiscal year to arrive at the amended figures. She stated it was
necessary to do this in order to comply with having the amended budget
ordinance published before the June 30th deadline. There being no further
discussion Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read the proposed ordinance
amending the 2002/03 budget. Mayor Moriconi advised the final reading and
enactment of this ordinance would be presented at the next business meeting of
council.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
29.   Mr. Wendling submitted a written report in the council packets. He
advised the Spring Clean-up was successful as several dumpsters were filled and
hauled away. Mayor Moriconi thanked the Police Department, Independence Fire
Department, Public Works Department and Officer Thatcher for assisting in
cleaning up the overflow of garbage that was left on the parking lot when the
dumpsters had filled up. Mayor Moriconi asked the citizens not to dump their
garbage when the dumpsters are full.
Discussion Regarding Cluster Mailboxes in the Clover Ridge Subdivision
30.   Council Member Yeager asked if the matter of cluster mailboxes in the
Clover Ridge Subdivision had been settled. Mr. Wendling stated that the Post
Office has asked that the city repeal the ordinance that bans cluster
mailboxes. Council Member Ellison stated that the Post Office couldn’t dictate
what the city can and cannot do. He suggested the city take this matter up with
our congressman.
The Oaks Development Detention Pond
31.   Council Member Yeager asked if the matter of the city assuming
maintenance of the detention pond in The Oaks subdivision was a dead issue. Mr.
Wendling replied yes. Council Member Franzen stated she was not in favor of the
city accepting this liability. Mayor Moriconi stated the consensus from council
at the caucus meeting was that the majority has no interest in pursuing the
maintenance of the detention pond.
Decision Regarding the Scrapbook Club
32.   Council Member Yeager asked if council was in favor of allowing the newly
formed Scrapbook Club to use a meeting room at the Senior/Community Center free
of charge. She made that a formal motion, which was seconded by Council Member
Franzen. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes. Mayor Moriconi stated that
since his wife is one of the organizers of this club, that he would advise her
of council’s decision.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
33.   Mayor Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
34.   Mr. Deters advised that the Keeney Development is requesting a sewer
easement and has asked the city for a quitclaim deed to the land. He requested
that council authorize Mayor Moriconi to sign the quitclaim deed.
35.   Council Member Ellison made a motion authorizing Mayor Moriconi to sign
the quitclaim deed for the sewer easement for the Keeney Development, seconded
by Council Member Ketron. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-
0 in favor.
Adjournment
36.   Mrs. JoAnne Cobble requested that before closing the meeting, that Mayor
Moriconi repeat that the 2003/04-city budget would not include a tax increase.
Mayor Moriconi reiterated that there would be no new tax increase. Council
Member Yeager added that that promise did not include the 4% property tax
allowance that the city is budgeting for the 2003/04 fiscal year.
37.   There being no further business, Council Member Ellison moved to adjourn,
with second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and the
meeting adjourned at 8:07 p.m.
                  _______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MAY 19, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE
COUNCIL CAUCUS MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence met on Monday May 19, 2003 at 7:00
p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Moriconi presiding.
Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. The
roll was called and the following council members were present: Council Member
Jim Ellison, Council Member Donna Yeager, Council Member Carol Franzen, Council
Member Mary Pat Behler, Council Member Jim Bushong and Council Member Otis
Ketron. Also present was City Attorney, Mr. Charles Deters, and City
Administrator, Mark Wendling.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi stated Barry Malott of Malco Services signed in for privileges
of the floor and asked to address council.
Mr. Malott who currently holds a contract with the city for park and lawn
maintenance, asked council and mayor to go over the bids for maintenance very
carefully. He did point out that he does not charge for edging around sidewalks
or parking lots and noted the other bidders have added a fee for this service.
He feels his bid is very competitive with the other bidders and wanted council
to know he has been contracting with the city for over eight years and pays
over $460.00 yearly in taxes for his business. He advised council and mayor he
would answer any questions they might have and just wanted them to realize he
thinks his past record with the city speaks for his business.
Mr. Steve Rymarquis of 4744 Crowe Road advised mayor and council that Crowe
Road is slipping into the creek. He stated no repairs have been performed on
this road in years. He stated when Council Member Ellison was mayor, he did
move the shape of the creek but a flood washed that out again.
Council Member Behler asked if Crowe Road was a city road.
Mr. Wendling stated it was and our city engineer did look at.
Mr. Rymarquis stated that Estes Engineering inspected the road several years
ago but nothing was ever done.
Council Member Yeager stated that the Army Corp of Engineers also looked at
Crowe Road several years ago.
Council Member Franzen advised Mr. Rymarquis that she would get with Jeff
Smith, Public Works Department and make an inspection of the road.
Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Rymarquis he will be notified if they have all the
information gathered by the next council meeting.
Mr. Louis Enzweiler at 619 Independence Station Road advised mayor and council
that he received a letter in March 2003 inquiring as to the status of sidewalks
in front of this property. Mr. Enzweiler stated when the site plan was approved
by NKAPC, there were no sidewalks noted. He stated he has nothing against
sidewalks but there is a problem with the feasibility issue and the
construction of sidewalks. Due to the slope of the land, trees will have to be
removed along Independence Station Road. He stated after the trees are removed
he will have to shore up a portion of the property in order to level the
foundation of the sidewalk. He stated the Kenton County Golf Course drains on
to this property from the other side of the street and also the drainage ditch
line maintained by the county would flow across the sidewalk. He stated it
would cost around $5,000.00 to install sidewalks and is requesting a waiver so
he can obtain a final occupancy permit. He stated the county engineer inspected
the site and advised it would be impossible to put in a sidewalk.
Council Member Ketron asked Mr. Enzweiler how much road footage is in front of
the property.
Mr. Enzweiler stated there is 150 feet of road footage.
Council Member Bushong asked how a waiver would be granted.
Mr. Enzweiler stated that NKAPC told him it is a city issued waiver and if the
city doesn’t have a problem they can issue a certificate of occupancy.
Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Enzweiler if any of the adjoining property
owners have sidewalks.
Mr. Enzweiler stated there is not a sidewalk within a half-mile of this
property.
Council Member Franzen asked if none of the other properties were required to
install sidewalks, why does he have to.
Mr. Wendling stated the subdivision regulations require sidewalks on all new
development. When Mr. Enzweiler filed his plat with NKAPC, he did not have
sidewalks on the site plan, and they approved the site plan without the
sidewalks. He stated Mr. Enzweiler has built houses without sidewalks and he
was advised the houses have to have sidewalks before a final occupancy can be
issued. Mr. Wendling stated it is a steep terrain but as more development goes
around this property, the city would eventually have to pay to have the
sidewalks put in if Mr. Enzweiler does not have to.
Attorney Charles Deters asked if the present ordinance requires, under
subdivisions, to have sidewalks.
Mr. Enzweiler stated his interpretation of a subdivision is if you can
interpret a subdivision to one lot divided into two lots by definition.
Attorney Charles Deters asked Mr. Enzweiler when the lot split from the large
lot.
Mr. Enzweiler stated in August or September of 2001.
Mayor Moriconi stated they would bring this back to the June meeting for a
vote.
OLD BUSINESS
Zone Change and Additional Annexation-Glenhurst Development
Mr. Chuck Berling stated that NKAPC has advised him that the way the zoning is
set up, they cannot donate the 25 acres to the Kenton County Board of
Education. The acreage would have to go to the city first and then the city can
decide what to do with the green space before the subdivision gets completed.
Mr. Wendling asked Mr. Berling if he is correct in saying that the city can
deed the property over to the school district, but Glenhurst Development cannot
do it directly.
Mr. Berling stated NKAPC requires that the space must to go to a public entity.
The school board for some reason does not fall under that. He stated the
property has to come to the city first.
Attorney Charles Deters asked if the plat was originally designated to the
city. Mr. Berling stated it was. Attorney Charles Deters commented that is
probably the reason it has to go to the city first.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Berling if they are going to put in utilities on this
property. Mr. Berling stated they are going to put in the utilities, sewer,
water, and, provide sidewalks on both frontages of the site.
Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Berling if he felt the city should decide what
they are going to use it for. Mr. Berling stated the city should look at their
options. He stated the site plan does show a lake utilized for detention and is
sized big enough to serve the school board for their detention. If it stays as
recreational use, the city doesn’t necessarily need a lake. Those issues need
to be discussed.
Council Member Behler asked Mr. Berling how soon he would need a decision from
the city.
Mr. Berling stated they would need four to six months to submit the special
design plans.
FINAL REVIEW of the PROPOSED 2003/2004 BUDGET
Mayor Moriconi stated a few things have come up recently regarding the police
budget. He stated at the last mayors meeting they discussed lap tops that sit
in police cruisers that the officer can enter all the data on a vehicle
directly instead of going thru Kenton County Dispatch. The county has received
a $1,000,000.00 grant, which they will use to assist in the expense of some of
the MDT’s. He stated there would never be a better time or price to purchase
this equipment.
Mayor Moriconi asked Chief Butler to explain the importance of the Mobile Data
Terminals.
Chief Butler stated he would like to explain why this expense did not show in
the new budget. He stated the facts on the MDT’s have only unfolded in the last
two weeks. He stated this project has been worked on for the past three years,
countywide. He stated Kenton County Fiscal Court is willing to make up the
additional one third funding with the final one third funding being divided by
the cities. He stated the terminals are more than just a computer in their
cruiser. It actually entails building an entire infrastructure throughout the
county. In discussions with the mayor in regards to what is important to the
police department, Chief Butler stated he would like to have both a new officer
and the MDT’s but knows that is not possible. In an effort to make the
department more efficient and do a better job is to give officers the tools to
better use their time on the street and felt this is the best way to go for the
next budget year. Chief Butler stated this would take approximately $30,000.00
out of what the department has asked for. Chief Butler stated the terminals
should reduce the police officers time on a traffic stop from twenty-two
minutes to approximately nine minutes. As far as safety issues, the officer
will know what they are dealing with before they even stop a car in regards to
being stolen or warrants on the persons in the cars. Chief Butler stated it was
a tough decision foregoing an additional officer but he felt the city should
take advantage of this opportunity. He stated the cost would be approximately
$35,000.00 a year for ten years. It will cover all costs, all air time costs,
all upgrades to the system.
Council Member Behler asked if a terminal would go in each squad car.
Chief Butler stated there will be twenty terminals and would go in all patrol
cars and supervisor cars.
Council Member Ellison asked if ongoing training would be given.
Chief Butler stated the officer has to be certified by attending an eight-hour
training course given by the Kentucky State Police.
Council Member Franzen asked what else are the computers capable of.
Chief Butler stated the computers would allow the officers to literally do a
field report in the field instead of having to go back to the office to do the
paperwork.
Mayor Moriconi stated this information was received since the first reading of
the 2003/2004 Budget.
Mr. Wendling stated the budget would not have to be modified as long as the
monies come out of the police budget.
Council Member Bushong asked Janet Rebman, Finance Director why the decrease
under Tangible Property Taxes.
Ms. Rebman stated there is no certain percentage increase in tangible tax.
Tangible taxes are hard to predict and she was trying to be conservative.
Council Member Ellison asked Ms. Rebman if the $202,454.00 was also estimated
high and you budgeted less for 2003/2004, he did not see where the decrease
would apply.
Ms. Rebman stated the original budget for 2002/2003 was $179,000.00. She stated
she increased it on the amended budget because it was coming in higher. She
stated she did not increase it the second time because again she was being
conservative.
Council Member Bushong stated he was not comfortable in giving the elected
officials an increase in pay.
Mr. Wendling stated that raise was established by ordinance, and council would
have to pass another ordinance changing that.
Council Member Franzen and Council Member Behler both agreed with Council
Member Bushong.
Council Member Franzen stated under the Senior Center Fund there is a transfer
from the General Fund of $115,000.00. She asked why the Senior Center Board is
not taking in more money since they control the building and why is the city
paying $115,000.00.
Mr. Wendling stated the Senior Center Board and the city had an agreement on
the salary for the director. The first year they paid $40,000.00 and the second
year they paid $20,000.00 toward the director’s salary. He stated the Senior
Board does not control the center. They do have use of it between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. but the city does set policy for the building. All
monies paid to use the building for whatever purpose is turned over to the
city.
Council Member Franzen stated she is having a problem with it because the city
is short of money and the Public Works Department needs another employee and
the police department needs another employee and the city is giving $115,000.00
to the Senior Center.
Council Member Ellison proposed that the city enter into a hiring freeze.
Council Member Franzen stated she takes issue with Council Member Ellison’s
suggested hiring freeze considering he voted to spend $245,000.00 of the city’s
money for a council chamber section in the new Municipal Center. She stated he
also voted for the construction of the Senior Center and now supports the
building of an Amphitheater, all of which the city cannot afford the associated
operational expenses of these buildings. Council Member Franzen strongly
disagreed with a hiring freeze, as she feels it would place the citizens and
police at risk.
Council Member Yeager stated the amphitheater would not cost the city anything
as the state has contributed $200,000 with another $75,000 of private donations
received for his project.
Council Member Franzen stated it has to be insured, it has to be maintained and
the city has to pay acts to perform and the police have to monitor the crowd.
She stated we haven’t hired a public works employee in four years and a police
officer in five years.
Council Member Behler stated she agrees with Council Member Franzen in that the
city needs to supplement the Public Works Department. She stated when she read
the information given to her by Jeff Smith she was appalled by how understaffed
that department is.
Council Member Franzen stated we have city streets that need repairs but we
keep building. She stated she is all for the buildings if the city has the
money to do it, but we don’t have the money to do it.
Mr. Bill Cobble addressed council on how many police officers are required for
a certain number of citizens.
Chief Butler stated that the norm is 2.6 officers per 1,000 citizens.
Mr. Cobble asked if the number of citizens that live in Harvest Hill
Subdivision is included in that count.
Chief Butler stated that subdivision is not in the city limits.
Mr. Cobble stated that Independence Police do go there to answer calls.
Chief Butler stated only in emergency situations.
Mr. Cobble stated if they do not pay city taxes then the Independence Police
Department should not respond to their calls.
Chief Butler stated if there is an emergency situation and one of his officers
is one minute away and the county police are twenty minutes away, then they
will respond. He stated the county police would do the same thing for them.
Mrs. JoAnn Cobble stated the city should bill the county police for answering
calls out of their jurisdiction.
Mayor Moriconi stated police try to back each other up when an emergency
arrives.
Mr. John Sanders of Pioneer Drive stated he had the opportunity to talk with
Council Member Franzen after she rode with one of our police officers. He
stated he was shocked when he was told there were only three officers on the
street for that shift. Mayor Moriconi stated he appreciates the comments and
technically the city should have thirty policemen and we only have twenty-
three.
Mayor Moriconi stated essentially there is no hiring in this budget.
Mr. Cobble asked why the new mayor and council did not put off building the
municipal center if the knew we were short on funds. Council Member Franzen
stated she suggested that. Mr. Cobble stated he is not against a new city
building if we have the money.
Mayor Moriconi stated that was hashed out two years ago as a campaign issue but
it is a done deal. The county wants the space back that the police department
is renting. He stated it is embarrassing for a city this size not to have a
permanent home for our police department. The fiscal court gave the city a
certain amount of time to vacate the space so the city decided if they had to
build a police building then we should consolidate everything under one roof.
Since that time the debt has been refinanced, the payment cut in half and now
has a locked interest rate. He stated the building is no longer an issue and
that is not why we are here today. He stated the city should have been hiring
police officers throughout the years. The city did not get into this situation
in the last six months or because we built that building. The city was not
taking the compensating 4% over the years for the taxes and no planning. This
all didn’t happen because we were elected, this goes back years. To answer your
question we were forced to do something and Mayor Kriege deserves a lot of
credit for getting all of this started. He stated he is proud of the way he
voted and he would not change it. Mayor Moriconi asked if anyone else had any
questions regarding the budget.
Council Member Yeager stated she has spoke to Mr. Wendling and Ms. Rebman
regarding the format of the budget and some changes are going to be made.
Council Member Ellison stated it is a little difficult to follow.
NEW BUSINESS
BIDS-LAWN MAINTENANCE
Mayor Moriconi stated under new business is the review of the lawn maintenance
bids. He stated five bids were received and Barry Malott of Malco Services
spoke earlier and gave us some paperwork on his pricing. He stated that Ridge
Runners of Dry Ridge had the lowest bid followed by Executive Lawn Care,
Jackson’s, Malco and then RPC.
Council Member Ellison noted that Ridge Runners quoted $40.00 per time at
Independence Park, which means Ridge Runners is going to charge less to cut a
larger park than Sterling Staggs. Council Member Ellison requested the city do
some background references on the bids and find out if Jackson’s is located in
Taylor Mill.
Mayor Moriconi suggested that references be obtained from Ridge Runners and
Jackson’s and be brought back to the next council meeting.
Council Member Ellison noted Executive Lawn Care did not quote a price for
Glenhurst Park and did not feel that Glenhurst Park would require a lot of
mowing.
Mayor Moriconi stated this contract would take the mowing into late summer,
fall and next spring.
Mr. Wendling stated Glenhurst Park is ready for mowing at this time due to
grass seed being sewn earlier.
SPEED LIMIT-TAYLOR MILL RD
Mayor Moriconi stated Mr. Martin Neltner is asking the city to pass a
resolution lowering the speed limit from 45 mph to 35 mph on the stretch of
Taylor Mill Road that is in our city.
Mr. Wendling asked if council thought 45 mph on Taylor Mill Road is excessive.
He stated that Council Member Franzen rode with Officer Schultz and only one
person was pulled over for speeding, which was 51 mph.
Council Member Bushong stated until the new reconstruction of Taylor Mill Road
has started the city doesn’t really know what kind of plans they have regarding
the speed. He suggested that the city do nothing at this time.
Council Member Behler stated she travels Taylor Mill Road everyday and does not
feel anything needs to be done at this time.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Wendling to contact Mr. Neltner advising him council
does not feel the city needs to make any changes at this time.
SIDEWALK REGULATION-INDEPENDENCE ROAD
Mayor Moriconi stated new development is planned at the intersection of Cody
Road and Independence Station Road, to the northeast, which will have 228
homes. He stated NKAPC waived the sidewalk requirements for that part of
development that will front Independence Station Road.
Mr. Wendling stated what normally happens is a developer will request a waiver
on sidewalks. If it is requested in advance, it will go on the agenda so the
city or any other interested party can attend a public hearing and voice their
objections if there are any. This waiver was not placed on the agenda, so you
assume there is no waiver requested. Council then did not have an opportunity
to take a position on it. The developer brought it up at the hearing and
evidentially it was granted at the hearing.  
Council Member Ellison stated that Independence Station Road is dangerously
narrow, and he thought if they were to put in sidewalks, he was going to
suggest the developer be made to set enough land aside on Independence Station
Road down to the railroad tracks to widen the road.
Mr. Wendling stated the developer has just recently applied for a zone change
from R1-A to R1-C, which will go to the planning commission at its June
commission hearing and will come back to the city in July.
TEXT AMENDMENT-OUTDOOR DINING IN NC ZONE
Mayor Moriconi stated Pasquale’s Pizza had approached him regarding a text
amendment permitting the restaurant to do outdoor dining.
Mr. Wendling stated they want to put a couple of tables on their front porch
fronting Madison Pike for out door dining. Mr. Wendling stated he has advised
Mr. David Lee that the zoning ordinance prohibits this. He stated council would
have to do a text amendment for a conditional use in a neighborhood zone.
Council Member Ellison stated he felt the city should pass a text amendment but
needs to add conditions.
INTER-LOCAL AGREEMENT WITH KENTON COUNTY/ANIMAL CONTROL
Mayor Moriconi stated council was asked to review the Inter-Local Agreement
with Kenton County Animal Control Services. Council Member Franzen asked if
anything had changed in the agreement other than Kenton County Police
overseeing the dog authority. Mr. Wendling stated it was originally going to be
with the Kenton County Animal Shelter but the county felt the Kenton County
Police could better manage it because they are an enforcement agency and the
shelter is not. Council Member Ellison asked if the dog authority employees
would be able to keep their seniority, wages and benefits. Mr. Wendling stated
nothing would change for the employees.
CITY ATTORNEY REPORT – Jed K. Deters
SUNDAY LIQUOR SALES
Mayor Moriconi stated City Attorney Jed Deters reviewed the Kentucky Statutes
for liquor sales and the statutes do provide that each municipality may set its
own time for liquor and beers sales by ordinance.
Council Member Bushong asked if this was mainly to benefit Kenton County Golf
Course. Mayor Moriconi stated the golf course wants to be able to sell beer by
11:00 a.m. on Sundays.
Council Member Behler asked what is the benefit to the city.
Mayor Moriconi stated he was advised the golfers are bringing beer to the golf
course because they cannot buy it until l:00 p.m. so by changing the time the
golf course can generate more revenue.
Council Member Franzen stated if an ordinance is drafted, is the city going to
sell liquor licenses to generate revenue for the city. She stated she was not
in favor of changing the time but if the city can generate revenue she would
not be against the ordinance.
Mr. Wendling stated if the city proceeds to sell liquor licenses to
restaurants, it would also include stores that sell packaged liquor. Mr.
Wendling stated he would further research this matter regarding the fee for a
liquor license in other cities.
BUSINESS RECOGNITION OF THE MONTH
Council Member Ellison stated he would like to recognize State Farm Insurance
that has been in the since city November 1979.
ADJOURNMENT
Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn with a second by Council Member Ellison.
Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 8:45 p.m.
                     _________________________________
               Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant City Clerk
_________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 2, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June
2, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Jim Kudera gave the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler,
Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Attorney, Jed Deters and Mark Wendling, City Administrator.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Ellison has selected State Farm
Insurance, Agent Greg Wermuth as recipient of the Business of the Month
tribute. Unfortunately Mr. Wermuth was ill and not able to attend this meeting.
Mayor Moriconi suggested presenting the plaque to Mr. Wermuth next month, along
with the July Business of the Month recipient.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 5, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the May 5,
2003 regular meeting of council. Council Member Ketron so moved, with second
from Council Member Franzen. Several amendments were noted and approved and
roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 19, 2003 Caucus Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the May 19,
2003 caucus meeting of council. Council Member Bushong moved, with second from
Council Member Behler. Several amendments were noted and approved. Roll call
was answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
PRIVELEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Betty Eichelberger, 6258 Taylor Mill Road, addressed council regarding
several concerns. Her first concern was the recent activity on the property
located at the corner of Cox and Taylor Mill Roads. Mayor Moriconi advised her
that he believes that the owner is planning to construct about 38-40 new
single-family homes. Mr. Wendling stated that the land is being cleared, but
the developer has not yet filed a plat. Ms. Eichelberger was concerned about
the ingress/egress location on Cox Road. She also asked about the size of this
development. Mr. Deters, City Attorney, stated that the developer would have to
comply with the permitted use of that zone. Mayor Moriconi stated that he
thought the development would be 80-foot residential lots.
6.   Ms. Eichelberger reported that the property located at 6215 Taylor Mill
Road is operating a car repair shop. This property has an ever-present wrecker
with cars and a boat with for-sale signs parked in front. She reported that the
garage is being expanded. She complained that she has not been able to reach
the city’s Zoning Administrator. Council Member Behler requested that Mr.
Wendling make sure that the Zoning Administrator contacts Ms. Eichelberger.
7.   Ms. Eichelberger pointed out another high weeds and grass zoning violation
at the Shadybrook Trails Subdivision off of Taylor Mill Road. She stated that
the grass had not been mowed during the spring and was a foot tall before it
was recently cut. Mr. Wendling stated he would see that the Zoning
Administrator monitors this property.
8.   Ms. Eichelberger asked who would be inspecting Marty Neltner’s property to
ensure that the building codes will be adhered to. Mr. Wendling replied that
the building inspector will oversee this development during the construction
process and since this is a commercial development Northern Kentucky Area
Planning will perform the inspections.
9.   Ms. Eichelberger’s last concern was who was responsible for declaring a
‘burn ban.’ Council Member Yeager stated that the Fire Chief at the
Independence Fire District would be the person to issue a ‘burn ban’. She also
stated that at specific times of the year a ‘burn ban’ is routinely in effect.
10.   John Sanders, 5268 Pioneer Drive, read a prepared statement to council
wherein he expressed his concern regarding the city’s current level of revenue
and growing operational expenses. He stated the Senior/Community Center and
Memorial Park amphitheater are nice facilities to have, but questioned how the
city would provide future operational funding for these buildings. Mr. Sanders
suggested imposing a builder’s franchise fee of at least $200.00 per house. He
stated this would provide the city with the necessary funds to continue police
protection and other city services from the outset instead of cutting other
worthy items from the budget. Mr. Sanders also suggested enacting a city
alcohol sales permit, which he acknowledged would not generate a lot of
revenue, but felt would increase over time. He stated that city auto stickers
would also produce much needed revenue that would be another growth product.
Mr. Sanders stated that the residents primary public services concerns are
Public Works and Police Department related and urged council to address the
staffing needs in those departments. In closing, Mr. Sanders urged council to
dedicate their efforts in the coming year to finding innovative ways of raising
revenue without weakening the pockets of the senior citizens.
11.   Chuck Kahrs, 21 Oby Drive addressed council regarding the on-going
problem with speeding drivers on Oby Drive. He stated that he has been working
together with the Police Chief to solve this traffic problem on their street.
Chief Butler stated he has been there numerous times during the past month. Mr.
Kahrs requested that the city install speed bumps or a street sign midway along
the street.
12.   Another resident on the street, David Millward, 25 Oby Drive concurred
that the speeding has become a bad situation, stating this has become a problem
due to the increased traffic on this street coming from the development of the
Freedom Trail area. Council Member Behler asked if the city had a policy
regarding the installation of stop signs. Chief Butler stated that the city
recently passed an ordinance that would allow him to use his discretion in
considering a solution. He stated he will inspect the area to see if it
conforms to the guidelines as generally stop signs are not installed midway
through a street. Council Member Ellison agreed that in this particular
situation a stop sign might be warranted. Council Member Yeager also agreed
that if Chief Butler determines that the criteria support the need, that a stop
sign should be installed. Mayor Moriconi advised Chief Butler to make the
determination regarding this matter.
Ordinance No. 2003-O- 05 – Amending the 2002/03 Budget Ordinance No. 2002-O-11
– 2nd Reading
13.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2003-O-05 that would amend the 2002/03 Budget Ordinance No. 2002-O-11. City
Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance. Council Member Ellison moved
with second by Council Member Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2003-O- 05. Roll
call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance Adopting the 2002/03 Budget – 1st Reading
14.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a new first reading a proposed
Ordinance that would approve a city budget for the 2003/04 fiscal year. Mayor
Moriconi advised that a first reading of the budget was done at the May 5th
business meeting, but with the changes that were made at the May 19th caucus
meeting it will be necessary to have another first reading of this ordinance.
The changes made at the caucus meeting reflected a savings by deleting an
additional officer in the police department and adding the expense of the
mobile data terminals for the cruisers. He stated this presents a savings in
the overall budget. Mr. Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi
advised that a second reading of this budget ordinance would be presented at a
special meeting to be scheduled prior to the June 16th caucus meeting.
Award of the Bid for the Lawn Maintenance Contract
15.   Mayor Moriconi advised council that the city is in receipt of five bids,
which were opened on May 14, 2003 for the lawn and park maintenance for the
coming year. Companies submitting bids were Executive Lawn Care, Ridge Runners
Outdoor Home Care, RPC Mechanical, Inc., Jackson’s Lawn Care and Malco Lawn
Services, who currently hold the contract. Mr. Wendling stated that references
were checked for Jackson’s Lawn Care and Ridge Runners. He advised that the
reference that Ridge Runners provided to the city stated that that company had
not performed lawn maintenance services, but had done a roofing job for them.
He stated that the references checked for Jackson’s Lawn Care reported
satisfaction with their work performance. Mr. Wendling stated that Malco Lawn
Services has held the city contract for this service for the last several years
and the city continues to be very satisfied with this company’s service. He
stated that Malco Lawn Service is based in Independence. Council Member Franzen
commented that since Malco doesn’t charge for edging that his bid is probably
cheaper than the companies that quoted an hourly rate to edge. She stated the
city also receives payroll taxes from Malco. Council Member Yeager reported
that Malco is always available to the city in times when a particular job needs
to be completed quickly.
16.   Council Member Yeager moved to accept the bid from Malco Lawn Services
and award the contract for the lawn and park maintenance for the 2003/04 fiscal
year, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Award of the Bid for the 2003 Street Repairs Contract (Clubhouse Drive & Pearl
Drive)
17.   Mayor Moriconi presented for council’s review and consideration bid
results received for the proposed street repairs on Clubhouse Drive and Pearl
Drive. Mr. Wendling reported that six companies submitted bids. Mayor Moriconi
stated that City Engineer, Mark Brueggemann has recommended awarding the
contract to Barrett Paving Materials in the amount of $103,614.50. Mr. Wendling
stated these streets would receive sectional concrete replacements and curb
repairs. He advised the bid amounts were considerably lower than estimated,
which is good news for the city and will make additional street repairs
possible. Council Member Ellison moved to accept the bid from Barrett Paving
Materials in the amount of $103,614.50 as submitted; seconded by Council Member
Ketron. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Award of the Bid for the Construction of the Memorial Park Amphitheater
18.   Mayor Moriconi presented for council’s consideration the bid tabulation
sheet reviewing the five bids received for the construction of the
amphitheater. He stated the bids came in under budget, lower than projected
with the low bid submitted by B.L. Spille Construction. The city requested a
base bid with five alternate bids:
Alternate #1 – Concrete Pavement
Alternate #2 – Additional Grading & Seeding
Alternate #3 – 400 Amp Electric
Alternate #4 – 800 Amp Electric
Alternate #5 – Electric Line to Sanitary Lift Station
19.   Mayor Moriconi advised that Robert Ehmet Hayes, the architect is
recommending that B.L. Spille Construction be awarded this project for the base
bid along with alternates 1, 2, 4 and 5 for a total contract amount of
$202,956.00.
20.   Council Member Bushong moved with second by Council Member Yeager to
award the contract to B.L. Spille Construction for a total bid amount of
$202,956.00. A brief discussion ensued wherein Council Member Ellison
questioned the need for alternate #5. He stated he thought this was included in
the construction of the new Municipal Center, which is nearby. Mayor Moriconi
advised that this would not be included in the Municipal Center, as it will be
re-routed. Council Member Ellison was concerned the city would be paying for
this twice, for both the Municipal Center and the amphitheater. Mr. Wendling
stated that the electric line would not run from the Municipal Center. Council
Member Bushong asked if this change order for the Municipal Center would show
up as a credit. Mayor Moriconi stated the Municipal Center would be credited
for this expense. Roll call was answered with five yes votes and one no vote
cast by Council Member Franzen. Council Member Franzen clarified her vote by
asserting the amphitheater would cause operational expenses the city could not
afford and these operational costs would be better spent on other needs. Motion
carried 5-1.
Resolution No. 2003-R-12 – Interlocal Agreement with Kenton County for Animal
Control Services
21.   Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2003-R-12 wherein the city would
enter into an interlocal agreement with Kenton County Fiscal Court for Animal
Control Services. Mr. Deters read the resolution. Council Member Behler moved
with second by Council Member Franzen to approve Resolution No. 2003-R-12.
Council Member Bushong expressed concern that this consolidation of the Kenton
County Dog Authority and Kenton County Fiscal Court would have an adverse
effect on the number of dog handlers. Mr. Wendling advised that this concern
was addressed in the agreement. He stated there would be a total of four dog
controllers, which includes the two Dog Authority employees who would transfer
their employment to Kenton County. He stated that under the agreement they
would receive the same level of pay, benefits and seniority. Mayor Moriconi
pointed to page two of the agreement that outlines this part of the agreement.
Roll call was answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Council
Members Ellison and Ketron. Council Member Yeager stated that she voted yes
with the understanding that the employees working for the Kenton County Dog
Authority would not lose their job due to this merger. Motion carried 4-2.
Resolution No. 2003-R-13 – Supporting a Text Amendment to Add Outdoor Dining
Facilities in the NC and NSC Zones
22.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the owner of Pasquale’s Pizza, David Lee has
approached the city regarding his desire to set up an outdoor dining area at
the restaurant. He stated that the city’s current zoning ordinance does not
permit outdoor dining. He presented for council’s consideration a resolution
that would support a zoning text amendment that would permit outdoor dining as
a conditional use in the NC (neighborhood commercial) and NSC (neighborhood
shopping center) zones. Mr. Wendling stated that if council approves this
resolution it would be submitted to the Kenton County Planning Commission for
review at their July 10 public hearing. Mr. Lee stated that about two months
ago he spoke with Mr. Wendling and Mayor Moriconi regarding his plans for the
restaurant. He stated that he has had a successful first year and would like to
work with the city to continue the enhancement of the downtown area. He stated
that the downtown area is viable and growing and he has a good feel for the
area. He would like to set up a minimal outdoor dining area in the front to
provide another dining alternative for his customers. He stated his future
plans include the purchase of the building from Mr. Ponzer, a full service
alcohol bar and outdoor dining in the rear.
23.   Council Member Bushong stated that he endorses this text amendment. He
stated he has reviewed Mr. Lee’s outdoor dining plans and feels it will be a
good addition to the downtown area.
24.   Mr. Deters read the resolution. Council Member Ellison moved to approve
Resolution No. 2003-R-13, with second by Council Member Bushong. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2003-R-14 – Authorizing the Interlocal Agreement with Kenton
County for Vehicle Maintenance
25.   Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2003-R-14 for council to approve
authorizing him to enter into an annual interlocal agreement with the Kenton
County Fiscal Court for the purpose of vehicle maintenance on city owned
vehicles. Mr. Deters read the resolution. Council Member Franzen moved with
second by Council Member Ellison to approve Resolution No. 2003-R-14. Roll call
was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Zone Change Request for 130 Acres of the Glenhurst
Subdivision – 1st Reading
26.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their consideration a proposed
ordinance that would endorse a map amendment changing an approximate 130-acre
area located in the Glenhurst Subdivision at the terminus of Hogreffe Road from
zones A-1, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D and I-1 to R-1D (PUD) and providing certain
conditions. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi introduced
Mr. Chuck Berling who was present to address any questions posed by council
regarding this zone change request.
27.   Council Member Behler asked Mr. Deters what could be done to prevent a
repeat of what happened in the Cloverridge Subdivision. She advised that
Cloverridge was supposed to integrate different qualities of homes, but in fact
was segregated. Mr. Berling responded by advising that the plan submitted for
this development would call for the smaller lots to be constructed toward the
Industrial Park area and the larger homes along Independence Road. He stated he
couldn’t arbitrarily make changes to this plan; it would be necessary to re-
submit the plan to the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission for approval.
Mr. Deters concurred that Mr. Berling would have to construct the development
as layout and approved by the Commission.
28.   Council Member Ellison pointed to Section 1, Number 3 of the proposed
ordinance and stated that he would like to see the intersection of Glenhurst
Drive and Hogreffe Road have both a left turn lane and three way stop signs. He
stated it currently is worded either/or; allowing the developer to select
either option. He stated he does not want to see this as a choice. Mr. Berling
stated it would be either/or from a traffic flow standpoint. He stated that he
doesn’t have a problem with Council Member Ellison’s request. The changes were
noted and Mr. Deters did another first reading incorporating the change. Mayor
Moriconi stated the ordinance would be presented at the July 7, 2003 business
meeting for a second reading,
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing the Time of 11:00 A.M. for Liquor Sales – 1st
Reading
29.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would
establish the time of 11:00 a.m. as the time that liquor and malt beverages may
begin being sold and served on Sunday within the city limits. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance. Council Member Franzen asked if the city has researched
implementing a city liquor license. Mr. Wendling stated that due to vacations
he has been unable to research this. Mayor Moriconi stated that a second
reading of this ordinance would be presented at the July 7, 2003 business
meeting.
City Administrator’s Report – Mark T. Wendling
30.   Mr. Wendling advised that it was discussed at the caucus meeting the
possibility of granting Mr. Enzweiler waiver for the installation of a sidewalk
in front of his home on Independence Station Road. He advised that since the
city attorney was on vacation, the city would need more time to research this
matter. Council Member Ketron asked if this could be added to the Special
Council Meeting agenda so that the city will not hold up Mr. Enzweiler’s
certificate of occupancy. Mayor Moriconi agreed to this request.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
31.   Mayor Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Adjournment
32.   There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved with second
by Council Member Ellison to adjourn. The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 16, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL CAUCUS MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 16,
2003 at 7:05 p.m. in the Independence Senior/Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and
Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim Ellison was absent. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Public Comment on the Mayor’s Decision to Non-Renew the City Administrator’s
Contract
Sherry Carran, 927 Forest Avenue, Covington, Kentucky, introduced herself as
the Board Supervisor of the Kenton County Conservation District. She stated
that her work is mainly volunteer and that she addresses the concerns of
conserving natural resources. She stated she is very involved in land use
issues and has been active in raising awareness concerning the Banklick
Watershed.
Ms. Carran stated that she had discussed the Glenhurst Subdivision development
with Mr. Wendling on a couple of occasions and expressed concern how the city
would be able to manage the rapid growth without a full time city
administrator. She stated the elected city officials have limited time to
oversee these developments. She stated that she had also spoken to Mr. Wendling
about the deteriorating condition of Crowe Road, how it is falling into the
Banklick Creek, and how she had agreed to assist Mr. Wendling with finding a
solution for this problem.
Ms. Carran also spoke to the Independence Station Road project planned by Mr.
Berling. She stated that the city currently does not permit PUD’s (Planned
Urban Developments) and urged council to be more open to innovative approaches
in this city that is experiencing rapid residential growth. She pointed out
that the city has very little commercial development and advised the city will
always have budgetary constraints if commercial areas are not planned. She
stated the quality of life for residents is important, as is good roads,
adequate green space and a fiscally responsible budget. She stated that a city
administrator is valuable in this process.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the city is aware of the need for more commercial
growth and have avenues that will be followed for all developments. He advised
that the city council still has the final say for zone change requests. Mayor
Moriconi assured Ms. Carran that the city would continue to operate without a
city administrator.
Beverly Stewart, 808 Stephens Road, Independence, stated that she is a nursing
manager with St. Elizabeth Hospital South. She addressed council regarding her
concern over the loss of a city administrator. She stated that she called the
city office to request a copy of the job description for the city administrator
position and expressed displeasure that she was told she would have to complete
a public records request form and that it would take three days to obtain it.
She stated she does not find this procedure acceptable.
Ms. Stewart went on to say that she is concerned how the city will oversee the
new capital developments, such as the Municipal Center, parks and Amphitheater
as well as the tremendous residential growth without a city administrator on
staff. She stated that this position would oversee expansion, and fears the
city will be out of balance and will find incorporating these new projects
difficult.
Kari Ward, 10414 Calvary Road, Independence also addressed council regarding
the elimination of the city administrator position. She stated that having
three employees assume the duties of another person’s job is not effective
government, especially in light of the capital projects the city has recently
initiated. She stated that she felt it would be necessary to have one person to
communicate and coordinate these projects.
Ms. Ward also voiced her concern regarding the water drainage problem at
Memorial Park and felt that a city administrator could address this issue as
well as assisting in beautifying the city parks.
Council Member Yeager addressed Ms. Ward’s concern about the drainage problem
at Memorial Park by advising the city has had three engineers and the city’s
public works department try to solve that problem area in the park. Ms. Ward
stated the area is near the playground and is swampland. She also complained
that the park has no bathroom facility. Council Member Yeager reported that the
city has plans to construct a bathroom facility. Mayor Moriconi advised Ms.
Ward that the city is very aware of the drainage issue in Memorial Park and
will continue to assess this area to solve the swampy condition of the area
near the playground.
Mayor Moriconi also addressed the public concerns regarding the elimination of
the city administrator position. He stated it is not uncommon for a city to
function without a city administrator. He complimented the city staff by
stating they are very knowledgeable of their jobs and expressed confidence that
business would be handled effectively. He assured everyone that, if in six
months or so he finds it necessary, he will re-evaluate the situation. Council
Member Behler expressed her concern with the Mayor’s decision to eliminate the
city administrator position. She stated she has been doing some research
comparing Independence with other cities in the Kenton, Boone and Campbell
counties. She advised that Independence is a third class city along with
Erlanger and Florence: both Erlanger and Florence have a city administrator.
She stated that a third class city is one that has a population in the range of
8,000 and 19,999. She advised that she has learned that only some fourth-class
cities have administrators, mainly those with a higher population and larger
land area. Council Member Behler stated that she feels the city needs to look
at reducing other expenses and discussing possible revenue enhancements in
order to restore the city administrator position.
Council Member Franzen stated that she supports the Mayor’s decision and also
wants what is best for the city. She stated that she voted against the
amphitheater project, as she does not feel the city can afford to operate the
facility once it is built. She went on to say that all the residential growth
is added expense for the city because the cost to provide services to the
increased population is exceeding the revenue generated by these homes.
Council Member Yeager answered that the amphitheater isn’t costing the city;
the money to build it has come from the state and private donations. She stated
the city would work at acquiring sponsors for bringing in the various bands and
other entertainment, just as other cities and counties do.
Mayor Moriconi remarked that over the last six months he has made some changes;
hired a new attorney and city engineer. He stated it is his job to represent a
population of nearly 15,000 residents and that in a perfect world the city
would have employees such as an administrator or an economic developer. He
stated that Independence couldn’t be compared to Florence or Erlanger, who have
much larger tax bases. Council Member Behler countered that smaller fourth-
class cities have administrators and with Independence having 17.66 square
miles this city is bigger than other cities. She maintained that with a growth
average of 300 homes each year if will be difficult to take stock without a
city administrator.
Canberra Ridge Subdivision – Sidewalk Waiver Request on Independence Station
Road
Mayor Moriconi called on Mr. Jim Berling and Mr. Jim Wenstrup of the Scheben
Group who were present to discuss the sidewalk concern along Independence
Station Road where the Canberra Ridge development will be located. Council
Member Behler advised that a sidewalk along Independence Station Road was not
indicated on the preliminary plat that was approved by the Planning Commission.
She stated that the omission of a sidewalk was an oversight and has not been
officially waived by the city. Mr. Berling stated that the Planning Commission
staff recommendation included sidewalks for the streets within the subdivision
but due to the severe topography on Independence Station Road that sidewalks
were not recommended along that street. He stated that this was the initiative
of the Planning Commission, not theirs. He stated they would be working with
Kenton County to widen that section of Independence Station Road for safety
reasons. He stated the development of Canberra Ridge will bring about
intersection improvements to the area of Independence Station Road and Cody
Road and that a sidewalk is planned for the area between the intersection and
the entrance into Canberra Ridge. He stated there is a real safety concern in
developing sidewalks from the subdivision entrance on down toward the railroad
tracks.
Council Member Yeager stated that sidewalks would provide access to the
Banklick Woods Park, just up and over the railroad tracks. Mr. Berling
commented that the Scheben Group does not own the property along there. Mr.
Deters asked if the Planning Commission has approved the preliminary plat. Mr.
Berling stated it has and that he is before council to discuss the sidewalk
concerns on Independence Station Road. Council Member Franzen suggested that
the property owners along the road be required to install sidewalks. Mayor
Moriconi stated that Mr. Berling was present to discuss the concerns that were
raised at the last caucus meeting. Council Member Behler asked if the city
might install sidewalks in the future. Mayor Moriconi stated he does not
foresee this as the railroad crossing only has warning lights in that area. Mr.
Berling stated they would work with Kenton County on the necessary road
improvements in the area. Mayor Moriconi asked how long this development would
take to construct. Mr. Berling responded five to six years. Council Member
Franzen stated that she has concerns that someone would be struck by a car.
Discussion to Amend Ordinance No. 2000-O-02 Relating to Compensation of Elected
Officials
Mr. Deters stated that he was absent from last month’s caucus meeting when this
matter was initially introduced. He asked council what their desire was
regarding this legislation. Council Members Yeager and Ketron advised that
council discussed amending Ordinance No. 2000-O-02 to eradicate the scheduled
increase in compensation for council members that will become effective on
March 1,2004. Mayor Moriconi stated that keeping the current compensation is an
effort by council to cut back expenses due to budget constraints. Mr. Deters
advised that he will research the statutes, but stated that he has misgivings
that this ordinance is constitutional. He stated he would review and prepare a
proposal for an amendment.
Discussion Regarding Bids Received for the Sale of 68-A Oby Drive
Mayor Moriconi advised the city received two bids last week for city owned
property located at 68-A Oby Drive. The bids received were from Seaward and
Lori Padilla, 1866 Freedom Trail in the amount of $11,888 and Russell K.
Holloway, 68 Oby Drive in the amount of $1,601. Mayor Moriconi advised that the
award of this bid would be on the July 7, 2003 council meeting agenda.
Mr. Padilla addressed council regarding two concerns. He reported that Mr.
Holloway has cleared his property that adjoins the city lot and stacked the
trees and foliage onto the lot he has bid on. He stated he would like this
debris removed prior to the closing. Secondly he stated that he would like to
know the exact boundary lines of this property and therefore is willing to
assume the cost of having the land surveyed. He stated that if Mr. Holloway has
stepped over those boundary lines and bulldozed the trees and vegetation on the
city property he would like council to address that situation and replace the
trees that were destroyed. Mr. Padilla submitted photos of the land area that
Mr. Holloway has bulldozed for council’s inspection. Mr. Deters asked if the
trees stumps were also uprooted. Mr. Padilla replied yes.
Mr. Holloway responded by stating the area he cleared is within the boundary
lines of his property. He stated he would remove the debris when the area
dries. He stated the trees he removed were scrub trees and full of poison ivy.
He stated that this city owned property has never been maintained in the four
years he has lived there.
Mr. Padilla stressed that he would like the land cleared of any debris that may
have been stacked on this property prior to a closing with the city. Mr. Deters
advised that the area will be inspected and a contingency will be included in
the contract if necessary for the removal of the cleared trees and vegetation.
Mayor Moriconi reiterated that council would take action to award this bid at
the July 7th meeting.
Presentation by Barry Burke of NKAPC Regarding Proposed Street Name Changes
Mr. Burke stated that he was the Deputy Director of Engineering and Inspection
Services with the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission. He stated that
the recent state and county road realignments and improvements have resulted in
the formation of many spurs or remnant streets. Mr. Burke advised that it is
the governing body’s responsibility to approve re-addressing changes that are
necessary to provide for public safety for the residents.
The following streets have been identified as problems affecting traffic safety
and property locations:
1.   Hogreffe Road – The spelling has been revised to spell Hogreffe with one
‘f’ (Hogrefe)
2.   Old Bristow Road – This spur has resulted with the realignment of State
Route 536. Another street in the Battleridge Subdivision intersects to the west
enabling an existing street name (Battleridge Drive) to replace that portion of
Old Bristow Road. The affected residents in both Kenton County and Independence
will be surveyed for their input regarding a new road name. Battleridge Drive
will be suggested.
3.   Cody Road & Troopers Crossing – This area of Cody Road was relocated due
to a new subdivision collector street extension. The result has been two street
names and conflicting addressing (both odd and even numbers) along the same
sides of the road. The road in this area was widened which provided needed
improvement. Cody Road is county-maintained. City is being asked to re-name
this portion of Cody Road to Troopers Crossing. Additionally, the house numbers
will need to be changed.
4.   Pelly Road – The relocation of State Route 17 has created three separate
segments of the original unsegmented Pelly Road. It is recommended that on two
of the segments that the residents be surveyed to gain their input.
5.   Relocated Kentucky State Route 17 – Rename the new State Route 17
Alternate to the William W. Bowdy Highway in recognition of Mr. Bowdy’s thirty-
seven years of service to the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission and
his leadership in the planning for the future needs of Kenton County. Mr. Bowdy
recently retired from NKAPC. Each city that a portion of the highway passes
through has been notified of this new designation and since no resistance has
been received NKAPC will move forward at the District level. This should
resolve the naming of the various State Route 17 segments from Hands Pike to
the existing Pelly Road.
Council Member Behler asked if the surveys sent to the residents would explain
that it was necessary to re-naming the streets to avoid public safety concerns.
Mr. Burke stated that an explanation would be given to the residents.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the section of Cody Road near the creek/train overpass
would be permanently closed. Mr. Burke replied that the matter of closing the
area is still under discussion.
Council Member Ketron asked if the section of Cody Road was renamed Troopers
Crossing if Kenton County would continue to maintain the entire roadway. Mr.
Burke replied that the county would still maintain the street, as well as the
other county maintained streets that run throughout the city. Additionally, he
stated that signs would be posted.
Mr. Burke advised that changing street name is never popular with the
residents, but he stated, it is necessary to resolve public safety problems, as
well as plan for future growth and avoid duplications. When the results of the
surveys are compiled and recommendations will be forwarded to council for
consideration and endorsement.
Zone Change Request for 12.7 Acres at Senour Road and Mohawk Lane
Mr. Jerry F. Keith, on behalf of Tim Reese, addressed council regarding a
proposed zone change request for 12.7 acres from R-1C to R-1D at the southeast
corner of Senour Road and Mohawk Lane. Mr. Keith advised council that the
preliminary plat for this development has received recommendation for approval
from the Kenton County Planning Commission. He stated that the R-1D zone would
permit seventy-foot lots, which are more appealing to developers. Mr. Keith
added that intersection improvements are planned that will widen Senour Road to
twenty-two feet. This development will provide for thirty-nine lots that will
interconnect with Clover Ridge Subdivision located to the south of this site.
He stated that this development would also open Mohawk Lane to sanitary sewer
lines, which will benefit the residents in the area. Mr. Keith asked council to
take the initial step to approve this zone change at the July 7th council
meeting with final approval at a special meeting prior to the caucus meeting on
July 21, 2003. Mayor Moriconi stated that an ordinance approving this map
amendment would be presented to council for consideration at the July 7th
meeting.
Senior/Community Center Rental Agreement Update
Ms. Joan Bowling submitted to council the Senior/Community Center rental
agreement indicating some proposed revisions. She stated she has also made some
revisions to the Center’s information pamphlet adding the hours of operation
and rental availability. She stated that Monday through Thursday the Seniors
occupy the entire building from 9:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m., although this may
vary. She stated that she does not get many requests for rentals during daytime
hours. Council Member Yeager commented that the seniors should have exclusive
daytime use Monday through Friday. Council Member Behler suggested that Ms.
Bowling exercise her judgment to allow use of the facility by others when
seniors will not be using it. Council Member Yeager asked if the Center would
be providing lunches to the seniors five days a week. Ms. Bowling stated that
was yet to be determined. Mayor Moriconi asked who should approve this rental
agreement. Mr. Deters advised that approval of the rental agreement should be
approved by whoever operates the Center. Council Member Yeager stated the
Center is a joint effort by the city and the Board of Directors. Mr. Deters
advised that both should approve the rental agreement. Mayor Moriconi advised
that council would take action on the revised rental agreement at the July 7,
2003 council meeting.
Discussion Regarding the Waiver of a Sidewalk Installation at 619 Independence
Station Road
Mr. Deters explained to council that in 1994 an application was submitted to
the Planning Commission requesting that a waiver for the installation of a
sidewalk be granted to the owner of 619 Independence Station Road. He stated
that the Planning Commission did not take action on this request. He stated
that the owner, Mr. Enzweiler has not been able to obtain a permanent
Certificate of Occupancy because the sidewalk was never installed. Mr. Deters
advised that this situation could be remedied by either re-applying to the
Planning Commission to request the waiver of this subdivision regulation or
request a variance from the city Board of Adjustment.
Mr. Enzweiler stated that everything was approved in 1994 and it was determined
that a sidewalk was not feasible due to the slope of the land. He stated this
issued resurfaced when it came time to obtain a Certificate of Occupancy. He
stated he has discussed this with the staff at Area Planning, who claim this is
a matter the city will need to decide. Mr. Deters responded that the Board of
Adjustment would then need to grant a variance. Mr. Enzweiler stated that the
engineering department at the Planning Commission does not feel that is
necessary and is of the opinion that the city council can grant this waiver.
Mr. Deters stated that the process to apply for a waiver is stated in the
subdivision regulations.
Mr. Deters advised Mr. Enzweiler that he should have no problem in getting the
Planning Commission to review this matter and make comment. Then he can proceed
to apply for a variance from the Board of Adjustment. Mr. Deters advised
council that Mr. Enzweiler has received from the city a temporary Certificate
of Occupancy, but must resolve this sidewalk matter in order to obtain a
permanent certificate.
Business of the Month for July
Council Member Franzen stated that she has chosen Hottees Silk Screen Design
and Apparel, located on Madison Pike, to be recognized at the July meeting.
Speeding on Oby Drive Update
Police Chief Butler reported that after reviewing the situation on Oby Drive,
he has determined that installing a stop sign midway on Oby Drive does not
follow the manual on uniform traffic control. He stated that council can
override this, but he is concerned that the city would be setting precedent by
installing a sign in the middle of a street that does not intersect with
another street. He recommends that the city install a “Children at Play” sign,
continue radar, and the city approve the purchase of a removable speed bump,
which could be used in other areas of the city as well, when speeding
complaints are received. He stated that a stop sign would only temporarily slow
the drivers but eventually they would just roll right through it. He stated
that in the long term the cost of the removable speed bumps would be cheaper
than paying patrol officers overtime pay. Consensus from council was to take
Chief’s Butler’s recommendation and approve the purchase of the removable speed
bumps.
Mayor’s Comments - Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated that he has received suggestions from some council
members to replace the current budget format with a user-friendlier one,
similar to that used by the Independence Fire District. He advised that he
would take it under consideration and evaluate a new format.
Discussion Relating to the Initiation of a new Commodities Program
Council Member Yeager stated that she has learned that the Southern Kenton
County area does not have a commodities program and would like to see the city
become involved in the distribution of available commodities. She stated that
she would need to find someone willing to pick up the food to be distributed in
Independence. Council Member Franzen suggested that one of the local churches
might provide space for the distribution. Council Member Yeager stated the food
would be picked up on Monday and distributed on Tuesday. There were suggestions
that the distribution could take place at the Senior/Community Center.
Discussion Relating to Zoning for Sexually Oriented Businesses
Council Member Bushong inquired about the status of designating a city zone for
sexually oriented businesses. Mr. Deters advised that Area Planning is working
on a proposal. The City Clerk stated the city is taking part in a regional
feasibility study that will review the Northern Kentucky area for possible
locations for these types of businesses so that each city does not have to have
a zone. Council Member Bushong stated that the “community area” idea is being
challenged in other areas and commented that it should be a city’s decision
where to locate this type of zone. Mayor Moriconi commented that right now the
city is wide-open, since no such zone has been designated by the city. Mr.
Deters stated this is not new ground and advised he would investigate the
situation.
Discussion Relating to Crowe Road
Council Member Behler asked if the city engineer had provided the city with an
assessment of the deteriorating Crowe Road and given possible recommendations
to correct this problem. Council Member Franzen stated she has inspected the
area and stated that the most cost-effective solution for the city may be to
buyout the property owners. Mayor Moriconi advised he would look into this
matter.
Discussion Relating to Personnel Matters
Council Member Behler asked if the city employees were clear about the
additional duties they would be asked to take on with the elimination of the
city administrator position. Mayor Moriconi informed council that he would
issue an official memo explaining the division of duties.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved with second by
Council Member Franzen to adjourn. The meeting ended at 9:07 p.m.
                  _______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
___________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
JUNE 16, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special
Session on Monday, June 13, 2003 at 6:30 p.m. in the Independence Senior
Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding in the
Chair. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. The roll was called and the
following council members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim Ellison was
absent. Also present was Jed K. Deters, City Attorney.
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   Adopting a Budget for the fiscal year 2003/04 – Ordinance No. 2003-O-06
∙   Resolution No. 2003-R-15 – Ratifying the Mayor’s Decision to Non-renew the
Contract of Mark T. Wendling, City Administrator
Ordinance No. 2003-O-06 – Adopting a Budget for the 2003/04 Fiscal Year
3.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading proposed
Ordinance No. 2003-O-06 that would adopt a city budget for the 2003/04 fiscal
year. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2003-O-06. Council Member Franzen moved
with second by Council Member Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2003-O-06. Council
Member Behler questioned if it would be necessary to change the salaries line
item to take out the wages budgeted for a city administrator. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the adjustment could be made later on in the fiscal year. The City
Clerk explained that since the amount budgeted for administration salaries
would not exceed the amount in this proposed budget that the revision could be
noted when the budget is amended. There being no further discussion, the roll
was called and answered with four yeas and one no vote cast by Council Member
Behler. Motion carried 4-1.
Resolution No. 2003-R-15 – Ratifying Mayor Moriconi’s Decision to Non-Renew the
Contract of the City Administrator, Mark T. Wendling
4.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a resolution that would support his
decision to not renew the employment contract of City Administrator, Mark
Wendling. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2003-R-15.
5.   Council Member Yeager moved to approve Resolution No. 2003-R-15, seconded
by Council Member Bushong. Council Member Yeager commented that she hates to
see anyone lose their job, but given the current budgetary constraints, she
supported the Mayor’s decision to non-renew Mr. Wendling’s contract. Council
Member Behler asked if Mr. Wendling would be receiving four months of severance
pay as specified in his contract. Mr. Deters advised that the four months of
severance pay that is referred to in his employment contract was to be paid if
he was terminated for cause prior to June 30, 2003. He stated that basically
Mayor Moriconi has opted to non-renew Mr. Wendling’s contract. Council Member
Behler stated she did not understand the reason council should vote to approve
this non-renewal if this is the Mayor’s choice. Mr. Deters explained that even
though the Mayor has the authority to terminate Mr. Wendling’s employment, the
fact that he had an employment agreement is a gray area, and that by ratifying
the Mayor’s decision both legislative and executive branches would be
integrated. Council Member Franzen expressed concern regarding the continuation
of medical insurance coverage for Mr. Wendling and asked if he would be
eligible for COBRA. Mr. Deters stated that he would, and advised that he wanted
to discuss this in detail in an executive session. Roll call was answered with
four yes votes and one no vote cast by Council Member Behler.
Executive Session
6.   Council Member Bushong moved to enter into executive session in accordance
with K.R.S. 61.810 (f) to discuss a personnel matter pertaining to an employee
dismissal, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
7.   Council Member Bushong moved to return to regular session, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
8.   It was announced that no action was taken.
Adjournment
9.   Upon motion by Council Member Franzen and second by Council Member Bushong
the meeting adjourned. Motion carried unanimously and the meeting ended at 7:00
p.m.
_______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
City of Independence, Kentucky
Attest:
____________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky.
July 7, 2003
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July
7, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Randy McCafferty of the Independence
Christian Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol
Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed
Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Ellison had selected State Farm
Insurance, Agent Greg Wermuth as recipient of the Business of the Month tribute
for June. Since Mr. Wermuth was unable to attend the June meeting, he was
invited to this meeting and Mayor Moriconi presented him with the plaque. Mr.
Wermuth thanked Mayor Moriconi and Council and commented that he has operated
his business out of the same location on Madison Pike since 1979 and has seen
many changes in the city over the years.
3.   Mayor Moriconi presented Hot Tees Silk Screen Design and Apparel with the
July Business of the Month award. Mr. Pat Bradley thanked Council Member
Franzen for selecting Hot Tees as this month’s recipient as Business of the
Month. He stated Hot Tees specializes in business and team apparel, as well as
embroidery design. He stated they have been in operation for three years and
hope to be in business a long time.
Approval of the Minutes of the June 2, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the June 2,
2003 regular meeting of council. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
from Council Member Ketron. One correction was noted and approved and roll call
was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the June 16, 2003 Special Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the June 16,
2003 Special meeting of council. Council Member Bushong moved, with second from
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted and motion carried with five
ayes and one pass from Council Member Ellison.
Approval of the Minutes of the June 16, 2003 Caucus Council Meeting
6.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the June 16,
2003 caucus meeting of council. Council Member Yeager moved, with second from
Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted and motion carried with five
ayes and one pass from Council Member Ellison.
Privileges of the Floor
7.   Sherry Carran, 927 Forest Avenue, Covington, Kentucky addressed council
with her concerns regarding the planned development by Jim Berling known as
Canberra Ridge Subdivision, to be located off of Independence Station Road
contiguous with Banklick Creek and Brushy Fork Creek. She suggested an
alternative development plan that would decrease the number of homes by twelve,
thereby allow the storm water runoff to be controlled in a more natural way and
would conserve the environmental characteristics of this area. She stated her
plan would allow for a buffer along the Brushy Fork Creek area, but would be
more costly for the developer. Council Member Behler asked if Ms. Carran was
asking council to delay taking action to approve this development plan. Ms.
Carran stated that Mr. Berling has stated the city is not open to this kind of
development. Mayor Moriconi stated that a twenty-foot wide conservation
easement is one of the Planning Commission’s staff recommendations conditions
for approval of the plan. Council Member Behler commented that the Planning
Commission confirms that this planned development conforms to the Comprehensive
Plan. Ms. Carran maintained that this development plan can be improved upon and
would like the opportunity to show council how well a planned urban development
(PUD) can establish a more desirable and nature friendly environment. Mayor
Moriconi advised that the council would have a first reading tonight on an
ordinance to approve this development and that the matter could be discussed
further at the July 21, 2003 caucus meeting. Ms. Carran stated she would
provide Mr. Berling with her suggested alternatives to his development plan so
that he could review here proposal. Council Member Ellison commented that Ms.
Carran has apparently done her homework on this matter and feels she is
knowledgeable on natural conversation issues.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-07 – Glenhurst Subdivision Zone Change Request for 130
Acres – 2nd Reading
8.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Ordinance No. 2003-O-07 for a second
reading. He stated this ordinance would accept the recommendation of the Kenton
County Planning Commission to approve a request by Glenhurst Development
Company for a map amendment to the city zoning ordinance changing an
approximate 130-acre area located at the terminus of Hogreffe Road from A-1, R-
1B, R-1C, R-1D and I-1 to R-1D (PUD) subject to certain conditions. City
Attorney, Mr. Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance.
9.   Council Member Bushong moved for a second reading of Ordinance No. 2003-O-
07, seconded by Council Member Ellison. Mr. Ellison asked if the proposed
spelling of Hogreffe Road, to delete one of the ‘f’s has taken effect. Mr.
Deters stated the street name spelling has not been changed yet. Council Member
Ellison suggested the spelling be corrected before this is printed. Roll call
was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 – Establishing the Time of 11:00 A.M. for Liquor Sales
– 2nd Reading
10.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 for a second
reading. He advised this ordinance would establish the time of 11:00 a.m. as
the time that liquor and malt beverages may begin being sold and served on
Sunday within the city limits. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
11.   Council Member Ellison moved to approve Ordinance No. 2003-O- 08 as read,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member
Ketron stated that he has considered this matter and agrees with Council Member
Franzen. He commented that a primary reason for liquor sales to begin after 1:
00 p.m. on Sunday was the effect it would have on churches. Council Member
Behler stated she also opposed this time change, but for different reasons and
stated she would not vote to enact this time change. Mayor Moriconi advised
that the time change was a request by the Kenton County Golf Course. Council
Member Ketron commented that this ordinance opens up the sales to every place
that holds a liquor license, not just the golf course. Council Member Bushong
stated that he feels the same, but that other cities, such as Covington and
Taylor Mill, are passing similar ordinances that permit the 11:00 a.m. liquor
sales. Roll call was answered with three yes votes and three no votes; Mayor
Moriconi cast the tie-breaking vote by voting in favor. Motion carried 4-3.
Resolution No. 2003-R-16 – Accepting the Bid of Seaward and Lori Padilla for
the Purchase of 68-A Oby Drive and Authorizing the Mayor to Enter into a
Purchase Contract and Execute a Quit Claim Deed
12.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-16 accepting
the bid of Seaward and Lori Padilla, 1866 Freedom Trail, Independence, in the
amount of $11,888.00 for the purchase from the city the approximate 1.23-acre
parcel known as 68-A Oby Drive. The resolution authorizes Mayor Moriconi to
enter into a purchase contract and execute the Quit Claim Deed. Mr. Padilla
commented that he has had the property surveyed at his expense and advised that
the majority of the trees that Mr. Holloway had cleared from his adjoining
property have been cleared away. He stated he would like a couple of the trees
replaced but does not want to squabble over this minor issue. Mayor Moriconi
asked Mr. Padilla if he was ready to proceed with the purchase of this parcel.
Mr. Padilla stated he was. Mr. Russell Holloway, the adjoining property owner
confirmed that he has cleared the area of the trees he removed as evident in
the photos he presented a week ago. Mr. Jed Deters stated he has inspected the
parcel and found that it look as if the debris had been cleared. Mr. Deters
also advised that the proposed contract allows sixty days, which is plenty of
time to resolve any lingering issues. Mr. Padilla stated that he was willing to
proceed with the purchase of this property.
13.   Council Member Franzen moved with second by Council Member Yeager to
approve Resolution No. 2003-R-16. Council Member Bushong asked if it was the
city’s place to be the intermediary of this dispute between Mr. Holloway and
Mr. Padilla. Mr. Deters advised that since the city is selling this property it
is in the interest of the city to settle any outstanding issues related to this
property. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
14.   Mr. Holloway asked if the property would now become a parcel of Freedom
Trail, as there is no access directly from Oby Drive. Mr. Deters stated it
might have to be combined with Mr. Padilla’s property for access purposes. Mr.
Padilla stated he has no plans for making improvements to this parcel other
than a privacy fence, fire pit and perhaps a shed. He went on to say that he
became interested in purchasing the property when rumors began circulating that
Mr. Holloway was planning to build a large garage on it and the Freedom Trail
residents feared that would destroy the natural environment of the area.
Resolution No. 2003-R-17 – Granting a Sidewalk Waiver for 619 Independence
Station Road
15.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-17 that would
grant a waiver for the requirement for the construction of a sidewalk along the
area of 619 Independence Station Road. The owner,    Louis Enzweiler has been
denied a permanent Certificate of Occupancy, as the sidewalk was not
constructed in front of his residence in accordance with subdivision
regulations. The owner contends the severe slope of the terrain makes
compliance with this regulation difficult.
16.   Council Member Ketron moved with second by Council Member Ellison to
approve Resolution No. 2003-R-17. Council Member Behler asked what the Kenton
County Planning Commission meant when they denied to comment on the matter. Mr.
Deters stated, exactly that that it is their position that this is a decision
to be made by the city. Rolled was taken and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2003-R-18 – Approving the Senior/Community Center Rental
Agreement
17.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-18 that would
accept and approve the rental agreement for the Independence Senior Citizens
and Community Center. Council Member Bushong moved with second by Council
Member Yeager to approve Resolution No. 2003-R-18. Roll called was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – 1st Reading to Approve a Zoning Map Amendment Requested by
Independence Station Road LLC for a 50-Acre Area North of Independence Station
Road
18.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would
approve a map amendment for an approximate 50-acre parcel north of Independence
Station Road contiguous to the west with Banklick Creek and northeast with
Brushy Fork Creek. The proposed map amendment would rezone the area from R-1A
to R-1C. Mayor Moriconi advised this would be the first reading of the first
reading. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi invited Mr.
Berling to attend the July 21, 2003 caucus meeting to answer any questions
council may have.
Proposed Ordinance – 1st Reading to approve a Zoning Text Amendment adding
Religious Worship Institutions as a Conditional Use in the NC (Neighborhood
Commercial) Zone
19.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would
approve a text amendment to the city zoning ordinance, Section 10.14 adding
churches and other buildings for religious worship, teaching and education as a
conditional use in the neighborhood commercial zone. Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised that council would consider this
ordinance at the August 4, 2003 meeting for a second reading and adoption.
Proposed Ordinance – 1st Reading to Approve a Map Amendment for 12.7 Acres
along Senour Road and Mohawk Lane
20.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that
would approve a map amendment changing an approximate 12.7 acre parcel located
at the southeast corner of the intersection of Senour road with Mohawk Lane
from R-1C to R-1D on the condition that the density of the site not exceed a
maximum density of 3.8 dwelling units per acre
21.   Mr. Jerry Keith addressed council with a request to hold a special
meeting prior to the July 21 caucus meeting in order to have a second reading
and adoption of this amendment to the zoning map. He stated that he makes this
request so that a closing date for the purchase of the property can be
scheduled. . Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
22.   Council discussed Mr. Keith’s request for a special meeting prior the
caucus meeting and agreed to hold a special meeting at 6:45 p.m. on July 21,
2003 to take action on this map amendment. Council Member Yeager suggested
placing on the special meeting agenda the other proposed ordinances. Mayor
Moriconi stated since there were several pending ordinances that he felt it in
the best interest of the city to maintain the normal timeframe to consider
them.
Proposed Ordinance – 1st Reading to Approve a Text Amendment Relating to the
Definition of “Family” and Relating to Manufactured Housing
23.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a first reading of an ordinance that
would approve a text amendment to the Zoning Ordinance that 1) deletes the
existing definition(s) of “family” and adds a new definition of “family”; and
2) adds compatibility standards for qualified manufactured housing along with
various cross references in other sections of the zoning ordinance. Mr. Deters
read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi stated this would be presented at
the August 4, 2003 council meeting for a second reading and adoption.
Proposed Ordinance – 1st Reading Regarding Compensation for Elected Officials
24.   Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed ordinance that effectively amends
Ordinance 2000-O-02 pertaining to compensation for elected city officials. He
stated that proposal eliminates the CPI (consumer price index) salary increases
as directed by council, which were scheduled to take effect on March 2004. Mr.
Deters read the proposed ordinance for the first time. Mayor Moriconi stated
this ordinance would have a second reading at the August 4, 2003 council
meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – 1st Reading Adopting the Updated Employee Pay Plan
25.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading an ordinance that
would update the current employee pay plan. He stated that the pay plan should
have been amended and enacted in correlation with the annual budget but was
overlooked. Council Member Franzen motioned, that since this is two months
behind, that perhaps council should consider adopting this by one, emergency
reading. Mr. Deters advised that he did not believe tardiness would qualify as
an acceptable reason to waive the second reading of this ordinance. Mayor
Moriconi expressed concern that by not enacting this ordinance on an emergency
basis that it may prevent employee raises that went into effect July 1 as
prescribed in the budget ordinance that was passed in June. Council Member
Franzen felt it would not be fair to the employees to delay their pay raises.
Council Member Yeager expressed concern for the minimum pay rate for some
positions. Chief Butler advised that the city adopts a range as guidelines and
that the 2003/04 salary increases are within the range. Council Member Yeager
also questioned why the Building Inspector, who is a contract employee, is
listed on the pay plan. The City Clerk stated that the pay plan lists all
positions for which the city has a job description. Council Member Ketron
pointed out that the position of City Administrator was omitted from the pay
plan submitted. Council Member Yeager voiced concern that she felt some of the
positions had high minimum rates and asked if a new employee would be paid the
minimum in the range for the position. Chief Butler replied yes. Council Member
Franzen maintained that since the pay range is a guideline for salaries and
that the employee raises have been adopted with the 2003/04 budget she saw no
reason to delay adopting the pay plan until August. She advised the pay plan
was adopted last year by an emergency reading of the ordinance. Council Member
Ellison stated that he did not see a reason to rush this through. He commented
that the seasonal positions that receive an hourly rate should be so noted on
the pay plan, that it is hourly and not an annual amount like the permanent,
full time positions.
26.   Council Member Behler suggested the pay plan could be discussed further
at the July 21 caucus meeting. Council Member Franzen withdrew her motion to
have an emergency reading of the proposed ordinance. Mr. Deters commented that
he would continue with the first reading of this ordinance and the see what
transpires at the caucus meeting discussion on this subject. Council Member
Yeager commented that she just wants the pay plan to be correct before adopting
it. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Resolution No. 2003-R-19 – Authorizing the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission to Proceed with the Proposed Street Name Changes
27.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-19 supporting
and authorizing the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission staff to proceed
with proposed street/road name and address clarifications or changes
necessitated by new developments within the city and county. Mr. Deters read
the Resolution 2003-R-19 as presented. Mr. Deters advised that Planning
Commission requested this resolution of support and stated that the street/road
name and address changes was necessary from a public emergency safety and
traffic concern perspectives.
28.   Council Member Bushong moved with second by Council Member Yeager to
approve Resolution No. 2003-R-19 as read. Roll call was answered unanimously;
motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2003-R-20 – Supporting an Emergency Medical Services Taxes
Referendum
29.   Mayor Moriconi presented for council consideration Resolution No. 2003-R-
20 that would support an EMS (Emergency Medical Services) tax referendum. He
advised that the Kenton County Fiscal Court has requested each city to support
their effort to enact a special ad valorem tax, subject to public referendum,
of two and one-half cents ($0.025) cents per $100 of assessed value on all real
property. He said the additional revenue would help meet the funding demands
and continue a high level of emergency medical services. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2003-R-20.
30.   Council Member Bushong moved to approve Resolution No. 2003-R-20 as
presented with second by Council Member Behler. A brief discussion ensued.
Council Member Bushong asked if the increased tax was necessitated due to poor
handling of the ALS communication. Chief Butler responded that $600,000 will be
used for ALS needs with the remainder of the revenue to fund the BLS system
throughout the county. He stated that the county has not decided how the added
$1,200,000 will be divided. Mayor Moriconi commented that ultimately the
residents of Kenton County would decide in November whether or not they want to
support this tax. Chief Butler stated that if this tax is voted down at the
polls the county will cut emergency personnel staff. Roll call was answered
with five yes votes and one no vote cast by Council Member Ellison. Motion
carried 5-1.
Lease-Purchase Agreement with Fifth Third Bank for Police Cruisers
31.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposal with Fifth Third Bank for
the purchase of police cruisers in the amount of $86,936.00 to be paid over a
three-year period. He requested that council authorize him to enter into this
contract. Chief Butler stated that the 2003/04 budget that was passed in June
allotted funds for the lease-purchase of four new police cruisers. He stated
the city would realize a slight savings at the low interest rate of 2.940%. He
also advised that the bank requires council approval for the Mayor to sign this
proposal.
32.   Council Member Bushong so moved with second by Council Member Franzen.
Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor’s Report
33.   Mayor Moriconi thanked the city staff and the many volunteers who helped
make the July 4th Celebration successful. He stated that since the fireworks
display was abruptly cancelled due to the onset of a thunderstorm, plans are
being made to re-schedule the fireworks display along with a free concert at
the opening of the Memorial Park Amphitheater in mid to late September.
34.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Chief Butler would be awarded the Police
Chief of the Year at the Northern Kentucky Area Development District’s annual
awards dinner that is scheduled for August 18, 2003. He also announced that the
department was won an award for the RAD program.
35.   Mayor Moriconi announced that the summer basketball camp was a success
with over 100 children attending. He stated the camp was held at Summit View
School.
36.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the city has received a tentative bid for the
amphitheater parking lot. He advised that Kenton County and city Public Works
employees would supply all equipment and man-hours.
37.   Mayor Moriconi reported that an update regarding the deteriorating
condition of Crowe Road would be announced at the caucus meeting. In closing,
he reported that Clubhouse Drive road repairs are progressing.
Executive Session
38.   Council Member Bushong made a motion to enter into executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation. Motion carried
with all ayes.
39.   Upon motion by Council Member Ellison and second by Council Member
Franzen council returned to regular session. Motion carried with all ayes.
40.   Mayor Moriconi announced that no action was taken in executive session.
Adjournment
41.   There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved with second
by Council Member Bushong to adjourn. The meeting adjourned at 8:21 p.m.
_____________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 21, 2003
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special
Session on Monday, July 21, 2003 at 6:45 p.m. in the Independence Senior
Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding in the
Chair. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. The roll was called and the
following council members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim
Ellison, Carol Franzen, Otis Ketron and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for the
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   Discussion and possible action approving a map amendment for 12.7 acres at
Senour Road and Mohawk Lane. – Ordinance No. 2003-0-09- Second Reading.
∙   Discussion and possible action on updating the employee pay plan. –
Ordinance No. 2003-0-10.
∙   Executive Session (if necessary)
Ordinance No. 2003-0-09 – Approving Map Amendment for 12.7 Acres at Senour Road
and Mohawk Lane –From R-1C to R-1D - Second Reading
3.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading a proposed
ordinance that would approve a zoning map amendment for a 12.7 acre parcel
located at Senour Road and Mohawk Lane from an R-1C to R-1D zone. Mayor
Moriconi asked for a motion on this second reading of Ordinance No. 2003-0-09.
Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by Council Member Ketron.
4.   A brief discussion ensued wherein Council Member Yeager would like to make
certain there are two (2) egresses. Mr. Jerry Keith a representative for
Centerline Development responded to Council Member Yeager’s concern by advising
that the preliminary plan provides for one connector to Senour Road with
another route connecting through the Clover Ridge Subdivision.
5.   Council Member Jim Ellison voiced concerns that he would like this
development to provide widening of Senour Road with a left turn lane. He stated
that the Kenton County Planning Commission’s recommendation discusses this
condition but does not make a recommendation for it. Mr. Keith advised they
discussed a tapered lane, but that the plan was approved with a full
deceleration lane and widening of Senour Road. Council Member Ellison commented
that he feels that Planning Commission’s recommendation was unclear and did not
specify which condition was required. He stated that he wanted the conditions
to widen Senour Road, add a full deceleration lane and install sidewalks to be
a requirement for this map amendment.
6.   Attorney Jed Deters advised Council that he did not feel these changes
were significant enough to affect the second reading of this ordinance. Council
Members Bushong and Ketron agreed to amend their motion and second to include
Council Member Ellison’s recommendations. Mr. Deters read the ordinance in
summary to include Mr. Ellison’s recommendations. Roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2003-0-10 – Updating the Employee Pay Plan- Second Reading
7.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for second reading a proposed
ordinance that would update the employee pay plan. Council Member Franzen so
moved with second by Council Member Bushong. Council Member Franzen suggested
that the Administration Secretary and Police Clerk pay ranges should be the
same. Council Member Franzen stated that she has also been doing some research
with other cities regarding the pay ranges of public works and recreation
employees. Council Member Franzen believes that the Recreation Director should
be increased slightly and recommended a maximum of $36,000 opposed to the
existing $32,000. Council Member Behler suggested including the Deputy City
Clerk and Assistant City Clerk positions in this adjustment. Council Member
Ketron asked how these ranges would affect the current salaries. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the ranges in the salary pay plan are amended each year to
coincide with the pay raises. Chief Butler suggested increasing each range by
3% across the board. Council Member Ketron suggested indicating “hourly” on the
seasonal employee ranges in the Public Works and Recreation Departments.
Council Member Ellison stated that he would like the City Administrator
position to remain on the pay plan. Council Member Ketron concurred stating
that if the City Administrator position was re-established at a later time by
the Mayor that a range would be in place to use as a guideline for the salary.
Mayor Moriconi stated that none of this affects the current year’s budget. Mr.
Deters read ordinance 2003-0-10. Roll call was answered unanimously and the
motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
8.   Upon motion by Council Member Jim Ellison and second by Council Member
Donna Yeager the meeting was adjourned at 7:01 p.m.
______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
City of Independence, Kentucky
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
____________________________________
Linda K. Fender, Secretary
City of Independence, Ky.
July 21, 2003
City of Independence, Ky.
Council Caucus Meeting Minutes
Opening:
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 21,
2003 at 7:02 p.m. in the Independence Senior and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol
Franzen, Otis Ketron, and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Public Comments on the Mr. Jeff Jarboe’s Request for a Zoning Text Amendment
Adding Professional Offices as a Conditional Use in the R-1C Zone
Mayor Moriconi addressed the large audience present to speak on behalf of Mr.
Jarboe’s request for a zoning text amendment that would provide for
professional offices as a conditional use in the R-1C zone. He advised that
each person would be give a three minute time limit to make their comments
Jeanne Cooper, 14816 Decoursey Pike, Covington, Kentucky, commented that Jeff
Jarboe is trustworthy and reliable and very committed to the community. He
supports the peewee football program as well as Simon Kenton High School
football program. His Pioneer Tax Service has a great location and a booming
business. She will continue to support Jeff Jarboe and she’s asking that the
city do the same.
Lisa Klein, 804 Cox Road, Independence, Kentucky, stated that Mr. Jarboe helped
her establish her business in Independence three years ago. She concurred with
Ms. Cooper that he helps with the community; he knows everyone and get things
done. Council Member Bushong asked what business Mrs. Klein was in; she stated
she owns a beauty shop.
Bill McCubbin, 3444 Senour Road, Independence, Kentucky, commented that Jeff
Jarboe, like his dad, is an important factor to the City. He stated that Mr.
Jarboe has helped non profit organizations with their tax service as well as
their professional finance services. Mr. McCubbin stated that Mr. Jarboe’s
property is well kept, not an eyesore, and believes he is an asset to the City
of Independence.
Carolyn Lovelidge, 11956 Bowman Road, Independence, Kentucky, commented that
she supports Jeff Jarboe who has been her tax consultant for about four (4)
years, since she relocated to Independence. She likes keeping her business in
her community. She stated that she likes that he supports the community; and
that he’s an asset and she doesn’t understand why everyone doesn’t recognize
this.
Leroy Lipport, 11956 Bowman Road, Independence, Kentucky, stated he moved here
a year ago, and was referred to Jeff Jarboe to do his taxes for his excavating
business, Mr. Jarboe has opened up many doors for him and he has seen the
contribution that Mr. Jarboe has made in the community. He stated that Mr.
Jarboe runs a good business and he’s an asset to this community. Mr. Lipport
urged council to allow Mr. Jarboe to remain in his current location.
Michael Ciminer, 226 Evergreen Drive, Southgate, Kentucky, stated that he owns
property in Kenton County, Red Road; and has maintained a working relationship
with Mr. Jarboe for the last ten (10) years as his accountant. He stated that
he fully supports Mr. Jarboe and feels he is an asset to the community.
Bobby Jo Callen, 6259 Johnstone Court, Burlington, Kentucky, stated she is a
mortgage consultant, and has referred many customers to Mr. Jarboe, who felt
very comfortable and convey they were treated fairly. Ms. Callen commented on
Mr. Jarboe’s nicely maintained property. She stated that Mr. Jarboe’s clients
come from Cincinnati, Indiana, and other areas in Kentucky, who in turn, refer
others to Mr. Jarboe and while his business is growing it is not too large. She
urged council to allow Mr. Jarboe to remain in his present location.
Glen Pennington, 1982 Whitaker Avenue, Ft. Mitchell, Kentucky, stated that
although he has just moved out of Independence, he had been a life long
resident of the city. He stated he has known Mr. Jarboe for well over 35 years.
Mr. Pennington stated he operates a business and does a lot of work in the
Kenton County and Independence area. He stated he is a member of the Northern
Kentucky Homebuilders Association and if not for Mr. Jarboe he would be in
financial ruin as he is a good craftsman but poor bookkeeper. He stated Mr.
Jarboe does great community service and has even named his own business after
the Simon Kenton Pioneers (Pioneer Tax Service). Mr. Pennington stated that he
feels it would be a big disservice to the City to have Mr. Jarboe shut down. In
closing he stated he supported Mr. Jarboe and urged council to permit him to
keep Pioneer Tax Service in the current location.
Charles Sadler, 2140 Hartland Blvd, Independence, Kentucky, commented that he
was here to voice his support for Mr. Jarboe. Mr. Sadler stated he cannot
understand why the city would want to take a small business out when there are
so few in the city. He stated he believes we need to bring more small
businesses in the city. In closing he stated he has lived in Independence for
five (5) years and really loves the city and would like to see more businesses.
Jack Benson, 3004 Belle Meade, Edgewood, Kentucky, advised he is a Certified
Public Accountant with a business office in Florence. He stated he was a
resident of Independence for 23 years and just recently moved to Edgewood. Mr.
Benson stated he supports Mr. Jarboe and Independence should be proud of Mr.
Jarboe. Mr. Benson stated that when he asked Jeff Jarboe why he operated his
business “way out” in Independence, Jeff just commented that he loves the city.
Mr. Benson urged council to support Mr. Jarboe at his current location.
Elise Averdick, 3685 Rector Road, Morningview, Kentucky, stated she is a
registered nurse and was able to venture into a Horse Stable business with Mr.
Jarboe’s assistance. She stated that Mr. Jarboe has helped her with her
father’s estate and her taxes. Ms. Averdick commented that Mr. Jarboe is also
very good at networking and he’s always trying to help. Mrs. Averdick stated
that she feels it would be a great loss if Mr. Jarboe is forced out of the
City.
Mickey McKnight, 3685 Rector Road, Morningview, Kentucky, lived in the
community for his entire life and urged council to support Mr. Jarboe.
Debbie Hollon, 15884 Elliott Road, Morningview, Kentucky, stated she supports
Mr. Jarboe who has been her personal accountant for years. She stated her
husband runs a small excavating company; Mr. Jarboe has been his accountant for
four (4) years now. Mrs. Hollon hates to see small businesses leave the city;
as she is aware of how difficult it is to get a small business started.
Julie Freimuth, 2343 Callant Road, Independence, Kentucky, stated that she has
been a friend of Mr. Jarboe for many years even before he became her tax
accountant. She commented that Mr. Jarboe has been a great asset to the
community. Ms. Freimuth reminded Council of the poor condition of the property
before Mr. Jarboe purchased it and made improvements.
Neva Gibson, 53 Alta Vista Drive, Walton, Kentucky, stated that she does sub-
contract work for Mr. Jarboe as she works from her home office in Ludlow. Mrs.
Gibson said that many people cannot afford to rent office space therefore they
run their business from there homes. She stated to go against Mr. Jarboe
because of the nature of his business would only hurt the city.
Old Business:
Proposed Text Amendment Adding Professional Offices as a Conditional Use in the
R-1C Zone as Requested by Jeff Jarboe
Mayor Moriconi advised council that the proposal before them was for a text
amendment that would permit professional offices, as a conditional use in the
R-1C zone. Mayor stated that Mr. Jarboe is looking for is some direction
regarding his request.
Council Member Franzen asked if this is the same situation as the zone change
that was requested by the Gibson’s earlier this year, when council was asked to
vote to either accept or not accept the recommendation of the Kenton County
Planning Commission. Mr. Deters stated that this is different, in that this is
a text amendment; whereas the Gibson’s were requesting a map amendment. Mr.
Deters advised that if council does nothing to override the Planning
Commission’s recommendation, then by law it will become effective. Mayor
Moriconi advised Council Member Franzen that if the city opts to override the
text amendment, then the city would be accepting it. He advised that the
Planning Commission has rejected Mr. Jarboe’s request for the proposed text
amendment. Council Member Yeager stated that the Planning Commission used the
word disapprove, but she’s not sure that they disapproved it. Mr. Ellison
stated that after reading the recommendation from the Planning Commission that
he is now more confused than ever. He stated that he feels the Planning
Commission has given conflicting information.
Mr. Dave Davidson, an attorney representing Mr. Jarboe, was present at the
meeting. He stated that the Planning Commission was not entirely clear as to
what they did and why. Mr. Davidson stated the Planning Commission was a
divided group as there were people who strongly supported Mr. Jarboe. He
believes that the Planning Commission perceives this as an individual, a small
property owner in the mist of commercial development. Mr. Davidson commented
that some members of the Commission thought it was unfair to Mr. Jarboe that it
must be a large development or nothing at all. He stated that Mr. Jarboe is in
that location as a means of convenience to benefit the citizens. Mr. Davidson
stated that Tim Theissen, Chairman of the Planning Commission was present at
the meeting with Area Planning Commission. Mr. Ellison stated that Mr. Theissen
made two (2) letters submitted as part of the record. Council Member Ellison
did not receive copies of these letters so is unaware of the content of the
letters. Council Member Yeager stated that Mr. Jarboe could have gone to the
Board of Adjustment and asked for a variance. Mr. Davidson explained why they
acted the way they did was as they were advised by Planning Commission staff
members to follow this procedure.  
Mayor Moriconi asked if there was anything more from Council like to being up.
Council Member Ellison stated he felt the city needed some answers from the
Planning Commission, as to whether Mr. Jarboe should apply for a zone change,
text or map amendment. Mr. Davidson stated that Mr. Jarboe did apply for a map
amendment, and it was tabled for six months. Mr. Davidson stated that in his
opinion the text amendment would work, as there are few (4) people that own
property in this small area, as the rest of the area is designated for
commercial use. Council Member Franzen asked how long Mr. Jarboe has been
operating there, he stated three (3) years in that location. Council Member
Bushong commented that the Planning Commission is rejecting the very proposal
they advised Mr. Jarboe submit.
Attorney, Frank Wichmann spoke on behalf of Mr. Jarboe stating that it would be
costly for Mr. Jarboe to relocate and questioned why the city would force an
upstanding member of the community to sell his property for less than the
replacement cost.  Mr. Wichmann suggested that if council did not oppose Mr.
Jarboe operating his business in its current location that they override the
Planning Commission’s recommendation and approves the text amendment that would
permit Mr. Jarboe to remain where he is. Mayor Moriconi advised that this would
be on the agenda for the next business meeting. Mayor will ask Council to make
take action at that time. Council Member Bushong requested Mr. Deters to obtain
a little more information; Mr. Deters said that he would send them a memo
outlining the process of the text amendment as opposed to the map amendment and
what their options are. Mr. Deters stated that he’s not former with the second
five (5) acre requirement Mr. Wichmann is talking about, there is a one (1)
five acre requirement, knows you can tie across the street. Mr. Deters want to
look at that to, he not sure if that applies. Council Member Ellison stated
that was the reason council did not want to do a text amendment because Mr.
Jarboe did not have five (5) acres. Mr. Wichmann stated there is a five (5)
acres requirement for a Map Amendment, five (5) acre requirement zoning, even
if you’ve got the NSC zone you can’t build on a lot that’s smaller than five
(5) acres, it’s an area requirement in your zoning ordinance. Mr. Deters said
the problem is that you have something that exists, instead of starting from
the ground up. Mr. Wichmann said that was the reason there should be no
restrictions the building already exists. Mr. Deters said that he understand,
and will get that information for the next business meeting.   
New Business:
Tom Lutz – Request for a Text Amendment   
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Thomas Lutz to Council and asked that he inform
council whom he is representing and some background information. Mr. Lutz
stated that he was representing Mr. Martin Neltner. Requesting the text
amendment for the property behind the bowling alley, 3.9 acres. Asking council
to decide and allow them to put a storage facility.  Mr. Lutz asked council to
look at the hand out, item number 31- off street parking lot and or garages,
now what that mean, according to zoning there talking about garages to park
cars in either on level or two. Mr. Lutz stated that there not interested in a
garage there interested in a storage facility. Asking that the text amendment
read off street parking lot and or garage storage. Mr. Lutz talked to Mr. Switz
and Mrs. Wuestefeld from Planning a Zoning, was advised that this was the route
they had to go in order to get this building done. Mr. Deter asked if the
current zone is NSC zone and the only question is weather or not the permitted
use is what you are purposing. Planning and Zoning said that because the text
amendment doesn’t say storage garage. Mr. Lutz is asking the city to support a
text amendment to make that modification so planning and zoning then can
process his application. Mr. Lutz stated that planning and zoning would help us
with the wording of the ordinance. Mr. Lutz said they are applying for wording
or added wording to text amendment not a zoning change. Mayor Moriconi asked if
they are looking to have multiple storages, and are they talking about renting
these out or will it be just for Neltner building? Mr. Lutz stated that they
would like to do one building for there equipment, storage garages, or it’s
just going to be one big parking lot. This would go right behind the existing
building with access off Cox Road. Mr. Deters asked if they talked to Mr. Lutz
about permitted use or conditional use. Mr. Lutz did not understand, Mr. Deters
stated that permitted use is it’s there and you can do it, conditional use is,
well not sure if it should be in that zone. Mr. Lutz talked to the building
inspector and Mrs. Wuestefeld and she said to find the best way for it. Mr.
Deters stated that the best thing for council is to look at this list of things
and determine whether or not a self-storage facility is generally permitted in
a NSC zone. Council Member Ellison recommended a conditional use and that it go
before the board of adjustments. Mayor Moriconi stated that for the next
meeting Mr. Deters will prepare two resolutions for text amendment; one for
permitted use and one for conditional use.  
Proposed Text Amendment (1631R) providing for a Moratorium on the Establishment
of a Sexually Oriented Business
Mayor Moriconi stated next item under new business moratorium on sexually
oriented business. Advised council that this came from the County and has been
a work in progress. Council member Bushong stated that when this first started
that there had to be a designated area within their city limits, and was going
to be open to sexually oriented businesses or are they not going to allow them
at all. Mr. Deters advised council that this is only until May of 2004, until
the study is completed and then some recommendations on how to control this.
Mr. Deters stated that the problem right now is that the county and cities
don’t have structure on how to regulate this. Most cities are adopting this
moratorium just so they have a structure in place. Mayor Moriconi advised
council that they would do a first reading at the August 4, 2003 council
meeting.
City Attorney Report
Mr. Deters had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Comments
Business Recognition for the Month of August- Otis Ketron
Crowe Road Update -
Mayor Moriconi business recognition for the month of August – Otis Ketron, I
believe you said Century 21, Garden Properties. Crowe Road updates we had the
city engineer take a look at the deteriorating Crowe Road and their
recommendation to correct the problem. Chief Butler stated that all council
should have a copy of CDS Engineers report; Chief Butler stated that it was
pretty self-explanatory. Chief Butler did talk with Judge Murgatroyd and Mr.
Kimmich of the county there are some emergency funds available, they’re going
to try to assist us in getting them. Council member Franzen asked if they gave
any ideal how much would be available. Chief Butler stated that it all up in
the air; they just received the report themselves. Mr. Deters advised council
that at one point council had talked about putting a weight limit on the
bridge. Chief Butler stated as soon as he heard back from county he would give
council an update. 
Council member Bushong asked if this was an option, replacement or repair?
Chief Butler stated that basically this is a replacement on the bridge. Mayor
Moriconi stated that one option is to buy the houses out, the city can only buy
one house a year or the city can open up the old Richardson at old Hwy 17
Finance Director Position - . Mayor Moriconi stated the next item was he found
out by email that the city finance director has resigned. Ms. Rebman stated
that she has been without contract since May or June of 2002. Mayor Moriconi
stated we would
Street Repairs - work on getting a new Finance Director. Mayor Moriconi stated
that he has spoke with the engineer about cost estimate on Fleming Drive; it
seems to be the next road we need to repair. Clubhouse Drive repairs came out
of last year money. Fleming would come out of the budget past this year. Mayor
Moriconi stated that Clubhouse Drive is about finished. Mayor Moriconi asked
Chief Butler to give council their choices on Fleming Drive. Chief Butler
stated there are just two choices, one is just an overlay it’s a 145,000.00
dollars, the other is a total reconstruction $193,000.00. Mayor Moriconi stated
that it’s a 193,000.00 dollars if we completely put in all new concrete and
it’s 143,000.00 dollars if we do basically what we just did to Clubhouse Drive.
Chief Butler stated that this would come straight from are budget and this is
just a general estimate of what this would cost. Council member Franzen stated
that Jeff Smith, Public Works will send her an update on street repair, she
will forward that on to council. Mayor Moriconi stated that the city has enough
budgeted to do one of those option on Fleming Drive and maybe do Kimberly Drive
or Elizabeth Drive but not all three of them. Spoke with the engineer about
moving forward with Fleming Drive this fall. Mayor Moriconi stated that he is
looking for some direction from council to move forward on Fleming Drive.
Request for Executive Session - Mayor Moriconi asked if council had any
additional comments before going into executive session.
Personnel Policies - Council member Behler proposed that council take a look at
employee policy regarding carrying over vacation time; in most companies there
is always a minimum that an employee can carry over. The city currently has no
kind of minimum right now. Council member Bushong has some issue that he wanted
to bring up in executive session. Mr. Deters advised council that personnel
matters in general is not appropriate for Executive Session, a personnel matter
involving one individual would be appropriate. Mr. Deters advised council that
he would bring some proposal back for vacation carry over at the next caucus
meeting August 18, 2003.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion to go into Executive Session, Council Member
Franzen so moved seconded by Council member Bushong. Motion carried all ayes.
Executive Session
1.   Mayor Moriconi stated there was a need to have an executive session.
Council member Behler moved and Council member Franzen seconded to enter into
an executive session to K.R.S. 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing pending
litigation. Motion carried all ayes.
2.   Upon motion by Council member Bushong and seconded by Council member
Franzen the regular session of the council meeting resumed. Motion carried all
ayes.
Adjournment
Council member Bushong moved, with second by Council member Franzen to adjourn
the meeting. Motion carried all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:42 p.m.
                     _______________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
                     City of Independence, Kentucky
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
__________________________________________
Linda K. Fender, Secretary
City of Independence, Ky.
August 4, 2003
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
August 4, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Father Paul Berscheid of St. Cecilia
Catholic Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol
Franzen and Donna Yeager. Council Member Otis Ketron was absent. Also present
was City Attorney, Jed Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Ketron had selected Century 21 –
Garner Properties as recipient of the Business of the Month tribute for August.
Mayor Moriconi presented Tina Vogelpohl with the plaque.
Approval of the Minutes of the July 7, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the July 7,
2003 regular meeting of council. Council Member Ellison so moved, with second
from Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted and roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the July 21, 2003 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the June 21,
2003 Special meeting of council. Council Member Bushong moved, with second from
Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted and roll was answered
unanimously with the motion carrying 5-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the July 21, 2003 Caucus Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the July 21,
2003 caucus meeting of council. Council Member Ellison moved, with second from
Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
Privileges of the Floor
6.   Sherry Carran, 927 Forest Avenue, Covington, Kentucky addressed council by
stating that she is a member of the Banklick Watershed Council and shared her
concerns regarding the planned development by Jim Berling known as Canberra
Ridge Subdivision. She stated that at the last council meeting she informed
council that while she did not oppose this development she did feel that the
size of the planned conservation area needed to be larger. She stated that Mr.
Berling has begun grading this land and started the construction of a detention
pond. She stated that Mr. Berling had initially seemed willing to work with the
Banklick Watershed Council to address the environmental impact concerns this
development would have, but now feels he has not been forthcoming and that he
will not keep his promise. Ms. Carran recommended the city impose the following
additional conditions before approving this zone change:
1)   100 foot conservation easement along the Brushy Fork corridor
2)   Lot lines be modified to provide the 100 foot buffer
3)   A conservation easement be placed on the back portion of the development
4)   Get this agreement in writing before the final site plan is approved.
7.   Ms. Carran stated that she does not feel the conditions are unreasonable.
She reported she has obtained a model ordinance that protects watersheds and
advised that the standard buffer is 100-150 feet.
8.   City Attorney, Jed Deters cautioned council and Ms. Carran that the city
could not hear new evidence regarding this matter that was not provided at the
public hearing which was held by the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC).
He advised council they would need to make a decision based on the facts that
were presented at that hearing and the recommendation by the KCPC. He went on
to instruct those who wished to speak on this matter that they would be limited
to oral statements and stated they could not introduce new evidence.
9.   Ms. Carran stated that council should personally review this matter in
order to make an informed decision, as she feels the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission (NKAPC) and the KCPC has simplified the issue. Mr. Deters
stated that the Planning Commission performs this plan review process for the
city so that there would be no duplication of information.
10.   Mr. Martin Butler, attorney for Jim Berling, advised that his client has
not made a formal presentation to council, as this is not a public hearing. Mr.
Deters stated that Mr. Berling deserves due process.
11.   Ms. Carran stated that the Sanitation District is now reviewing the
watershed plan and advised the District has informed her that they have not
reviewed this particular development plan. Mr. Deters stated that the District
has not fully accepted the sewer system from the city yet.
12.   Mr. Butler stated that of the 140 acres of this development, his client
is only requesting that 50 acres be re-zoned from R-1A to R-1C as the remaining
acreage is already zoned R-1C. He stated that Ms. Carran is referring to what
is a standard subdivision regulation review. Mr. Butler said that his client’s
position in agreeing to make this a preservation area is that the area should
remain private. He advised that no mechanism has been put forward that would
provide for maintenance of this area if it was made public. Mr. Butler stated
that this could become a safety issue as the city has not assumed liability for
a large conservation easement. He stated that his client is willing to preserve
an area, but passive recreation implies the general public would have access
and he doesn’t think the city was to assume maintenance. Mr. Butler also
commented that the storm water drainage has been addressed in the development
plan and his client does not consider this to be a valid issue and it is not a
condition before the city.
13.   Marc Hult, 322 East 3rd Street, Covington, Kentucky stated that he is the
Executive Director of the Banklick Watershed Council. He stated that Mr.
Berling’s development site is located in the Brushy Fork Creek area where it
meets with Banklick Creek. He stated that he feels there is much work to be
done before the city approves the recommendation of the KCPC, as it should be
determined whether this development will result in more flooding downstream.
Mr. Hult stated that an adequate plan to address downstream flooding should be
established before approving this development.
14.   Al Carson, 4015 Old Ky. 17, stated that he felt the city would approve
this project based on money and the tax dollars this development would be
generating. He stated that Ms. Carran not only addresses the conservation
concerns but also the storm water runoff. Mr. Carson stated that these projects
continue to affect his property as well as his neighbors. He stated that
Banklick Creek is three feet from the edge of his yard. He urged council to
look at this more closely and find a way to prevent additional storm water
runoff that will affect neighboring communities.
15.   Susan Cross, 5045 Madison Pike, stated that she has lived in Independence
since 1988 and as a science teacher and concerned citizen urged council to 1)
maintain the green space and the quality of life in Independence, which she
feels is in jeopardy with the influx of developments. Secondly, Ms. Cross
stated that she fears that the back section of this development will destroy
the water flood plain area and cause more flooding downstream. She urged
council to plan growth intelligently and with regard to Independence’s
neighbors.
16.   Bill Schneider, 2034 Cruise Creek Road, stated that council should delay
deciding this zone change until the city has a consolidated plan with
understanding to watersheds, and then make an informed decision.
17.   Jim Hendricks, 3972 Old Ky. 17, advised council that he has four sump
pumps to prevent his basement from flooding. He stated that in 1996 flooding
resulted in $40,000 damage to his property causing his property insurance
premium to triple. He urged council to look at this carefully and make
provisions to help the downstream residents.
18.   Mark Bergman, 57 Apple Drive, commented that he is a student of the
environment and as such felt council would be making a serious mistake to
approve this zone change. He stated that by removing the flood plain area the
storm water would not have an area to pond before it hits the creek. He stated
that it is bad stewardship to create problems for others outside of the city
limits.
19.   George Wolsing, advised council that he was born and raised here and
owned this property for fifty years. He stated that the flooding in this area
has been going on for seventy years. He commented that he would like to know
where all these people were when he was trying to protect it. Mr. Wolsing
stated he felt compelled to sell the property due to the rising frequency of
vandalism to his property, including having his cows shot several times. He
stated that the point he wanted to make was that the flooding is no worse now
than it was fifty years ago.
20.   Mr. Butler commented that there are systems in place; an improvement plan
was reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission. He stated they couldn’t
change the fact that there is going to be water runoff from this development
but the issue has been given a lot of attention and they feel they have
addressed this concern adequately. He stated that Mr. Berling is willing to
preserve a conservation easement, but one of a private nature, not a public
green space that would be accessible to the public and require public (city)
maintenance. In closing, Mr. Butler commented that the hillside will still be
there and that Mr. Hult presented no evidence that the flooding will increase
and provided no reasonable argument for council to oppose this development.
21.   Mayor Moriconi closed the discussion on this matter and advised that that
matter would be presented for a second reading and vote later in the meeting.
22.   Thelma Sams, 6209 Taylor Mill Road, presented council with a petition
signed by eleven property owners in the Taylor Mill Road/Rusconi Drive area who
would like the city to provide public sewer service. She advised that she has
been working with the Sanitation District since August of 2002 and it took an
entire year for the Sanitation District to advise the project will cost each
property owner $17,932. Ms. Sams stated the estimated expense of this project
is causing them to seek assistance from the city.
23.   Council Member Bushong explained that the $18,000 would be spread out
over a twenty year period, which would make this more affordable for most, and
for those unable to pay it off, then a lien would be placed against the
property to be paid off in the event of a property transfer. Ms. Sams commented
that the assessed value of some of the properties is too low. She stated the
surrounding properties have public sewers and urged the council to assist them.
28.   Mr. Deters commented the city has the same cost prohibitive as the
Sanitation District. Mayor Moriconi advised he would have the city engineer
review this request.
29.   Sara Gadzala, 91 Fleming Drive submitted a petition to council signed by
116 citizens that do not support Council Member Ketron’s presence on city
council and called for his resignation. In addition Ms. Gadzala read a prepared
statement wherein she requested the resignation of Council Member Otis Ketron
on behalf of the citizens and in light of pending criminal charges against him.
She stated it is in the best interest of the city for Council Member Ketron to
relinquish his council seat and urged the city leaders to pressure him to
resign. Ms. Gadzala stated that others in the community she has spoken to agree
it would be the only responsible thing for Mr. Ketron to do. She stated
residents feel the city’s name should not be linked with an elected official
who is facing such repulsive and abhorrent charges.
24.   Mr. Deters, City Attorney, responded to Ms. Gadzala’s statement by
advising her that since Council Member Ketron was absent from this meeting she
should return at a time when he is present to direct her concerns and request
to him. Ms. Gadzala countered that the city council should be concerned about
his continued presence on the council and the citizens want Mr. Ketron to
understand that they are not content with his decision to remain on council.
Council Member Bushong requested the petition submitted by Ms Gadzala be
attached as a part of the official minutes of this meeting.
25.   Chuck Kahrs, 21 Oby Drive thanked the city council and Chief Butler for
addressing the speeding concerns on Oby Drive. He stated that the temporary
speed bump that was installed has been a big help in slowing the traffic.
26.   Council Member Yeager also thanked the Police Department and the
Independence Fire District for the quick response she received when the meter
on her house set off.
27.   Charles Deters, Independence Towne Center stated he wanted to comment on
his opposition to the proposed ordinance that would approve a text amendment
adding professional offices as a conditional use in the R-1C zone. He requested
to reserve his comments until the matter comes up for discussion later in the
meeting.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-11 – Approving a Zoning Map Amendment Requested by
Independence Station Road LLC for a 50-Acre Tract North of Independence Station
Road (part of the Canberra Ridge Subdivision) – Second Reading
28.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading a proposed
ordinance that would approve a map amendment for an approximate 50-acre parcel
(in the Canberra Ridge Subdivision development) north of Independence Station
Road contiguous to the west with Banklick Creek and northeast with Brushy Fork
Creek. The proposed map amendment would rezone the area from R-1A to R-1C. Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2003-O-11.
29.   Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2003-O-11 as read,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Council Member Bushong asked Ms. Carran how
many of the citizens were present here tonight also attended the NKPC public
hearing. Ms. Carran responded that she was the lone person and Mr. Berling had
agreed to work with her on establishing a conservation easement. She stated
that at the time of the public hearing she voiced her viewpoint but did not
have all the information put forth tonight. Mr. Butler commented that there
were two hearings before the KCPC wherein there were full blown presentations
and extensive discussion
30.   Council Member Behler asked if a grading permit and a clearing permit
were two different things. Mr. Berling stated that the project is divided into
phases and that he is now in Phase I where the general clearing and grading of
the land is allowed by means of one permit. Council Member Behler asked how
many natural ponds were on the property. Mr. Berling stated there were two. She
asked if he would add retention ponds. Mr. Berling responded yes.
31.   Council Member Franzen stated she is concerned that the city is allowing
new evidence at this meeting. Mr. Deters assured her that the discussion to
this point has been proper. Mr. Butler stated that he feels they have simply
responded to the statements made.
32.   Council Member Ellison stated that the Wolsing’s who are the former
owners of this property were excellent neighbors of his for many years, and the
Wolsing’s have struggled for the past 15-20 years to care for their property.
He stated he does not see a valid reason to oppose this development by Mr.
Berling and feels the city should allow him to proceed.
33.   Council Member Yeager commented that she concurred with Mr. Wolsing in
that the flooding has been occurring for many years. She stated that this is
nothing new and that Sanfordtown has always had flooding problems and that she
believes the flooding has lessened in recent years.
34.   Council Member Behler stated that she is at the low end of the learning
curve when it comes to planning issues and in this particular case feels that
she does not have enough information at this time to vote to approve or
disapprove this development. Council Member Franzen commented that the city
should follow the KCPC’s recommendation on this development.
35.   There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi called for a vote. Roll
call was answered with four ayes, with Council Member Behler recusing. Motion
carried
Ordinance No. 2003-O-12 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment adding Religious
Worship Institutions as a Conditional Use in the NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
Zone – Second Reading
36.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2003-O-12 that would approve a text amendment to the city zoning ordinance,
Section 10.14 adding churches and other buildings for religious worship,
teaching and education as a conditional use in the neighborhood commercial
zone. Mr. Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance.
37.   Council Member Ellison moved to approve Ordinance No. 2003-O-12 as read,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. There being no discussion roll call was
taken and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-13 – Approving a Text Amendment Relating to the Definition
of “Family” and Relating to Manufactured Housing – Second Reading
38.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2003-O-13 that would approve a text amendment to the Zoning Ordinance that 1)
deletes the existing definition(s) of “family” and adds a new definition of
“family”; and 2) adds compatibility standards for qualified manufactured
housing along with various cross references in other sections of the zoning
ordinance. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
39.   Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2003-O-13 as read,
seconded by Council Member Ellison. No discussion; roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-14 – Regarding Compensation for Elected Officials and
Amending Ordinance No. 2000-O-02 – Second Reading
40.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2003-O-14
that effectively amends Ordinance 2000-O-02 pertaining to salary compensation
for elected city officials. He stated that as proposed by this council,
Ordinance No. 2003-O-14 would eliminate the CPI (consumer price index) salary
increases, which were scheduled to take effect in March 2004. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2003-O-14
41.   Council Member Franzen moved, with second by Council Member Behler to
adopt Ordinance No. 2003-O-14 as read. . He stated that the previous Ordinance
No. 2000-O-02 was essentially unconstitutional as there is no reference to CPI
increases in the constitution. Council Member Behler asked Mr. Deters why it
was unconstitutional. Mr. Deters explained that by providing for built in
salary increases based on the cost of living, eventually the elected officials
salaries would exceed the salary limits set by Kentucky statute. There being no
further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 4-
1.
Discussion Regarding the Recommendation by the Kenton County Planning
Commission (KCPC) to Disapprove a Text Amendment Adding Professional Offices as
a Conditional Use in the R-1C Zone
42.   Mayor Moriconi advised the next agenda item before council is the
consideration of a zoning text amendment proposed by Mr. Jeff Jarboe which
would add professional offices as a conditional use in the R-1C zone. He stated
that the KCPC has recommended the city disapprove this text amendment. City
Attorney, Mr. Jed Deters explained the process of a text amendment. He stated
that in this particular case the KCPC has recommended that the city disapprove
this request as it would allow for incompatible land use in the R-1C zones with
offices locating in residential areas all around the city which is not
appropriate planning. Mr. Deters advised that ultimately the city council has
the authority to either support the recommendation of the Planning Commission
or override their recommendation. He stated that if council chose to override
the recommendation by the Planning Commission, it would require two readings of
the proposed ordinance to approve the zoning text amendment.
43.   Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mr. Charlie Deters who wished to
voice his opposition to the city approving this text amendment. Mr. Charlie
Deters stated he is the developer of the Independence Towne Center, which is
directly across from Mr. Jarboe’s property. He stated that the Towne Center was
a 250-acre parcel, which is a well-thought out development that includes
neighborhood commercial, residential and multi-family, with twenty-seven acres
given to the city for the development of a park and municipal center and two
acres to the Fire District to build a new firehouse. He stated the development
is public and accessible; he built public streets and sewers. He stated that he
opposes this text amendment, as he feels it is does not provide an overall plan
to better the community. He stated it is nit picking to change a zone in order
to permit an office building in a residential area. Mr. Deters stated that it
offends him to change the words in the zoning text to modify the planning
process and permit rinky-dink growth. He stated that when he set out to
construct the Towne Center he had to follow the rules and create a sound
development plan and it took substantial effort to do a nice project for the
city. He urged council to uphold the recommendation of the Planning Commission
because to allow this type of conditional use is bad planning.
44.   Mr. Frank Wichmann, legal counsel for Mr. Jarboe, responded that while he
appreciates Charlie Deters’ comments, he disagrees with his view. He
complimented Mr. Deters’ on the Towne Center development, but stated that Mr.
Jarboe’s property is not shabby. He stated that Mr. Jarboe would be willing to
sell his property for the replacement cost, but no one would purchase the
property in the manner that the Comprehensive Plan identifies this area for
commercial use. Mr. Wichmann stated that the Planning Commission suggested the
method used by Mr. Jarboe as a means to bring his home business into compliance
in this residential area. He cited that the issue here is whether Mr. Jarboe
can use this residential property for a commercial purpose and he feels he
should be able to considering the surrounding properties are zoned commercial.
45.   Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Jarboe how long he has operated at this
property. Mr. Jarboe stated that he has been there for four years operating as
a financial planner with no customers on site and for one year with customers.
He stated that prior to that time, he operated his offices above Nie’s
Pharmacy.
46.   Council Member Ellison stated that he feels the confusion stems from the
Planning Commission. Mr. Jed Deters commented that the NKAPC staff took one
position, while the KCPC members made two recommendations to Mr. Jarboe.
Council Member Yeager agreed with Council Member Ellison. She stated that after
reviewing the zoning map she obtained from the Planning Commission and reading
the information she feels bad for Mr. Jarboe that he has received conflicting
information.
47.   Mayor Moriconi stated that ultimately the council needed to decide
whether or not they want Mr. Jarboe’s business to remain in it’s present
location. Mr. Charlie Deters commented that by approving the text amendment
proposed by Mr. Jarboe it will affect other properties throughout the city as
long as the request meets the conditions set forth. Mr. Wichmann objected to
Mr. Deters’ assessment, citing that very few properties would be affected by
this change in text. Council Member Ellison commented that he agreed with Mr.
Deters that many properties would be affected. Mr. Jarboe stated that the only
areas designated in the Comprehensive Plan to as neighborhood shopping centers
or professional office spaces are properties across from the Towne Center. Mr.
Charlie Deters replied that a text amendment opens up the possibility for all
properties in the city to seek a conditional use.
48.   At this time, Council Member Franzen made a motion to accept the
recommendation of the KCPC to disapprove the proposed zoning text amendment
that would permit professional offices as a conditional use in the R-1C zone.
Council Member Behler seconded the motion and commented that she is very
conflicted. She stated that she hates to see the city loose a business, but is
compelled to agree with the Planning Commission. She suggested the city might
help Mr. Jarboe relocate in the city. Roll call was answered with four ayes and
one no vote cast by Council Member Ellison. Motion carried 4-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Text Amendment Providing for a Moratorium on
the Establishment of a Sexually Oriented Business – 1st Reading
49.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading an ordinance that would
enact a proposed text amendment to the zoning ordinance adding Article XX that
would provide for a moratorium on the establishment of a sexually oriented
business and provide that no application shall be processed and no permit
issued for such an establishment. He stated the Kenton County Planning
Commission has proposed this moratorium be in effect until May 15, 2004 or upon
the adoption of a new ordinance in response to the regional study regarding
sexually oriented businesses is complete. The City Attorney, Jed Deters read
the ordinance.
Resolution No. 2003-R-21 Declaring 5247 Madison Pike Surplus Property and
Authorizing Notice to Bid
50.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their consideration, Resolution
No. 2003-R-21 that would declare the city administration building, located at
5247 Madison Pike, as surplus property and authorize the administration to
accept sealed bids for the sale of the property to the highest and best bidder.
Council Member Ellison questioned accepting bids instead of placing the
property on the market with a realtor. Mr. Deters advised it is first necessary
to declare the property as surplus, before taking sealed bids. Council Member
Behler asked what would happen if the sealed bids were well below the actual
market value. Mr. Deters advised the city would have the right to reject the
bids received and then perhaps the city would list the property with a realtor.
Mayor Moriconi advised that a market analysis has been completed.
51.   Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2003-R-21 with second
by Council Member Behler. No roll called; motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2003-R-22 Supporting a Text Amendment to Permit Self-Storage
Facilities and Warehouses as a Conditional Use in the NSC Zone
52.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their consideration, Resolution
No. 2003-R-22 that would support a text amendment to the zoning ordinance to
permit self-storage facilities and warehouses as conditional uses in the NSC
zone and amending Section 10.15,A,31 to read “off-street parking lots and/or
parking garages.”
53.   Council Member Behler moved to adopt Resolution No. 2003-R-22, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. No roll call; motion carried with four ayes and one
no (4-1) vote cast by Council Member Ellison.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
54.   Fleming Drive Repairs - Mayor Moriconi reported that the city is in
receipt of bids to make road repairs to Fleming Drive. Chief Butler stated a
copy of the city engineer’s report was provided in the council packets. He
stated that the engineer is recommending that the city delay commencement of
this road work until next year, because of concerns that this project will take
several weeks to complete and may run into the onset of winter weather. Council
Member Franzen stated she spoke with Jeff Smith of the Public Works Department
who feels it will cost more to repair next year, as additional damage will
occur over the winter months. Chief Butler reiterated that the city engineer is
concerned that if this project is started in September it will not be completed
before the start of winter. Mayor Moriconi advised delaying this project until
next spring. Council Member Ellison stated that he feels the city should follow
the recommendation of the city engineer even though additional maintenance may
be necessary until spring. Council Member Behler expressed concern that the
city could not afford to add an additional $100,000 to delay these repairs
until spring.
55.   Police Grants – Chief Butler reported that the department has received a
$10,000 grant to combat illegal prescriptions as well as a $10,000 grant from
the state for the installation of video camera.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-09 - Appointing Jeremy Deters, Esq. to the Senior
Center Board of Directors
56.   Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2003-EO-09 appointing Jeremy
Deters to the Senior Center Board of Directors. Council Member Behler stated
that she was uncomfortable approving an appointment of someone she is not
familiar with. Council Member Bushong stated he would appreciate receiving a
bio on the mayoral appointments.
57.   Council Member Yeager moved to approve Executive Order No. 2003-EO-09
appointing Jeremy Deters to the Senior Board, seconded by Council Member
Ellison. Roll call was answered with four ayes, with Council Member Behler
recusing herself. Motion carried.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-10 – Appointing Dr. Craig Sanders to the Senior
Center Board of Directors
58.   Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2003-EO-10 appointing Dr. Craig
Sanders to the Senior Center Board of Directors. Council Member Ellison moved
to approve Executive Order No. 2003-EO-10, seconded by Council Member Bushong.
Roll call was answered with four ayes, with Council Member Behler recusing
herself. Motion carried.
59.   Cancellation of the August Caucus Meeting - Mayor Moriconi announced that
the Northern Kentucky Area Development District’s Annual meeting and banquet
would be held on August 18, 2003, which is the same date of the city’s caucus
meeting. He advised that Chief Butler would be awarded the Police Chief of the
Year at this year’s banquet.
60.   Council Member Franzen moved to cancel the August 18, 2003 caucus
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Motion carried.
Sidewalk Compliance
61.   Council Member Ellison addressed the non-compliance of two areas that
have not installed sidewalks as required – Lakeside apartments and the BP
Station on Madison Pike. He commented that he was informed the sidewalks at the
BP Station would be installed after the reconstruction of the intersection, but
that has been some time ago and the sidewalks have not been constructed. Mayor
Moriconi stated there has been a change in ownership of the BP Station, but he
will notify the owners. Council Member Ellison stated the construction of the
sidewalks was the responsibility of the developers, Mr. Berling and Mr.
Scheben.
Executive Session
62.   Council Member Franzen made a motion to enter into executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation and K.R.S.
61.810 (f) to discuss personnel appointment. Council Member Yeager seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
63.   Upon motion by Council Member Ellison and second by Council Member
Franzen council returned to regular session. Motion carried with all ayes.
Appointment of a New Finance Director – Teresa Franklin Hudson
64.   Council Member Ellison made a motion to approve Mayor Moriconi’s
recommendation to enter into a contract with Teresa Franklin Hudson as the
city’s new Finance Director, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried
with all ayes.
Adjournment
65.   There being no further business, Council Member Ellison moved with second
by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. The meeting ended at 9:05 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky.
September 8, 2003
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
September 8, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Lisa May Staffordsburg United
Methodist Church gave the invocation. Mayor Moriconi asked for a moment of
silence in remembrance of the approaching two-year anniversary of the September
11 (2001) tragedy.
2.   Following the moment of silence, roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Carol
Franzen and Donna Yeager. Council Member Otis Ketron was absent. Also present
was City Attorney, Jed Deters.
Presentation of the State Flag by Senator Damon Thayer
3.   Mayor Moriconi introduced State Senator Damon Thayer who presented the
City of a state flag that was flown over Frankfort earlier this summer. Senator
Thayer stated that it is an honor to be in Independence where he received much
support during his bid for the senate seat during a special election held in
January. He stated that he lives in Georgetown, and much like Independence it
is one of the fastest growing communities in the state. Senator Thayer stated
that he formerly lived in Crittenden and is familiar with the needs of the
citizens in Independence. He advised that he will actively support the road
improvements to St.Route17 and continue to make a great effort to ensure that
it will remain on the six-year road improvement plan for the state. He stated
that he sees this as an important issue for the future of Independence as well
as addressing other traffic plans. He also mentioned that he is not in favor of
increasing the gas tax and expressed confidence that the next governor will
hopefully be able to find waste in the current budget, thereby properly funding
the areas that need it.
4.   Mayor Moriconi advised Senator Thayer that Independence is lacking
sidewalks along State Routes 17 and 536 and would like state funding to assist
the city in achieving these improvements. Senator Thayer agreed that the
schools and subdivisions warrant that need. He stated that the economy is on
the rebound, which will help the state budget and create jobs. He stated that
the state has four major areas (Medicaid, education, public protection/
correction and health and human services) that consume 80% of a $13,000,000,000
bi-annual budget. The Senator advised that he felt the state needed to do a
better job funding those areas and then look at assisting with the funding of
community projects.
5.   Council Member Yeager stated that the city has sent a letter to Senator
Bunning requesting his support for the second phase of the construction of the
city’s Memorial Park Amphitheater. She stated that the city would also
appreciate his endorsement in this community project. Mayor Moriconi stated
that he would provide Senator Thayer with a detailed list of future needs for
Independence and thanked the Senator for his presence and support.
Recognition
6.   Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Yeager had selected Dr. Molly King of
the Associated Spine and Headache Centre as recipient of the Business of the
Month tribute for September. Mayor Moriconi presented Dr. King with the plaque.
Dr. King thanked everyone, including her staff. She stated this was an honor as
she has been a business owner in this location for five years but has been a
part of this community for many years as she has grew up in Independence.
Approval of the Minutes of the August 4, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
7.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the August 4,
2003 regular meeting of council. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
from Council Member Franzen. Council Member Ellison noted two amendments; roll
call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Privileges of the Floor
8.   Bob Exeler, 5296 Fowler Creek Road, addressed council about his desire to
obtain public water service to the Fowler Creek Road area. He wondered about
the status of the Sycamore Creek Estates development as it appears to be
delayed due to the fact that the developer (Fischer) has filed suit against the
Planning Commission, as they are requiring the water lines be constructed to
the end of the property. Mr. Exeler asked what effect this has on the city.
Both Mayor Moriconi and City Attorney, Jed Deters stated they were not aware of
this issue
9.   Mr. Exeler asked how the city could help the Fowler Creek property owners
obtain water lines. He stated he has requested this service for years and would
appreciate any assistance the city can offer. Council Member Ellison confirmed
that Mr. Exeler has made several appeals to the city for assistance in
obtaining water lines in that area of the city. Mayor Moriconi advised that he
would need to work with the Northern Kentucky Water District and/or Taylor Mill
Water, whichever agency supplies water to that area.
10.   Chuck Kahrs, 21 Oby Drive, addressed council in a recurring appeal for
the city to provide a permanent solution to solving the speeding problem on Oby
Drive. He stated that he appreciates the Police Chief’s past efforts to solve
this problem, but that it is worse now than before. He stated the portable
speed bump helped while it was in place, but when it was removed the speeding
continued. He stated that he feels a permanent solution would be to install a
stop sign or permanent speed bump. Chief Butler stated his department has
worked very hard at trying to solve this problem. Council Member Ellison stated
he feels it is time to take care of this problem and suggested that Chief
Butler check with the City of Edgewood on the cost of speed bumps. Chief Butler
replied that they are very costly – anywhere from $3,000 to $10,000 per bump.
Mr. Kahrs asked why a stop sign couldn’t be installed. Chief Butler stated that
a stop sign couldn’t be used as a traffic control device midway through a
street that does not intersect with another street, but that council can
override this. Council Member Yeager suggested leaving the portable speed bump
permanently in place on Oby Drive. Chief Butler stated that Clubhouse Drive is
also experiencing speeders and the bump was being installed there for a time.
He stated that the other option of running radar costs the department
considerable man-hours in overtime pay. Council Member Ellison stated that
while he is normally against using a stop sign to control speed, he felt the
city may need to employ this in order to resolve this matter. Council Member
Franzen asked if purchasing another portable speed bump would be cheaper than
installing a permanent one. Chief Butler stated the cost of adding another
speed bump was a budget concern.
11.   Council Member Ellison made a motion to install a stop sign on Oby Drive.
Council Member Behler suggested this matter be discussed further at the caucus
meeting. She stated the city should review all options to resolving this
matter, such as different types of speed bumps and the associated costs as well
as the ramifications of a stop sign. Council Member Franzen asked if “Children
at Play” signs are posted on the street. Mr. Kahrs stated that Chief Butler has
those signs installed. Council Member Bushong questioned why speeding on Oby
Drive was worse than other city streets. Mayor Moriconi commented that other
streets have speeding problems as well as Oby Drive. Chief Butler stated that
one contributing factor was that Oby Drive did not have another egress for the
Freedom Park subdivision, which is accessed by Oby Drive. Hearing no second to
Council Member Ellison’s motion, he withdrew his motion from the floor. Mayor
Moriconi advised more information would be provided at the caucus meeting.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-15 – Approving a Text Amendment Providing for a Moratorium
on the Establishment of a Sexually Oriented Business
12.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2003-O-15
that would enact a text amendment to the zoning ordinance adding Article XX
that would provide for a moratorium on the establishment of a sexually oriented
business and provide that no application shall be processed and no permit
issued for such an establishment. City Attorney, Jed Deters read Ordinance No.
2003-O-15.
13.   Council Member Ellison moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2003-O-15 as read,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Council Member Franzen asked if the
moratorium would be in effect for six months. Mayor Moriconi stated it would be
in effect until May 2004. Roll call was answered unanimously; motion carried 5-
0.
Proposed Ordinance – Prohibiting the Keeping or Harboring of Barking Dogs – 1st
Reading
14.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading, a proposed
ordinance that would address the problem of frequent and habitual barking of
dogs that disturb the peace of residents. Council Member Bushong stated that
there are rules in place that need to be enforced and while he is in favor of
making an effort to address this problem he is not sure that it will have the
desired effect. Mayor Moriconi commented the current laws are difficult to
enforce and that the purpose of this ordinance is to oblige the responsibility
of the dog owner. Mr. Deters stated that the prior ordinance required the
responding police officer to witness the dog barking. He stated that this
ordinance allows the complaining party to start the process of citing the
offender to the Kenton District Court for prosecution under this ordinance
through the county attorney’s office. Mayor Moriconi advised the city receives
numerous calls complaining about persistent barking dogs.
15.   Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised the
ordinance would be presented for a second reading and adoption thereof at the
October business meeting of council.
Award Bid of Municipal Center Telephone & Security Support System Equipment &
Wiring
16.   Mayor Moriconi reported that the city was in receipt of four bids for the
installation of the telephone and security system for the new Municipal Center.
Bidders include: ICS, Atkins & Stang, NorCom and Cincinnati Bell. The bids
include all wiring and equipment needed for the system. First Chief Butler
thanked Dave Millward for his time and dedication in facilitating the city in
bringing this project to completion. His experience and knowledge of this type
of equipment proved invaluable to the city. He stated that the project was bid
out based on equipment specifications and support services. Chief Butler stated
the funds for this expense is budgeted in the Municipal Center project. Council
Member Ellison pointed out that there is a notation that one of the bidders did
not fulfill the bid specs. Chief Butler stated there were exceptions to that
particular bid, but council can ultimately decide if this bidder met all areas
of the specifications.
17.   Chief Butler stated that he is most familiar with the Cincinnati Bell
bid. He stated the city currently utilizes Cincinnati Bell systems and have
been happy with the equipment and service. He advised that NorCom and
Cincinnati Bell had worked with the city to arrive at the specs for the bid of
this equipment. He stated that those two bids received had been considerably
reduced from the initial estimates they provided to the city. Council Member
Franzen noted that NorCom’s maintenance costs increased each year, whereas
Cincinnati Bell quoted a fixed maintenance cost up to five years. Chief Butler
stated that he felt that was an important factor to consider when awarding this
bid.
18.   Council Member Franzen moved to award the bid to Cincinnati Bell as the
best bidder, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Declare Surplus Property – One Police Cruiser
19.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the police department had an old cruiser that
needed to be declared surplus. It is a 1994 Ford Crown Victoria. Council Member
Bushong moved to declare the 1994 Ford as surplus property to be auctioned,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. No roll call was taken; motion carried
unanimously 5-0.
Resolution No. 2003-R-24 – Providing for the Appointment of Interim Successors
as Directed by Kentucky Emergency Management to Update the Emergency Operation
Plan
20.   Mayor Moriconi presented for council’s consideration Resolution No. 2003-
R-24 that would approve and adopt the statewide emergency management mutual aid
and assistance agreement, appointing primary and alternate representatives for
Independence in the event of an emergency. He advised that the city is being
asked to provide for the continuity of government throughout the duration of a
state of emergency by appointing emergency interim successors in the event that
the Mayor, as the primary representative for the city, is not available. Mayor
Moriconi stated the alternate representatives would be Shawn Butler, Police
Chief, Dave Nichols, Assistant Chief and Patricia Taney, City Clerk
respectively.
21.   Council Member Ellison moved to adopt Resolution No. 2003-R-24 as read,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll call was answered unanimously and the
motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Text Amendment to Add Outdoor Dining as a
Conditional Use in the NC and NSC Zone – 1st Reading
22.   Mayor Moriconi presented for first reading a proposed ordinance that
would approve a text amendment to add outdoor dining as a conditional use in
the NC and NSC zone. He stated this would be in keeping with the recommendation
made by the Kenton County Planning Commission. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised this ordinance would be presented for a
second reading at the next regular meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a 2003 Tax Rate for Real & Personal Property –
1st Reading
23.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would adopt
tax rates for real and personal properties for the year 2003. He advised the
proposed tax rate for real estate is .169 for $100 of assessed value and the
proposed rate for personal property is .465 for $100 of assessed value. Mayor
Moriconi stated these rates are four percent over the compensating rate, which
was calculated at .163 and .447 respectively. He reminded council that the
current budget was adopted with the assumption that the city would be adopting
a compensating plus four percent tax rate. He stated that he would call a
special meeting prior to the September 15th caucus meeting so that a second
reading and enactment of this ordinance could take place. There being no
discussion, Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
24.   Council Member Franzen requested that a second reading of the proposed
ordinance to approve the text amendment to add the outdoor dining language to
the zoning ordinance also be included on the agenda for the special meeting.
Mayor Moriconi approved this request.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
25.   Resignation of Council Member Otis Ketron - Mayor Moriconi stated the
city is in receipt of Council Member Otis Ketron’s resignation. Council Member
Bushong moved, with second by Council Member Franzen to accept Mr. Ketron’s
resignation from council. Roll call was answered unanimously; motion carried 5-
0
26.   Mr. Deters advised council that the statute states they must appoint a
successor to this council seat within thirty days. Mayor Moriconi commented
that the city has received some applications already and that he will provide
copies of each in time for the caucus meeting. He advised he would like to
schedule a special meeting near the end of September to review the applications
and narrow it down to a few candidates for the position. Council discussed
imposing a deadline for accepting applications and decided on September 15 at
the close of business (4:30 p.m.). Mayor Moriconi suggested interviewing the
candidates in executive session at the planned special meeting at the end of
the month. Mr. Deters advised that council could conduct the interview in an
open forum. Council Members Ellison and Yeager rejected the idea of
interviewing in an open session. Council Member Franzen concurred. Council
Member Bushong stated that he shares the feelings of the other council members
and felt the candidates may be uncomfortable being asked general questions in a
public session. He asked that Mr. Deters research the legalities of conducting
the interviews in closed session to see if council would be within their rights
to do so.
27.   Providing Public Water Services – Mayor Moriconi revisited the issue of
water lines in the Rusconi Drive/Taylor Mill Road area as requested by Ms.
Thelma Sams. Council Member Ellison advised that he told Ms. Sams that he would
inspect the area and asked the Mayor if he would authorize the city engineer to
review this location. He commented that even though the city has turned over
the city owned sewer lines to the Sanitation District, he feels the city can
still be of assistance to the residents in their effort to connect into the
public sanitation lines. Mr. Deters advised the city has the reserve right to
expand the public sewer system. Council Member Ellison stated the city could
finance the cost over a twenty-year period, whereas the Sanitation District
will not finance. Council Member Yeager stated that Senour Road residents have
also had a problem with obtaining public water/sanitation services. Council
Member Bushong advised there are pocket areas like this all over the city. He
stated that the Sanitation District is very cooperative with the residents and
will assist with financing over a 15-year period at 4% interest and are happy
to do so, but it is a lengthy process and they prefer to deal with thirty or
more properties. He also stated that a lien can be placed on the property if
they are unable to pay the financing, then when the property is sold the lien
would be paid at the time of the property transfer. Mayor Moriconi commented
that he would contact the Northern Kentucky Water District regarding this
issue.
28.   Memorial Park Concert & Fireworks – Mayor Moriconi announced that the
city would hold a special grand opening of the new amphitheater in Memorial
Park with a concert and fireworks, weather permitting. He stated the event
would be held on September 27, 2003 with the ribbon cutting at 7:00 p.m. and
the fireworks at 9:00 p.m.
29.   VoiceStream - Council Member Ellison advised that the Kenton County
Planning Commission has approved a cellular tower to be constructed on Maher
Road. He stated that although this property is in unincorporated Kenton County,
he feels in the interest of air safety, that the city should exercise their
five-mile option and request this tower be lighted at night. He stated this
could have an effect on the residents of Independence as there is an air
landing strip on nearby property that is in the city limits, as well as
emergency Air Care helicopters.
30.   Council Member Ellison made a motion that the city send a letter to
Planning Commission requesting the VoiceStream cellular tower be required to
install day/night lights, seconded by Council Member Yeager. No roll call;
motion carried unanimously. Council Member Bushong commented that he agrees
with Council Member Ellison, but advised that the Planning Commission has
already voted and approved this plan by VoiceStream. Council Member Ellison
stated that he feels they will have to re-open this issue. Mr. Deters stated he
was not familiar with the “5-mile option” of which Council Member Ellison
mentioned.
Adjournment
31.   There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved with second
by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. The meeting ended at 8:22 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
City of Independence, Kentucky
ATTEST:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 15, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL CAUCUS MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence met on Monday September 15, 2003
at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Moriconi
presiding in the chair. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll call was answered and the following Council Members
were present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Jim Ellison, Donna Yeager and Carol
Franzen. Also present was City Attorney, Jed Deters.
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mrs. Teresa Hudson as the city’s new Finance Director
and welcomed her to the city.
Privileges of the Floor
Don Nienabor asked if the applications for the vacant council seat would be
made public. Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Nienabor that he could obtain a list
from the Administration Office.
Chuck Kahrs, 25 Oby Drive, inquired as to the update for the speed bumps on Oby
Drive. Chief Butler stated he is in the process of compiling the information he
has obtained to submit to council.
Mayor Moriconi advised Mrs. Joan Bowling, Senior Center Director would like to
address Council regarding the rental of the Senior and Community Center on
Holidays because she has received phone calls from residents inquiring as to
rental of the hall for the holidays. Mrs. Bowling advised Mayor and Council she
has a request to rent the hall on Christmas Eve. She stated she had e-mailed
council members and felt the general consensus was to rent the center for to
obtain the needed revenue. She stated there are several different ways to
permit rentals on holidays but there are problems that could be associated with
holiday rentals. Mrs. Bowling stated the Cities of Wilder and Southgate do rent
out their facility on holidays, but provide the renter with a key to the
building.
Council Member Yeager stated the city could easily solve that problem by having
the center closed on those holidays. Council Member Franzen asked if a code has
to be used in addition to a key to open the building. Mrs. Bowling stated they
must have a key to enter the building and a code to turn off the alarm.
Mrs. Bowling stated it is not a problem to change the security code and she can
also check to see what time the center was opened and what time it was closed.
She stated if someone does not enter the code correctly the alarm will go off
and the police will be dispatched to the center and then someone will have to
reset the alarm.
Council Member Franzen stated she felt it should be tried for the revenue.
Council Member Behler asked Mrs. Bowling what the experience has been with the
City of Southgate renting their Center on a holiday. Mrs. Bowling stated
Southgate has never had any problems but that doesn’t mean Independence won’t
have a problem.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the renters would have to clean up the room and lock
the building when they left or would someone from the city have to come and
lock the building. Mrs. Bowling stated they do not have to clean the room but
their trash has to be picked up and the building has to be left in the same
condition as when they arrived. It would be cleaned the next day.
Council Member Bushong stated he did not know what holidays it would include,
but felt Thanksgiving and Christmas were the most important holidays and he did
not feel the center should be open to anyone on those holidays. Mrs. Bowling
stated to rent one room the charge is only $60.00 and $300.00 for the whole
building.
Council Member Behler stated she did not feel the amount of revenue generated
is enough to make it worthwhile during the major holidays. Council Member
Bushong asked Mrs. Bowling what holidays did she feel the center should not be
available for rental. Mrs. Bowling stated Easter Sunday, Thanksgiving,
Christmas Eve, Christmas Day, New Years Eve and New Years Day.
Attorney Jed Deters stated the rental agreement could be amended to reflect the
changes. Mrs. Taney, City Clerk stated the amended rental agreement would be
ready for the October 6, 2003 Council Meeting.
Mrs. Bowling advised council that she has received a request by Jazz R Size, a
non-profit organization, to use the Center on a weekly basis donating 20% of
the profits to the city in lieu of paying a rental fee each time they use a
room in the Center. Council Member Bushong stated a 20% profit might not be
worth the trouble. Mayor Moriconi suggested no special considerations should be
allowed.
Sidewalk Waiver Requests
Mayor Moriconi stated Kevin Barbian, Building Inspector, per his memorandum in
the packets, has advised that two new homes being built on Cody Road and Oliver
Road are requesting sidewalk waivers. Mayor Moriconi advised Council that Mr.
Barbian can attend the October 6, 2003 Council Meeting to answer their
questions and added this request is similar to the Independence Station Road
sidewalk waiver request that was recently granted.
Council Member Ellison stated he feels the sidewalk waivers could become a
problem and felt sidewalks should be installed where required. Council Member
Franzen stated she agreed with Council Member Ellison. Council Member Behler
stated she looked at Cody Road and Oliver Road and is not convinced sidewalks
need to be installed on either road because they are dangerous and questioned
if sidewalks need to be installed on roads that do not lead anywhere but to
another subdivision. Council Member Ellison stated that the city probably did
not want sidewalks on Madison Pike fifty years ago, but they are needed today.
Attorney Jed Deters stated a temporary waiver could be added and if development
does occur, they could be required to go back and install sidewalks at a later
date. Council Member Bushong asked who determines the future need of sidewalks.
Attorney Jed Deters stated Council could make that determination and can lift
the waiver. He stated No. Ky. Area Planning does not issue waivers for
sidewalks that it is left up to the individual city.
Mayor Moriconi stated a Resolution could be discussed for a temporary waiver at
the next council meeting on October 6, 2003.
NEW BUSINESS
Damage to Subdivision Curbs
Mayor Moriconi stated Mr. Jeff Smith of the Public Works Department has
reported that contractors are damaging concrete curbs in new subdivisions. He
stated Mr. Smith is on vacation and this matter could be put off until another
meeting if Council agrees.
Council Member Franzen stated she has talked to Mr. Smith regarding this matter
and also viewed photos and would like an Ordinance created that would make
contractors liable for damages to the curbs. Mayor Moriconi stated if the city
accepts the street and the curbs are damaged the city would have to absorb the
expense of repairing them.
Council Member Bushong asked what position the city has taken up to now.
Council Member Franzen stated the city has repaired them and the cost has been
approximately $1,000.00.
Council Member Ellison stated he has also spoke to Mr. Smith regarding this
problem and he has visited some of the sites with him and advised when the
curbs are damaged they are not repaired properly. He stated they patchwork the
concrete in the part they have broken. Mayor Moriconi asked if the damage is
happening after the city has accepted the street. Attorney Jed Deters stated it
was. He stated this is happening when the contractors are doing their back
filling and final grading.
Council Member Franzen stated she would obtain information for Attorney Jed
Deters to prepare an Ordinance for the October 6, 2003 meeting.
Vacant Council Seat
Mayor Moriconi stated to date the city has received thirteen resumes regarding
the vacant council seat. He stated a Special Meeting could be held September
24, 2003 to speak with the applicants. Council Member Bushong stated it might
help if Council had a set of maybe 10 questions to ask each applicant to help
in their decision.
Council Member Ellison stated he feels Council should decide on four or five
applicants to interview. Attorney Jed Deters asked what would be the purpose
for a Special Meeting on September 24th. Mayor Moriconi stated it would be to
possibly go into Executive Session and let Council interview the applicants
individually and ask them the questions they agreed upon. He also stated they
could go into Executive Session at this meeting and then decide on the number
of applicants they want to interview.
Revenue Options Package
Mayor Moriconi stated the package shows in great detail where and how much
revenue the city is receiving with the largest amount being payroll taxes with
a close second being property taxes. Council Member Behler stated she is
concerned with Payroll Taxes decreasing to 51% from 56% in the last two fiscal
years.
Mrs. Taney, City Clerk stated she would speak to the Occupational License
Director at Kenton County and ask him to search for companies located in the
city to see if there has been an increase in layoffs but as of now the current
layoff rate is up nationally.
Mrs. Terri Hudson stated from the Revenue Options report it does appear that
there was a drop based on percentages but if you look at the monies received,
there was an increase. She asked Council to remember Tangible Taxes and
Property Taxes did increase. Mayor Moriconi stated that collections are still
down about $30,000.00 from two years ago.
Mayor Moriconi stated property taxes from new homes just this year will bring
in more than $70,000.00 in additional revenue.
Mrs. Taney, City Clerk advised that the calculation formula for the tax rate is
designed to keep cities that are having so much development from collecting too
much in taxes.
Mrs. Taney, City Clerk stated the Bank Deposit tax that was implemented in 2000
was researched by a council member and discovered that it is a tax that was
being collected by Kenton County and they were getting that money because they
had that tax and Independence didn’t and all we had to do was establish it and
adopt it and set a tax rate in order to obtain this revenue for the city. It is
a minimum of 1 percent that comes to about $30,000.00 annually
Mr. Bushong asked what a Franchise Tax was. Mrs. Taney, City Clerk advised it
is the utility companies and cable companies that pay taxes on their cable
lines throughout the city and we generally have a twenty to thirty year
contract agreement with the company.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mrs. Taney to verify how much money is owed in delinquent
property taxes. Mrs. Taney, City Clerk stated there are sixty delinquent tax
bills to date, which is about $40,000.00 to $50,000.00 out of approximately,
six thousand property tax bills.
Council Member Yeager asked if liens had been filed on these properties. Mrs.
Taney, City Clerk stated delinquent notices are automatically sent out. Council
Member Yeager asked if foreclosure has been placed on these properties.
Attorney, Jed Deters stated that PVA would file the foreclosures. He stated
delinquent property taxes are a lien against any property they are assessed
against. If the taxes are not paid, and the property sells all taxes will be
paid at the time of the closing, or you can let the taxes accumulate for eight
years which will generally make it worth your while to foreclose on the
property.
Council Member Franzen asked if anything could be done to change the eight-year
waiting period. Attorney, Jed Deters stated you do not have to wait eight years
to file foreclosures but it is better economically to file suit after eight
years due to the amount that can be collected after that period of time.
Council Member Yeager asked if the property owner would have to pay court
costs. Attorney, Jed Deters stated that is not quite so clear at this time.
Council Member Behler asked Mrs. Taney how it was decided what cities were to
be listed on the Occupational License Fee Rates Sheet and Payroll and Gross
Receipts. Mrs. Taney, City Clerk stated she obtained the info from the website
of the Kenton County Occupational License Director. She stated the county
collects for a number of cities in Kenton County for a fee of 1% of the revenue
collected.
Council Member Behler stated from the spreadsheet it shows Independence has the
second highest payroll tax in Kenton County. Mrs. Taney, City Clerk stated that
Covington is the highest and Taylor Mill is the second highest. She stated that
Mr. Rollie Richardson, of Kenton County, the Director of the Occupational
License Department advised her that changes are being proposed by the state
legislature regarding the laws for Occupational Licensing. He stated one of the
changes would be that cities could no longer tax net profits, just gross
receipts. She stated this will not affect Independence, as the city already
taxes the gross receipts. She asked council and mayor to note at bottom of
spreadsheet that Independence receives 6.7313 % of the countywide license of
$150.00 which equates to $11.78 for each business that buys a countywide
license. Council Member Yeager asked if the sub-contractors are paying payroll
taxes. Mrs. Taney advised Kevin Barbian, Building Inspector does get a list of
the sub-contractors from the contractor obtaining the permit.
Attorney, Jed Deters stated the question posed to him was can the city hold up
a building permit until the contractor submits a list of all sub-contractors
and you have time to verify if all the sub-contractors were listed. He stated
the answer was “no” because there is nothing in the current Ordinance about
issuing building permits that states it is a “condition of issuance”.
Council Member Yeager asked if the Ordinance could be changed. Attorney Jed
Deters stated one way to make a change is to enlarge the building permit
application to allow for the listing of all contractors and sub-contractors and
proof of a business license.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mrs. Taney what impact this could have on the building
inspector by adding additional work for him. Mrs. Taney, City Clerk stated it
might just slow him down if he is going to hold up on issuing building permits
if some of the sub-contractors drag their feet on obtaining a license and they
have work to do in another city.
Council Member Yeager suggested we obtain a list from Kenton County and forward
a letter to the sub-contractors that has not purchased a license. Mrs. Taney,
City Clerk stated the office receives a monthly list of every business that has
paid and how much they have paid along with the remittance check. She also
stated the problem with that is by the time they get the letter, they have
already been in the city and has moved on to another job out of the city.
Council Member Franzen asked if the City could charge builders an Impact Fee.
Mrs. Taney, City Clerk stated she had spoke with Dan Dressman of the Homeowners
Association and was advised that an impact fee was illegal in the state of
Kentucky. Council Member Franzen asked Attorney, Jed Deters to look into the
legality of this fee and if it is legal then Council should look into charging
developers $500 to $600 per home.
Mayor Moriconi stated he did not think anything could be done on the building
permit fee.
Attorney, Jed Deters stated there is a schedule under the Subdivision
Ordinances that Council would have to change to increase the fees.
Council Member Franzen asked if the payroll tax is increased one-quarter of a
percent how much would that bring in. Council Member Yeager stated it would
bring in $200,000.00.
Council Member Franzen stated the increase of payroll and the compensating rate
would bring in about half a million dollars. Chief Butler stated the budget was
based on the compensating plus four, so you will still have a revenue gap. When
the projections for revenue were made they were made on compensating plus four.
Mrs. Taney, City Clerk advised Council if they want to have an increase of one
quarter percent a first reading will need to be done at the October 6, 2003
meeting with a second reading in November because Kenton County will need the
information by mid November. Council Member Yeager requested that the Ordinance
be ready for the October 6, 2003 meeting. Council Member Behler stated she was
not in favor of the payroll tax because we want to bring new businesses into
the city and we need to look at the long term effects of such an increase, not
just the short term. She stated an insurance premium tax is probably how they
are going to have to go.
Council Member Franzen stated what Mrs. Behler is saying is right. She stated
the city is running on their reserves, which are going to be gone. Council
Member Yeager stated there are still some things that can be done within. She
stated it was discussed about getting a custodian and doing away with cleaning
services, including the mowing. Council Member Bushong stated he did not see
where that would bring in $700,000.00 that is needed.
Council Member Behler asked Mrs. Hudson if she could explain the projections
with the revenue that way it is now, how soon is the city going to be operating
in the red. Mrs. Hudson stated she did not know at this time but could have
some projections ready for the next Council Meeting.
Council Member Franzen stated she would like to explore the franchise fees and
sub-contractor payroll, which will not bring in enough revenue, but it would be
a start and will help people be more comfortable to know we are looking at
other options.
Mrs. Taney, City Clerk clarified to Mayor Moriconi she will bring the
information to increase the payroll tax twenty-five cents. Mayor Moriconi
stated that was correct.
CITY ATTORNEY REPORT
Attorney, Jed Deters stated he had nothing to report at this time.
MAYOR COMMENTS
Mayor Moriconi stated Chief Butler has to declare a horse as surplus property.
Chief Butler stated in the past the city had two horses, one of which died this
past year He stated since then the program has been done away with we have an
officer that has been caring for the horse. He stated what he would like to do
is sell the horse for $1.00 to the officer that has been caring for him the
last nine months including paying all of the expenses on the horse. Attorney,
Jed Deters stated the officer legally has an “agister lien” to care for the
horse. Chief Butler stated he would be bringing this issue back to the council
meeting in October for a vote.
Mayor Moriconi asked Chief Butler if there was an update on Crowe Road Bridge.
Chief Butler stated it was still pending. He stated they are trying to get
money from the State Emergency Disaster Fund but it could be several months or
the first of the year before anything is done.
Mayor Moriconi stated another issue that has come up is the Policy and
Procedures that will be discussed at the October Caucus Meeting. Council Member
Yeager asked what issue he referring to. Mayor Moriconi stated the annual paid
leave that is accumulated monthly.
Council Member Behler stated Kroger will be having a Fall To Do on October 25,
2003 and would like members of Council to judge the costumes.
BUSINESS RECOGNITION OF THE MONTH
Council Member Behler stated she would like to recognize Kroger.
Executive Session
Council Member Franzen made a motion to go into Executive Session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (f) with a second by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried
with all ayes.
Council Member Ellison made a motion to return to regular session; seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
ADJOURNMENT
Council Member Yeager made a motion to adjourn, with second by Council Member
Franzen. Motion carried and the meeting was adjourned at 8:30 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
                     City of Independence, Kentucky
Attest:
___________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant City Clerk
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
SEPTEMBER 15, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special Session on Monday,
September 15, 2003 at 6:30 p.m. at the Independence Senior Citizens and
Community Center with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding in the Chair. Mayor
Moriconi called the meeting to order. The roll was called and the following
council members registered present: Carol Franzen, Jim Bushong, Mary Pat
Behler, Donna Yeager and Jim Ellison. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters.
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the purpose of the special meeting was for the
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   Discussion and possible action to approve a Text Amendment to add outdoor
dining as a Conditional Use in the NC and NSC Zone. – Ordinance No. 2003-0-16 –
2nd Reading.
∙   Discussion and possible action adopting a 2003 Tax Rate for Real and
Personal Property. – Ordinance No. 2003-0-17 – 2nd Reading.
∙   Executive Session (if necessary)
Ordinance No. 2003-O-16 – Approving a text amendment to add Outdoor Dining as a
Conditional Use in the NC and NSC Zone – 2nd Reading
3.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2003-O-16, approving a text amendment to add outdoor dining as a conditional
use in the NC and NSC Zone. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2003-0-16. Council
Member Franzen moved with a second by Council Member Ellison to adopt Ordinance
2003-0-16. Roll call was answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-17 – Setting the 2003 Tax Rate for Real Estate and
Personal Property
4.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading, Ordinance No.
2003-O-17 approving the 2003 tax rate for real and personal property. Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2003-O-17.
5.   Council Member Yeager moved with a second by Council Member Behler to
adopt Ordinance 2003-O-17. Roll call was answered unanimously; motion carried
5-0.
Adjournment
6.   Upon motion by Council Member Franzen and second by Council Member Bushong
the meeting was adjourned.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
_________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky.
September 24, 2003
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special
Session on Wednesday, September 24, 2003 at 6:30 p.m. in the Independence
Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding
in the Chair. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. The roll was called
and the following council members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim
Ellison, Carol Franzen, and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed
K. Deters. (Note: Council Member, Jim Bushong was not present during roll call,
but was a late arrival.)
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the purpose of this special meeting was for the
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   To enter into an Executive Session for the purpose of conducting individual
interviews of the candidates for the vacated council seat and related
discussion thereof.
∙   To discuss an unrelated personnel issue
∙   Discuss and possibly take action on appointing a replacement for the
vacated council seat.
3.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the city received thirteen applications for
the council seat and that the top three finalists would be interviewed
individually in executive session. He stated that council has selected him to
be the moderator and that each candidate has been allotted twenty minutes time
during which he will ask each the ten questions assembled by the council
members.
Executive Session
4.   Council Member Yeager moved to enter into executive session according to
KRS 61.810 (f) for the purposed of discussing personnel issues, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
5.   Council Member Franzen moved to return to the regular session, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
Appointment to Fill the Vacated Council Seat
6.   Mayor Moriconi expressed gratitude to the three candidates: Tom Brinker,
Eric Dupps and David Millward for their time and involvement in this process.
7.   A motion was made by Council Member Ellison and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to appoint Eric Dupps to the position of Council Member thereby filling
the seat vacated when Otis Ketron resigned. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
8.   Mayor Moriconi advised that Mr. Dupps would take the Oath of Office prior
to the next meeting of council. He advised there may be a special meeting
scheduled for next week and if so the swearing-in of Mr. Dupps would be at that
time, and if not, it would take place at the October 6th meeting.
Adjournment
9.   Upon motion by Council Member Ellison and second by Council Member Yeager
the meeting was adjourned at 8:15 p.m.
______________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
City of Independence, Kentucky
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky.
October 6, 2003
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
October 6, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant of the Grace
Community Church gave the invocation.
2.   Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Eric Dupps as the candidate selected by
Council to serve out the unexpired term of Council Member Otis Ketron who
resigned in August. Mayor Moriconi welcomed and congratulated Mr. Dupps. Mayor
Moriconi administered the Oath of Office to Mr. Dupps as an Independence City
Council Member.
3.   The following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim
Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present
was City Attorney, Jed Deters.
Recognition
4.   Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Behler had selected Kroger’s food
store as recipient of the Business of the Month tribute for October. Mayor
Moriconi presented Kroger’s manager, Mr. John Dubrocq with the plaque of
recognition.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 8, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September
8, 2003 regular meeting of council. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second from Council Member Ellison. Council Member Ellison noted amendments;
roll call was answered with five yeas with Council Member Dupps passing. Motion
carried.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 15, 2003 Special Council Meeting
6.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September
15, 2003 special meeting of council. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second from Council Member Bushong. Roll call was answered with five yeas with
Council Member Dupps passing. Motion carried.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 15, 2003 Caucus Meeting
7.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the caucus
meeting held on September 15, 2003. Council Member Behler so moved, with second
from Council Member Franzen. Roll call was answered with five yeas with Council
Member Dupps passing. Motion carried.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 24, 2003 Special Council Meeting
8.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September
24, 2003 special council meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
from Council Member Franzen. Council Member Ellison noted an amendment. Roll
call was answered with five yeas, with Council Member Dupps passing. Motion
carried.
Privileges of the Floor
9.   Wanda White, 5220 Madison Pike requested JoAnne Cobble be permitted to
speak on her behalf.
10.   Mayor Moriconi stated that in the interest of fairness, that he would not
permit everyone to give his or her three minutes speaking time to Mrs. Cobble.
He advised that council is not required to permit public addresses and that
yielding the floor to the spectators is considered a privilege. Council Member
Behler stated that she would prefer to hear individual opinions and not the
viewpoint uttered through one person, that being Mrs. Cobble. Council Member
Franzen agreed, stating that others too may want more speaking time. Mayor
Moriconi asked if there was anyone in attendance that wanted to address council
on a matter other than the proposed adoption of additional taxes.
11.   Kathy Eggleston, 6336 Taylor Mill Road, addressed council regarding a
proposal to construct storage units on her property. She stated that she feels
there is a need for this type of facility in the city so that residents can
park and store their boats, campers, etc. She stated she has 15 acres and the
property is bordered by Ponzer’s golf driving range. Ms. Eggleston stated that
the rear section of this property is currently zoned RRE which does not allow
this type of facility. City Attorney, Jed Deters advised that two options were
probably available to her; 1) apply for a text amendment that would provide for
a permitted or conditional use, or 2) apply for a zone change. Council Member
Bushong suggested that she check into the options before deciding the best
course of action. Mr. Deters stated he could draft a resolution of support for
council’s consideration at the caucus meeting.
12.   Robert McCubbin, 33 McMillan Drive, addressed council regarding speeding
cars on his street. He stated he has lived there for two years and has
complained to the Police Department. He stated it has become a safety concern
for the children playing in the area and requested that police run radar to
catch the violators. Mayor Moriconi advised that Chief Butler would look into
the matter.
13.   Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, addressed council expressing his
opposition to the proposed enactment of an insurance premium tax. He stated he
objects to this type of tax, as it cannot be taken as a tax deduction at year-
end. He asked that council give the citizens the opportunity to vote to enact
such a tax during a general election.
14.   Council Member Behler asked Mr. Nienaber if he was under the assumption
that the city would tax health insurance. Mr. Nienaber commented that every
city that has the insurance premium tax also taxes health insurance, except the
City of Fort Wright. Council Member Behler assured Mr. Nienaber that
Independence was not proposing to tax health and life insurances. Council
Member Franzen corroborated Council Member Behler’s statement and pointed out
that the proposed ordinance specifically exempts health and life insurance from
this tax.
15.   Vic Morrison, 100 Roselawn Drive, advised council that the audio doesn’t
work making it difficult for television viewers at home to hear the
conversation. He urged the council members to listen to the people that
supported and voted them into office. He stated that council should first prove
this tax is needed and then put it on the general election ballot for voter
approval.
16.   John Little, 6413 Jimae Avenue, addressed council regarding the proposed
insurance premium tax by saying he would support the tax if it was really
needed, but he felt that the council was presenting this tax wrong. Mayor
Moriconi stated that he felt the citizens have heard inaccurate information
with regard to the actual dollar amount that would be realized.
17.   Glenna Faulkner, 22 Carrie Way, addressed council to oppose the proposal
of new taxes. She stated she is 69 years of age, in poor health and on a fixed
income. She stated she pays $220 per month for just one prescription and after
paying her monthly expenses she has nothing left to live on.
18.   Lin Lucas, 5196 Madison Pike, expressed her opposition to the enactment
of an insurance premium tax. She stated she doesn’t see where it would be spent
on needed items, just wants. She stated the city needs basics, like sidewalks.
19.   Council Member Bushong advised that the city is trying to raise revenues
so that we can discontinue the practice of drawing from the reserve account to
make ends meet.
20.   Karl Lucas, 5196 Madison Pike, addressed council by stating he opposes
the tax. He stated people spend their lives working hard and the last thing
they need is more taxes. He stated that if the city can’t afford new things why
is a new police department building being constructed.
21.   Council Member Behler encouraged the citizens to talk to the members of
council so they can have the opportunity to explain the deficit the city is
facing in the near future.
22.   Tom Brinker, 1192 Constitution Drive, encouraged council to provide
copies of the budget to those who oppose raising taxes so that they can
contribute their suggestions for possible cuts. He advised the citizens that
the new city administration building that is under construction couldn’t be
blamed on the current administration.
23.   Sandy Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane, stated she would like this council to
consider the matter of making needed street repairs to Justice Lane. She stated
that she also opposes the insurance premium tax. She stated the city recently
imposed the bank deposit tax and increased the payroll taxes and that her
personal opinion is that the citizens should not have to pay more. Mayor
Moriconi advised Ms. Woolum to contact the city attorney regarding repairs to
Justice Lane.
24.   Donna Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, expressed her opposition to the insurance
premium tax proposal by council by stating that the city has a champagne taste
on a beer pocketbook. She stated the tax should be placed on the ballot for the
people to decide.
25.   Doris King, 1906 Independence Road, stated she opposed the tax based on
her belief that it is an unfair tax. She stated that a family consisting of
mainly male drivers would pay a higher premium. She stated this community has
always been known for caring about it’s people. She stated she can’t believe
the city has needed to pull $500,000 from the reserve account each year. Mayor
Moriconi stated it has been necessary to keep up with street repairs. Ms. King
stated the city should be more vigilant with the subdivision developers.
Council Member Franzen commented that this problem didn’t just happen
yesterday, it has been coming for some time and the city is now faced with no
other choice but to raise revenues. She stated they have been left with no
other choice and is open to suggestions from the citizens on how the city can
save $600,000 each year. Council Member Franzen commented that this council has
been put in this leadership role to do what is right for the city even if
voting in favor of new taxes is not the popular choice to make.
26.   Carol Bach, 5287 Madison Pike, stated that she has been a business owner
in Independence for thirty-five years and she realizes that because she is not
a resident that she will not have a vote regarding the tax issue. She stated
that she opposes the tax increase as citizens are taxed to death. Ms. Bach
stated that the city has done nothing to develop the downtown area. She urged
council to put any new tax increases on the ballot for the people to decide.
27.   Kermit Ballmer, 689 Independence Station Road, commented that three
months ago petitions opposing increased taxes were being circulated to submit
to the city leaders. He asked how often it would be necessary to present such
petitions to the council. He stated he also opposes the vehicle sticker tax as
any additional tax will be a hardship to the senior citizens who are already
burdened by the cost of prescriptions
28.   Eric W. Thomas, 6406 Jimae Court, addressed council by stating they have
a fiscal responsibility to balance the city’s budget. He stated the city should
not spend money they do not have and then raise revenues to cover the
shortfalls in the budget. He stated that with the property tax base continuing
to rise, city officials must learn to manage the related costs. Mr. Thomas
commented that as the parent of teenage children, his automobile insurance
premium increased drastically last year and he feels that he shouldn’t have the
additional burden of a tax on this premium just because the city can’t balance
the budget. He went on to say that if the city needed additional revenue to
maintain the streets that they should implement a road tax.
29.   Council Member Franzen commented that not everyone on council is fiscally
irresponsible and urged the citizens to check her voting record.
30.   Cecilia Dennis, 4975 Oliver Road, stated that she has been talking to
council members for years about what she wants and they listen but don’t act on
her suggestions. She commented that sidewalks are badly needed in the downtown
business area as well as other improvements. She commented that the sidewalks
are in such bad condition that it is dangerous to travel them at night during
the Christmas Walk event in December. She expressed concern on how the tax
dollars are being spent and stated that she feels the city should find ways to
cut expenses.
31.   Aaron J. Wayman, 7 Apple Lane, informed council that he opposes
additional taxes. He advised that the city should not spend money until they
have the funds to do so. He urged council to figure out how to give tax cuts
instead of increasing taxes.
32.   J. George Sanders, 5268 Pioneer Drive, stated that he too does not like
taxes and he wonders how the city has found itself in this position. He stated
that with the exception of council members Behler and Franzen, the other four
members have previously held a seat on the council when the excess funds were
spent. He stated that the city needs the basic services that he believes are
police and fire protection and public works and everything else is gravy. He
stated that last year the city spent $120,000 for the Senior Center expenses
and suggested this building be rented as often as possible. In closing, Mr.
Sanders urged council to limit unnecessary spending to make an effort to
rectify the current budget deficit and after that is done and they find it is
still necessary to impose additional taxes perhaps the citizens will be
supportive of council.
33.   Fred White, 5220 Madison Pike, commented that he has lived in
Independence since 1936 and feels that taxes are already too high.
34.   Michael W. Little, 10897 Griststone, stated that he moved to Shaw Estates
subdivision about four years ago and the low property tax rate was a
consideration when re-locating to this area. He stated that he opposes the
insurance premium tax and the insurance companies will tack on an additional
administration fee. He stated that it doesn’t make sense to construct new city
buildings when the city is experiencing a budget shortfall. He stated that
there is a trust issue here as the residents feel their current tax dollars
have not been spent wisely and deserve an explanation as to where the funds
have been spent. Mr. Little stated that the seniors especially cannot pay more
taxes and that council should make more of an effort to correct the
overspending.
35.   Council Member Bushong asked what kind of fee Mr. Little was referring
to. Mr. Deters advised that the insurance companies are entitled to charge an
administration fee to collect and remit the taxes to the city. Mayor Moriconi
explained that it is the insurance companies that the city is taxing, but that
they pass this tax onto their customers, the policyholders.
36.   JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, addressed council by stating she was
opposed to increasing taxes and asked why council felt it was urgent to act
now. Mayor Moriconi advised that three proposed ordinances imposing a new tax
or increasing a current tax was on the agenda for first readings. He stated
they would not become law until the second reading and that there are state
and/or county clerk deadlines for submitting the information regarding the
taxes. He stated the insurance premium tax requires the ordinance information
be submitted 100 days prior to July 1. Mrs. Cobble commented that 100 days
would permit the city until March 23, 2004 to pass this ordinance. Mayor
Moriconi responded that council was originally informed that the effective
deadline was January 1. Council Member Dupps commented that the urgency was two
years ago when the city was beginning to experience the budget shortfall and
raising additional revenue should have been discussed at that time.
37.   Mrs. Cobble commented that the time limit was noted in the Revenue
Options report they were presented. Council Member Behler commented that they
are given a lot of information to review and sometimes they will overlook a
particular piece of data. Council Member Franzen stated that the consideration
of raising revenue is not a sudden idea as it was discussed at an open budget
summit in March of this year. She added that no residents attended this open
meeting, which was held on a Saturday.
38.   Mrs. Cobble pointed to the May 5th council meeting minutes wherein
Council Member Franzen is recorded as explaining that council never intended to
adopt the insurance premium tax ordinance in an underhanded manner and would
hold town hall meetings to garner citizen input. Council Member Franzen took
issue with Mrs. Cobble’s suggestion and countered that the tax issue has been
discussed many times in open council meetings, which have been advertised to
the public.
39.   Mrs. Cobble stated that the she does not believe the city is under a time
deadline, and has six months to give this more consideration. Council Member
Behler concurred with Council Member Franzen and again pointed out that the
city held a Budget Summit in March and no citizens attended to offer their
input regarding the city’s financial situation. Mayor Moriconi advised that at
the time of the caucus meeting the city was under the assumption that January
1, 2004 was the deadline to provide the information to the state agencies. He
also addressed Mrs. Cobble’s allegation that the meetings are not effectively
advertised on the city’s marquee sign. He asserted the city has advertised the
meetings on the sign to generate public awareness.
40.   Mrs. Cobble read excerpts from the Revenue Options report that was
provided to council. She expressed concern that the estimated revenue that
would be generated by imposing a 5% insurance premium tax on all insurance
policies except health and life was $659,681.00. She stated that compared to
the $1,042,571 revenue generated from the property taxes, the insurance tax was
63%; and argued that this would be the tax percentage increase the residents
would face.
41.   Council Member Franzen encouraged public attendance at the next meeting
wherein these ordinances will be presented for second readings. Mrs. Cobble
argued that she felt it was wrong to impose taxes that are not permitted as a
tax deduction.
42.   Mrs. Cobble stated that the property tax rate couldn’t be increased more
than 4% over the compensating rate without being subject to voter recall. Mayor
Moriconi stated the property tax ordinance for 2003 was adopted and that it
will not be subjected to voter recall, as the city did not exceed the 4%
allowed by law. Mrs. Cobble asked the Mayor what he feels was the intention of
the state legislators when the 4% cap was enacted by K.R.S. Council Member
Behler asked Mrs. Cobble where she was going with this line of questioning.
Mrs. Cobble stated that her point was that by imposing a 5% insurance tax the
revenue produced would be a 63% increase to the taxpayers. City Attorney, Jed
Deters, advised that a 4% increase over the compensating rate of property taxes
is an ad valorem on the value of property and there is no correlation between
the two types of tax. He stated that she is comparing apples to oranges. Mrs.
Cobble argued that if this council enacts the insurance premium tax they would
be increasing the tax burden on the residents by 63%.
43.   Mrs. Cobble referred to the Revenue Options report wherein the insurance
premium tax revenue projections estimated that a 5% tax would be $44.03 per
capita. She stated that, per the 2000 census, the average family consisted of
4.2 people and at $44.03 per capita would realize $176; coupled with the 2%
administration fee charged by the insurance companies, the average family would
pay $202.40 in additional taxes. Council Member Franzen disagreed, and advised
that she called her insurance company and as informed she would pay an
additional $100 per year. She urged everyone to discuss this with his or her
insurance company and get the correct information based on their current
premium payments.
44.   Mrs. Cobble stated that last year’s revenue generated from property taxes
was $1,042,571 and that the estimated revenue that would be received by
imposing a 5% insurance premium tax would be $659,681; a 63% tax increase that
will be a burden on many of the residents.
45.   Council Member Behler stated that she feels the numbers being cited by
Mrs. Cobble are being taken out of context. She stated that if she is wrong
about this she will admit it at the next caucus meeting, but asserted that she
did not agree with Mrs. Cobble’s conclusions regarding the financial effect
this tax would have.
46.   Again, Council Member Franzen urged everyone to check with his or her
insurance company for an accurate quote regarding the additional dollars they
would pay if this tax was imposed. Mayor Moriconi commented that he, too,
called his insurance company and was informed that he would pay an additional
$100 per year.
47.   Mrs. Cobble stressed that the city council needs to know all the facts
before having a first reading of this ordinance. She stated that when she spoke
to the state Attorney General’s office today that she learned that the
insurance premium tax does not permit special exemptions, such as senior
citizens. She also questioned if the Kenton County Fiscal Court and other
agencies such as the School Board were considered in the projected revenue
figures, as this tax could be costly to these agencies. She stated that she
felt the city attorney should research all possibilities before the first
reading of this ordinance. Mrs. Cobble stated that she was not here to
criticize so much as she wanted to ensure that council is aware that the facts
need to be addressed and urged council to table the first reading of the
insurance premium tax.
48.   Mrs. Cobble stated that she has learned that Independence’s property tax
rate ranks in the top five cities of the fifteen cities in Kenton County.
Council Member Franzen countered that most other cities have imposed the
insurance premium tax and while other cities may have a lower property tax rate
they have higher taxes overall.
49.   Council Member Bushong stated that it is possible that the Fiscal Court
is self-insured, in which case they would not pay insurance premium taxes.
Recess
50.   Council Member Franzen moved to take a brief recess, seconded by Council
Member Yeager. Motion carried.
51.   Council Member Yeager moved to resume the regular session of the meeting;
seconded by Council Bushong. Motion carried.
52.   Council Member Ellison suggested tabling the insurance premium tax first
reading. Mayor Moriconi stated that could be discussed under new business.
Recognition of Police Chief, Shawn Butler
53.   Mayor Moriconi stated that some citizens have come forward with a request
to be given the opportunity to commend Chief Butler at tonight’s meeting. He
introduced Mr. Vic Morrison.
54.   Mr. Morrison stated that he is a long time resident and has supported
both local and state police departments for over twenty-five years. He stated
he wanted to compliment the Independence Police Department and Chief Butler. He
presented Chief Butler with a certificate from the Natural Resources and
Environment Cabinet commissioning him the rank of admiral, a certificate
recognizing him as a Kentucky Colonel and a Certificate of Appreciation from
the House of Representatives, with sincere congratulations to Chief Butler for
his public safety efforts both on the state and local level. Mr. Morrison
stated that October 10, 2003 has been declared Chief Butler Day. Chief Butler
thanked Mr. Morrison and stated that receiving this recognition makes the job
worthwhile.
Ordinance No. 2003-O-18 – Prohibiting the Keeping or Harboring of Barking Dogs
– 2nd Reading
55.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2003-O-18 that would address the problem of frequent and habitual barking of
dogs that disturb the peace of residents. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2003-O-
18.
56.   Council Member Behler moved, with second by Council Member Franzen to
adopt Ordinance No. 2003-O-18. Roll call was answered with five yeas and one
pass from Council Member Dupps. Motion carried.
Amendment of the Senior/Community Center Rental Policy
57.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council the Senior/Community Rental Policy
with the amendments regarding rental of the center on major holidays as was
discussed at the last caucus meeting.
58.   Council Member Bushong moved, with second by Council Member Behler to
adopt the Senior/Community Center rental policy as amended. Council Member
Ellison suggested an additional text amendment on page three that would provide
that additional police security should be restricted to city police officers as
the first choice over county officers. Hearing no objections to this text
change, it was so noted and roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Damage to Sidewalks, Curbs and Streets – 1st
Reading
59.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their consideration a proposed
ordinance that would amend Ordinance No. 1997-O-10. He stated the city has been
incurring an expense to repair damage done to the sidewalks, curbs and streets
by the building contractors, which has prompted the need to apply stricter
regulations. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
60.   Council Member Franzen stated that it has been suggested that
Independence should delay the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for new
construction until the sidewalks or other curb or street damage is repaired.
She stated that the city’s Building Inspector is agreeable to this. Mr. Deters
advised that the city can actually revoke a Certificate of Occupancy if
necessary. Mayor Moriconi advised the second reading of this ordinance will be
at the November 3rd council meeting.
Declare Surplus Property – Police Department Mounted Patrol Horse
61.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the Police Department has decided to
discontinue the Mounted Patrol Program as they are currently have only one
remaining horse. He stated that Chief Butler would like to declare this horse
as surplus property and allow the current caretaker to keep the horse.
62.   Council Member Ellison moved to declare the horse as surplus property,
seconded by Council Franzen. Council Member Ellison questioned why the horse
would not be put up for bids. Mr. Deters advised that the current caretaker
basically has what is called an adjister lien against the city for the expenses
that have been incurred for providing food and shelter to the horse. He stated
that it has been determined that the value of the horse is less that the lien.
Roll call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Discussion Regarding the Bid Received for the Purchase of the Administration
Building
63.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the city only received one bid for the
purchase of the Administration Building. He stated the bid was for $200,000 and
that council could either accept or reject the bid. Mayor Moriconi advised the
city could continue to advertise and place a ‘for sale’ sign in front of the
building.
64.   Mr. Deters advised that this business would be more appropriate for
discussion in executive session. Council Member Ellison so moved, with second
by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Imposing An Auto Sticker Tax
65.   Mayor Moriconi presented the proposed ordinance that would impose an auto
sticker fee for council’s consideration. Mr. Deters stated that he has
submitted a rough draft for this ordinance but that it does not have enough
substance to warrant a first reading, unless council can establish the
specifics now.
66.   Council Member Yeager asked Mr. Deters if he review similar ordinances
from local cities. He stated that he did. She suggested a $12.00 per year fee,
which would equate to $1 per month and would be less draining on the senior
residents of the city. Mr. Deters stated he would also need to know what the
collection process would be so that it could be stated in the ordinance.
67.   Council Member Bushong stated he believes that the sticker fee and a
licensing fee are very different. Council Member Yeager advised that this
proposal is not an ad valorem tax. Council Member Ellison commented that it is
yet to be determined.
68.   Mr. Deters advised that the proposed ordinance, at this time is a
skeletal draft. Council Member Yeager asked that the blank rate be filled in
with $12.00 per year.
69.   Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Deters if it was legal to provide a
rebate of the insurance premium tax to senior citizens. Mr. Deters advised he
would have to research the statutes. Council Member Bushong stated he has
learned that it is illegal; that the city cannot arbitrarily decide who to
exempt.
70.   Mr. Deters advised that since there are too many questions regarding this
tax, he suggested postponing the first reading until a more definitive
ordinance can be submitted.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 1997-O-27 the Business License,
Fees, Payroll and Gross Receipts Tax
71.   Council Member Franzen suggested having the first reading of the business
license payroll tax increase and the insurance premium tax at a special
meeting. She stated that hopefully council would be able to find solutions that
will determine the new tax unnecessary. Council Member Behler concurred.
Council Member Yeager commented that the revenue generated by the vehicle
sticker fee will help the seniors pay less and increase the city’s general
revenue.
72.   Council Member Behler commented that the city’s payroll tax rate is the
third highest in Kenton County and feels that increasing the rate .25% will
make the city very unattractive to businesses.
73.   Council Member Yeager stated that she is not in favor of any new tax or
tax increase but prefers the payroll tax rate increase to the insurance premium
tax. Council Member Behler stated that it is shortsighted of the city to look
to the payroll tax as the leading solution to the revenue shortage.
74.   Mr. Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, criticized council for not presenting
more exact figures. He stated he wanted to hear the truth and feels that
council is unable to tell him anything. Council Member Franzen countered that
it is difficult to project the exact revenue that will be generated, as we do
not have access to the exact information needed to arrive at a more definite
dollar amount. Council Member Ellison and Mayor Moriconi tried to explain that
the best estimates are nothing more than that estimates. Council Member Dupps
stated that the property tax revenue is also an estimated figure. Mr. Cobble
protested that others should share part of the tax burden and not just the
residents. Council Member Behler stated that the city has to provide services
to all its residents and there is no guarantee that enough revenue will be
generated to provide the necessary services.
75.   At this time Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance that would increase
the payroll tax from 1.25% to 1.50%. No roll called. Mayor Moriconi announced
this ordinance would be presented for a second reading at the November meeting
of council.
Proposed Ordinance – Imposing a License Fee Upon Insurance Companies
76.   Council Member Ellison made a motion to table the first reading of the
insurance premium tax, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Council Member
Franzen stated there was no reason to delay the first reading of this
ordinance, since this matter has been discussed since March. She stated there
would be time to hear additional citizen comments regarding this tax at the
caucus meeting on October 20, 2003.
77.   Roll call was answered with two yes votes cast by Council Members Ellison
and Yeager and four no votes cast by Council Members Bushong, Dupps, Franzen
and Behler. Motion was defeated 4-2.
78.   Mr. Deters proceeded to read the proposed ordinance that would impose a
license fee upon insurance companies.
79.   Council Member Bushong remarked that the caucus meeting will be an open
forum for citizen comments. He also suggested that a sufficient number of
copies of the budget be available at the meeting so everyone can see where the
expenses are.
80.   Mayor Moriconi advised the matter would be discussed again at the caucus
meeting and then the second reading and vote would take place at the November
3rd council meeting.
Discussion Relating to Street Construction
81.   Council Member Franzen proposed that an ordinance be drafted that would
require new streets to be constructed of concrete versus asphalt in the new
residential developments. Council Member Ellison commented that he partially
agrees with Council Member Franzen, but blacktop is easier to maintain. He
stated that he feels whatever pavement material is used that it should be
contiguous throughout the development. He stated that currently there are two
types of concrete being used and feels the city should restrict that to one
type. Mr. Deters commented that the Subdivision Regulations adopted by the city
probably have specs to that effect. Council Member Dupps expressed concern that
concrete versus asphalt repairs could have an adverse affect on the city
budget. Council Members Ellison and Franzen concurred that the city should
prohibit the final overlay from being installed until all heavy construction is
completed in the development. Mr. Deters stated that he will review the matter
and work on a proposed ordinance for council’s consideration. Council Member
Behler suggested having the city engineer address council regarding this matter
at the next caucus meeting.
Further Discussion of the Insurance Premium Tax Ordinance
82.   Council Member Bushong suggested the proposed ordinance include language
that would place a five-year moratorium on the tax rate so that it couldn’t be
raised higher than the 5% for at least five years. Mr. Deters stated the
additional language would not have an effect on the first reading done earlier
in the meeting.
Executive Session
83.   Council Member Behler moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing pending
litigation, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
84.   Council Member Ellison moved to return to regular session, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Reject the Bid Received for the Purchase of the Administration Building
85.   Council Member Behler moved to reject the bid received in the amount of
$200,000 for the purchase of the City Administration Building and advertise an
asking price of $280,000 for the building. Council Member Ellison seconded the
motion. Roll call was unanimous and the motion carried 6-0 in favor of
rejecting the bid.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
86.   No report.
Adjournment
87.   There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong to adjourn. Motion carried and the meeting
ended at 10:38 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
OCTOBER 20, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY.
COUNCIL CAUCUS MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence met on Monday, October 20, 2003 at
7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Council Members Eric Dupps, Donna Yeager, Mary Pat Behler, Jim
Bushong and Carol Franzen answered roll call. Council Member Jim Ellison was
not present. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters and Finance
Director, Teresa Franklin Hudson.
Mayor Moriconi stated before privileges of the floor are permitted Council
Member Franzen asked to present to the audience her view of the different tax
options being considered and the shortfalls of each.
Council Member Franzen stated the fiscal year budget has a shortfall of
$610,826.00 and in order for the city to stay in the “black” the city had to
transfer approximately $600,000.00 out of the general reserve fund. She advised
that at that rate the reserve fund will be depleted by the summer of 2005.
Council Member Franzen stated the Kenton County Clerk advised her there are
approximately 14,005 cars in the City of Independence. At an annual charge of
$12.00 per car with the county charging $1.00 per car collection fee, the
revenue generated would be $154,055.00. That will leave a shortfall of
$456,771.00 in the general operating fund. Other options to consider would be
to close the Senior Citizens Center and sell it, or ask the Senior Board of
Directors to be responsible for the entire expenses of the building. She stated
another option would be to eliminate the Parks and Recreation Department,
thereby saving the city $251,081.00. She stated if we add $251,081.00 to
$154,055.00 there would still be a budget shortfall of $205,690.00. Another
option, if legal, would be to charge a vehicle sticker fee of $46.00 per
vehicle which would generate $630,225.00, which would allow the city to keep
the Senior Center and Parks/Recreation Departments. She stated that would cover
the shortfall for this year, however there are legal issues with this and the
tax dollars could only be used for certain things. She stated the fee could be
raised to $55.00 per car at a later date, but the shortfall continues. The last
option would be to close or sell the Senior Citizen Center and close the Parks
and Recreation Department and charge $27.00 per car that would generate
$364,130.00 tax dollars per year. That amount, added to the $251,081.00 for the
two closures, would cover the shortfall for this year. Council Member Franzen
stated another tax to consider would be the payroll tax. She asked everyone to
keep in mind if the payroll tax is increased the city has the potential to lose
business in the city. She stated the current rate being considered is ¼% or
.25, which would generate $218,353.00 in additional revenue. She stated adding
that amount to the current deficiet the city would still be $392,473.00 short.
She stated if the city increases the payroll tax and imposes the motor vehicle
tax to $12.00 per car, revenue would be increased by $372,408.00. She stated
there would still be a shortfall of $238,418.00. If the city increases the
payroll tax and imposes the vehicle sticker fee, eliminates the Senior Center
and Parks and Recreation Departments the city will be in the “black”
$12,663.00.
Council Member Franzen stated the other option is the insurance premium tax.
She stated it is estimated that a 5% raise on all insurance premiums, except
health and life insurance, would generate $659,681.00. She stated these are her
calculations but will not know the exact amount generated until the tax is
actually collected. She stated this money would cover the city’s shortfall.
Council Member Franzen stated she has calculated some sample insurance premiums
that include the tax premiums along with the collection fees. She stated the
collection fee charged by insurance companies is permitted by state law and the
city has no control over this, except contact our state representative and ask
him or her to lobby for a change to this law.
1.   A premium of $500.00 for 1 year would have a tax of $25.00 plus a 15%
collection fee of $3.75. The collection fee would be 15% of the total tax,
which would be $25.00 or 2% of the total premium, whichever is less. That would
be a total of $28.75 per year or $7.18 per quarter.
2.   A premium of $1,200.00 per year at 5% would be $60.00 with a $9.00
collection fee or $17.25 quarterly.
3.   A premium of $3,000.00 per year at 5% would be $150.00 plus a collection
fee of $22.50 for a total of $172.50 or $43.15 quarterly.
4.   A premium of $5,000.00 per year at 5% would be $250.00 per year plus a
collection fee of $37.50 or $287.50 a year a year or $71.88 quarterly
5.   A premium of $8,000.00 per year at 5% would be $400.00 per year plus a
collection fee of $60.00 or $460.00 a year or $115.00 quarterly.
Council Member Franzen stated she has heard comments that the insurance premium
tax will cost the citizens thousands of dollars a year. She explained that In
order to pay $1,000.00 per year in tax, you would have to be paying on a
premium of $20,000.00 per year.
Council Member Behler stated she spoke with the Chamber of Commerce and their
feeling is that most businesses prefer a premium tax in lieu of a payroll tax.
Council Member Behler stated she also spoke to Dr. Susan Cooke, Superintendent
of the Kenton County Board of Education and was advised they are coming up with
a response regarding the proposed tax options.
Council Member Franzen stated that other pending matters before the city that
needs to be taken into consideration is that the city has $400,000.00 in bridge
repairs on Crowe Road that does not include needed repairs to the road that
currently is slipping into the creek. She stated she has spoken to Jeff Smith
of the Public Works Department and was informed there are nineteen new streets
this year and next year the city will probably take over maintenance of twenty
more. All of these streets have to be maintained and plowed in the winter. She
stated Mr. Smith also informed her that Kenton County has lost a truck from
their fleet and in order to keep up with the street plowing, with the addition
of the new streets the city may have to purchase a new truck.
In closing, Council Member Franzen asked the audience to please keep in mind
that the budget shortfalls did not occur overnight.
Council Member Yeager stated she would like to make a comment. She stated that
“hell hath no fury like seniors and children” if you take away the Senior
Center and Parks Departments. She stated with the payroll tax and the vehicle
sticker fee, along with the compensating property tax rate plus the additional
4%, together with tightening our belts the city can make it.
Council Member Franzen commented that it will not stop the “bleeding”.
Privileges of the Floor
Kermit Ballmer, 689 Independence Station Rd, Mr. Ballmer stated in regards to
the ordinance on the car sticker, there are people living in condos and rental
property that the insurance tax will not affect. He stated his concern with the
payroll tax is current unemployment is over 6% and if you raise the payroll tax
there is no reason why the businesses in the industrial area and in the city
would not look for other tax free areas to relocate. Mr. Ballmer stated if the
city keeps increasing taxes it will kill the growth of the city and people are
going to move to the residential areas in the unincorporated areas of the
county. He stated that Mayor and Council were elected to have financial
responsibility and the taxpayers did not give them a blank check. He stated
after reviewing the budget he feels there are a few areas that need tightened.
He stated there are a lot of new subdivisions that have new streets that should
last ten to fifteen years and require no maintenance plus we have state and
county roads in the city that require no maintenance that would leave
approximately 5% of the old Independence streets that need to be resurfaced
every five to ten years on a rotating basis. Mr. Ballmer stated the Public
Works Department could be reduced or eliminated and save $134,000.00 that
oversees this department. He stated there are two parks in the city that belong
to the county and there is no reason why the county cannot maintain the city
parks and save the city $136,000.00. He stated there are a few city cars that
could be eliminated and employees could drive their own cars and be reimbursed
for their mileage. He stated there is saving salaries such as workman’s comp,
health insurance, leasing fees, overtime, equipment and retirement expenses. He
stated the taxpayers are angry. He stated there has been a voter recall in the
state of California but did not think he could get enough votes to have a
recall on council. He stated the budget has to be tightened and institute
budget cuts, not tax increases. He stated a bond was floated for the city
building, private money donated for the amphitheater and that leaves the Senior
Center, which an effort needs to be put forth to obtain private donations to
finish the cost of the building. Living within your means is a direction the
city needs to adopt. Families today are over extended and filing bankruptcy. He
stated there is a state law that says a city cannot file bankruptcy but if
things cannot be gotten under control, then maybe it is time for the state to
step in and take control until the city gets back on level ground.
Darrel Herald, 10868 Griststone Circle, stated he is a Vice President at
Provident Bank with his background in accounting and finance. He thanked the
staff at the city building for being so professional and courteous. He stated
he obtained a copy of the finance reports for years ending June 2002 and June
2003 as well as the budget for fiscal 2004. He stated the police budget is such
a large part of the budget and in seeing that he looked at the population,
number of employees and police officers in the Kenton County and in doing so he
found per capita the city is not the highest or the lowest but somewhere in the
middle. He stated that safety for his family is very important to him and also
community safety is very important. He stated he wants the best equipped, best
trained; best manned police force in the state of Kentucky. He stated the
changes he would propose would exempt the police department. He would not
impose any changes at this time. He stated in looking at the other numbers he
felt the amounts appeared to be reasonable but the fact remains the
expenditures for this fiscal year are projected to be $600,000.00 more than
what revenues are projected. He stated that is largely due to our commitment to
the Senior Citizens Building as well as the Municipal Building. He stated he
wants to live in a community where we do have a nice Municipal Building and a
fine police force and a place for our senior citizens to go, but at the same
time he wants to live in a community where the taxes are low and his property
values aren’t decreasing because of taxes. He stated in looking at the budget
this fiscal year he would ask three things of council when considering these
taxes. He would like council to consider areas to reduce costs to as much as
$300,000.00. He stated he would request the Finance Director make a detailed
forecast for the next five years. He stated he did not feel a major tax
increase is needed at this time and felt the insurance tax is too much and is
too open ended. He stated Independence should be a city where wealth is
generated, property values increase and where people want to come to work and
live and spend their money. He stated he appreciated Council Member Franzen’s
presentation but respectfully disagrees with the premise there will always be a
shortfall of $610,000.00 because the growth in the city will eventually out
pace the expenses. He stated that by tightening our belts, and by growth in the
city the situation is not dire enough to implement new taxes and felt it would
have a negative impact in the long run than it will in fixing the problem.
Michael Little, 10897 Griststone Circle, stated he has looked at the line item
budget and did not see anything extraordinary or out of line. He stated he has
two small children and wants the best Police Department and is proud to live in
Independence and wants to continue the strong support for the Police
Department. He stated safety is one of the most important things that should be
at the top of the list. He stated in looking at the budget it cannot be
disputed the new buildings are a factor in the deficit that we are facing. He
stated he would rather see cuts in the budget than the insurance premium tax
enacted. He stated it was mentioned if the Board of Education vehicles would be
included in the vehicle sticker fee and according to the Attorney General they
would be included. He stated if that happens then they would probably have to
do something to off set that cost and fears the county taxes will go up as a
result of that. He stated of the three taxes that are proposed he is against
the insurance premium tax the most. He stated the payroll tax might also not be
a good thing. He felt the vehicle sticker tax at this point is probably the
most legitimate way to start some corrective measures to control the deficit.
He stated the vehicle tax alone would not correct the deficit so cuts must be
made elsewhere. He stated some departments might possibly be combined. He
stated the streets are always a big issue and asked if there has ever been a
comprehensive study of street conditions to find out what are the immediate
concerns and what could be put off to a later date. He stated if his math is
correct and $659,681.00 will be generated for the tax revenue, which would
equate to $98,952.15 a year that our citizens would be paying on insurance. He
stated that would be $1,000,000.00 a year the insurance companies would be
collecting to handle the collecting of the insurance tax, which is
astronomical.
Mr. Little stated when Council Member Franzen brought up the fact that the
topcoat of her street was deteriorating he asked that this problem be resolved
immediately. Council Member Franzen stated the street has not been accepted by
the city at this time and should not be until the developer corrects the
problem. Mr. Little stated the repair cycle from concrete to blacktop, is the
key issue. Mayor Moriconi stated the city engineer would be at the November
Caucus Meeting to discuss these issues. Mr. Little stated if the city had
developers that apply topcoats to streets, we could send them a letter
reminding them that upon completion of the subdivision the streets will not be
accepted until an inspection has been completed prior to accepting the street
for city maintenance. Council Member Franzen stated the streets are always
inspected. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated the bond amount is determined upon
the engineer’s estimate of the cost to complete the topcoat.
Mr. Little stated safety, productivity and cost effectiveness are key issues.
He stated we want a strong, well-equipped police force. We need to keep the
Senior Center open and search for new ways to keep it operating and we want a
nice Administration Building. He stated we want new businesses and residential
growth, but you have to be cost effective. The city cannot do things they
cannot afford. He stated the fees the insurance companies will be collecting
could be kept in the city and not given to an insurance company. He stated he
would like Mayor Moriconi and the city council to review the budget again and
do some long-term projections and determine where expenses can be eliminated.
George Sanders, 5268 Pioneer Drive, stated the deficit spending has been going
on for four years, to his knowledge. He stated that at some point, a group of
council members decided they wanted to spend this money. He stated he is very
displeased that Council Member Ellison is not here and does not think enough of
this city to attend a council meeting as important as this one. He stated he
wanted to remind everyone that Council Member Ellison accepted Crowe Road into
the city when he was Mayor and wished Council Member Ellison were here to
answer why. He stated he has walked Crowe Road and walked the bridge and
estimates it will cost at least three-quarters of a million dollars to replace
the bridge and fix the road. He stated that cost is not in any of the figures
quoted tonight nor has this cost been in the past budgets. He stated no matter
what council does, the city is still going to face a deficit. He stated in
regard to the Senior Center Building, the matching grant that Council Member
Yeager obtained was $270,000.00. He stated the point is if the city matches a
grant it still does not come close to $1,000,000.00. He stated our police
station is unreal. He stated the city needs a new police station, no one will
argue with that. He stated $245,000.00 was appropriated to build a council
chamber at the police station and it is not as big as the space the city is
using for meetings at the Court House. He stated the only two council members
that voted against a council chamber were Mr. Bushong and Mrs. Franzen. Mr.
Sanders stated that Mrs. Yeager promised no tax dollars would be used to fund
the Amphitheater. He stated the same promise was used on the Senior Center
Building but $115,000.00 was used for it. He stated he loves the Senior Center,
and is there weekly and does not want to see it shut down. He stated mistakes
were made and the city needs to stop making mistakes and start providing police
protection and public works and all the “fancy stuff” needs to stop. He stated
the city says it has all of these grants but who is going to pay the insurance
and electric at Amphitheater or for police protection and traffic patrol when
there are scheduled events. He stated he does not know where to make cuts in
the budget but the unnecessary spending needs to stop.
Michelle Herman, 345 Webster Road, stated she is here to ask for some
assistance in trying to obtain water service in her area. She stated she is an
auditor and the insurance premium tax is a big issue with auditors. She stated
it is impossible to determine what the actual revenues will be and also
impossible to determine what revenues you are supposed to get. She stated she
would caution against an insurance premium tax because there is no way to
budget it and no way of knowing how much money taxpayers have actually paid.
She stated vehicle taxes and insurance premium taxes couldn’t be deducted off
income taxes and she would prefer to pay a tax that can be deducted off of her
income tax. She stated a vehicle tax could not be deducted off of your income
taxes because it is not based upon the value of the vehicle. Taxes are paid on
cars when they are purchased and we pay taxes on cars every year when they are
licensed. She stated teenagers want to buy cars and this is just another tax
they will have to pay along with their parents. She stated if real estate taxes
or payroll taxes were increased, the city would receive the full 100% with no
deductions from anyone and the city would know then how much they are going to
receive.
Clay Deaton, 5360 Fowler Creek Rd., stated he is here to speak on behalf of his
granddaughter. He stated she is a college student, works at St. Luke Hospital
earning $12.00 an hour and just purchased a home in Independence. Mr. Deaton
asked council if he should tell her to sell her home and move out because she
cannot afford the insurance premium taxes. He stated he was a cement finisher
for forty years and has driven through the subdivisions and has seen poor
quality roads and poor quality inspectors. He stated any concrete that sits in
a truck for more than an hour is no good, and should be refused. He stated
Fowler Creek Road alone would cost at least $100,000.00 to restore it back to
its original condition just because Independence wants a subdivision on Fowler
Creek Road.
Council Member Dupps advised Mr. Deaton that the city did not go out and ask
for a subdivision to be developed on Fowler Creek Road. He stated someone sold
the property to a developer that built the subdivision. He stated the
Sanitation District contracted the water to be installed and Fowler Creek Road
is not a city maintained road.
Mr. Deaton asked who is paying for the connections to the sewer lines on Fowler
Creek Road. Council Member Dupps stated the city is not involved in that
project. He stated all sewer lines have been turned over to the Sanitation
District.
Mr. Deaton stated he pays $400.00 a month for secondary medical insurance plus
$800.00 a month for medicine. He stated if the budget cannot be controlled by
council, there needs to be a change at the next election.
Joyce McGrath, 9026 Supreme Ct., stated she is a 68-year-old retired business
manager and is quite familiar with balancing a budget. She stated there are
times when you can’t balance a budget. She stated the city needs our police
force and street services. She stated by her estimation this tax will be a
$15.00 monthly fee which will not break her but will have to cut back in order
to have these services available. She stated she would like some assurance that
the insurance premium tax will not be increased every year. She stated her
husband would like to retire in two years at age 70. She stated if they could
have some assurance that there would be no increase for five years she would
vote for the insurance premium tax.
JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, stated that in reviewing the budget with
other residents they came up with thirteen budget cuts totaling $192,563.00 in
about fifteen minutes (she presented the full list to council). Below are the
highlights:
1.   Eliminate all staff uniforms totaling $3,500.00 and purchase $1.00
nametags
2.   Because the Senior Center has far less participation than had been
anticipated a Senior Center Director is not needed. Eliminate that position
thereby cutting the budget by $49,211.00.
3.   Currently there is a Senior Citizen Director and a Parks and Recreation
Director and we suggest the person with the most seniority as a city employee
be appointed as the sole Senior and Recreational Director.
4.   We suggest college students be employed in the summer along with
volunteers year round who have artistic talents to assist and provide
recreational activities for the seniors and children of this city.
5.   The city can obtain free community service hours from master gardeners and
the girl and boy scouts that have to have community service to receive their
badges. St. Cecilia has 7th and 8th graders that need hours of community
service for their confirmation.
6.   Trails and Field Maintenance can be eliminated, cutting the budget by
$5,000.00
Mrs. Cobble stated that the city is predicting at the end of this current
budget that ends June 30, 2004 they will have $1,028.050.00. She stated the
Administration Building is for sale for $280,000.00 and feels the city will get
that amount. She stated the tax package that Council Member Yeager has been
promoting which is the payroll tax and vehicle sticker tax would bring in
$379,055.00. She stated that adds up to $1,879,668.00. Mrs. Cobble stated with
the Senior Building being built by grant money she did not think the city could
sell the Senior Center nor does she want the city to sell the building.
Mrs. Cobble stated if the city passes a 5% insurance tax the residents would be
paying collectively 63% more in taxes. She stated the city should add 63% to
the building permits. If the city has no qualms of placing 63% on the citizens,
why should the city have any qualms about placing a 63% increase on the
builders fee which would give the city $80,000.00. She stated instead of
selling the Senior Center, when the new Municipal Center is completed the city
can rent out the lower half of the building for five years since a lot of the
lower level is for storage. She stated the police force could be doubled just
from the money collected for the rental of the lower half of the Municipal
Center.
Mrs. Cobble stated council has gone on for years about the budget. . She stated
that Mayor Moriconi of all people knows two years ago how bad the budget was
going to be because a five year projection was given then. She stated the city
is actually doing better than the five-year projection.
Mrs. Cobble stated the Mayor and council was “hell bent” on building a new
building when we did not have the money. She stated she wished the city would
have taken her offer and accepted the free acre and remodeled the current city
building and added a beautiful addition for our police department for below one
million dollars. She said they totally “slapped” her in the face and said no.
In closing, Mrs. Cobble reminded the Mayor that he was quoted at the election
debate on cable television as saying “I would like to think with the natural
growth of the city the revenues from property values we will be just fine”.
Kathy Eggleston, 6336 Taylor Mill Rd., inquired as to the text amendment for
self-storage facilities and warehouses that she requested at the last meeting.
Attorney Deters advised Ms. Eggleston a Resolution has been drawn up and it
will be voted on at the next Council Meeting in November.
Pauline Judd, 11 Apple Drive, asked Mayor and Council what would happen to the
senior citizens that live alone on a small social security check that cannot
afford to pay the increase in taxes. She asked if the city would take her home
from her.
Annette Cheek, 6466 Marilyn Dr. stated she is a single income resident and has
held a part time job for almost three years. She stated this past summer she
was able to quit her part time job until she heard about the tax increases. She
stated she read an article a few months ago that said employees could expect a
3.5% payroll increase. She stated that her water service is with Taylor Mill
and that is going to increase 27% and her company health insurance is going to
increase. She stated council should look at what can be cut from the budget.
She stated if there were problems in the past, there had to be signs. She asked
if they tried anything besides dipping into the reserve funds as pro-active
instead of re-active when you saw the signs. She stated she realizes that
council does not receive very much money being on council but advised they need
to take a cut or entirely give up the salary including the Mayor. She suggested
that the city scale back on the July 4th fireworks. She asked what guarantee
does she have that Council will not tax health and life insurance if they
mismanage the money again.
Carole Scherder, 4910 Justice Lane, stated because most citizens skim over the
city newsletter and then throw it away, and that all calendar events can be
advertised in the Kentucky Post and Kenton County Recorder at no cost to the
taxpayers , she suggested the city newsletter be eliminated, cutting the budget
by $12,000.00.
Jeff Hemsath/728 Stablewatch Dr. stated he received an explanation from his
insurance company informing him that his rates are increasing from $600.00 to
$700.00 every six months even though he and his wife have a clean driving
record. He stated that the Mayor did say at one of the council meetings “a new
tax is not even being considered”. Mr. Hemsath asked how did this happen. Mayor
Moriconi stated at the May council meeting it was said “are there any new taxes
in this budget” that was just passed. Was the insurance premium tax in that
budget and the answer was no. Mayor Moriconi stated that with the budget that
was passed in June the only additional taxes were the compensating plus 4% on
the property taxes.
Mr. Hemsath stated Mrs. Finnell did not get here in time to sign the sheet to
speak and ask me to make a few important points. He stated that one of the most
important things is we voted you in to be the voice for the citizens. He stated
that he trusts the people that are voted into office are choosing to vote along
the same lines as he, based on conversations he has had with Council. He stated
when you are a Council Member we like to hear that what is being said by the
citizens is also being voiced by Council and Mayor. He stated of all the people
he has spoken to they are opposed to this tax. He stated that it is hard to
believe that the voice of the people is completely being ignored. He stated
Mrs. Finnell was able to obtain more that five hundred signatures from citizens
just on the east side of the city. He stated alternatives should be
investigated before making such a drastic decision.
John Bach, 427 Independence Station Rd., Mr. Bach stated the budget could cut
up to $41,000.00 depending on overtime. He stated congress is passing
legislation to change overtime pay into flex or comp time. He stated he works
in law enforcement and he has to take comp time instead of overtime. He stated
some people do not like this because they lose money, but in this matter it
could be used to pay some of their taxes. He stated that might be an area that
needs to be looked into.
Mr. Bach stated the vehicle sticker tax might not be good because there are a
lot of people living in the city that do not register their cars in Kentucky.
He stated it is the same with car insurance. He stated that the police
department would have to spend valuable time verifying if a person they have
stopped has paid the vehicle insurance tax. Mr. Bach stated there are a lot of
small things that enter into just passing a vehicle sticker tax. He stated he
is sure Chief Butler can verify that his officers are very busy with all the
various things they have to cover in the city.
Don Nienabor/66 McCullum Rd., asked why it is mandatory to place a real estate
tax over 4% on the ballot. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated that is the way the
statute reads. Mr. Nienabor asked if that is how citizens are protected from
getting over taxes. Mr. Deters stated it probably was. Mr. Nienabor stated that
is what is happening with the vehicle tax and that is why he is against it. He
stated an uninsured driver struck his son several years ago, and he had to pay
for it all because he had a $1,000.00 deductible. He stated he asked an
insurance agent how can someone drive without insurance and was told they have
to sell anyone insurance but after three months they can let the policy lapse
because they just need it to get their car tags. He stated he is also against
the insurance tax for the elderly. He stated senior citizens on fixed incomes
should not have to pay this. He stated he is also paying $280.00 yearly for
sewers and not everyone on his street has tied into the city sewers that were
supposed to. He stated he is also paying an additional $11.25 on his sanitation
bill for water run off.
Mr. Nienabor stated there was an item of the storing of two trucks in the old
Fire House on Jimae Avenue at a cost of $13,000.00 plus. He asked why that has
to be rented just to park two trucks when they can be parked on the city lot.
Tony Kramer/10778 Autumnridge Drive, stated he is in favor of the insurance
premium tax. He stated he brings a ten-year resident of the city perspective
and also has been a public administrator in local government for thirteen-
years. He stated the budget shortfalls the city is facing are happening all
over. He stated in scanning the budget the general fund expenditures with the
size of the city, he did not see a lot of fat that could be cut. He stated if
the budget could not be cut, the only recourse is to look for new revenue. He
stated the insurance premium tax appears to be the most equitably sound. He
stated the citizens that own the most expensive homes are the ones that will
pay the most in the insurance tax. He stated if the city does not take pro-
active steps now, the city could be in worse shape down the road. He stated
these shortfalls have been on the horizon and prior councils took no action. He
stated even though it may not be an easy vote he challenged council to look to
the future of the city and what makes it a livable place. He stated he lives
here because he wants to and likes the amenities that the city provides.
Recess
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to recess for ten minutes. Council Member
Yeager so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen. The motion carried
with all ayes.
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to reconvene the meeting. Council Member
Yeager so moved with a second by Council Member Bushong. The motion carried
with all ayes.
Mayor Moriconi thanked everyone for speaking. He stated it showed good
democracy at work. He stated it was good to hear comments and suggestions and
it was appreciated.
New Business
Proposed Text Amendment to add Parking Garages as a Permitted Use in NSC Zone
Mayor Moriconi stated there is a proposed Ordinance to approve a Text Amendment
(Application No. 1640R) for a parking garage and storage facility. He asked if
there were any questions from Council. He stated this would come up at the next
Council Meeting for a vote.
Elimination of Primary Elections
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that he has been made aware that primaries
cannot be eliminated in a third class city. He stated Bill Aylor, County Clerk
read the KRS stating it only applies to fourth thru sixth class cities.
Legal Review of Accrued Paid Leave Policy for City Employees
Council Member Yeager asked if the entire personnel policy would be reviewed.
City Attorney, Jed Deters stated all of the personnel policy would be reviewed.
He stated there have been some legal changes since the last time it was
updated. Council Member Behler asked if Council would vote on the changes.
Mayor Moriconi stated it would have to be voted on at the next Council Meeting.
Council Member Bushong asked if this was for the entire policy and procedures
or just accrued leave. Mr. Deters stated it would be a legal review of the
entire policy.
Council Member Bushong asked who would review the policy and how long will it
take. Mr. Deters stated his office would do the reviewing and it should take a
month, possibly longer. Council Member Bushong stated he agrees the policy
should be reviewed but is concerned with prolonging the discussion much longer
on the accrued leave situation. Attorney Deters stated recommendations have
been made on those issues. Council Member Bushong asked what recommendations
were made. Chief Butler stated he did not have the recommendations with him but
there was a recommendation on a cap for accrued leave. Council Member Behler
stated Mr. Deters recommended changes in how much time can be accrued. Council
Member Bushong asked if Mayor and Council were going to look at dollar figures
regarding accrued time. Chief Butler stated the recommendation on accrued time
did not include dollar amounts. Mr. Deters stated when the policy is reviewed
completely he will look at possible avenues in buying out overtime. Council
Member Yeager stated she had suggested 240 hours as a maximum carry over.
Council Member Bushong stated he was given information on how much accrued time
each employee has and if something happened to the employee with a high amount
of accrued time, the city could be out $48,000.00 or more. City Clerk, Patricia
Taney stated it is more like $134,000.00 as of June 30, 2003. Mr. Deters stated
it is a significant liability. Mayor Moriconi stated at the next Council
Meeting a Resolution could be presented. Council Member Bushong stated he has a
problem with having discussions when he does not have any paperwork to absorb.
Council Member Dupps asked if it would be a legal review or an administrative
review. Mr. Deters stated it would be both.
Old Business
Proposed Ordinance Relating to Sidewalk Waiver Requests
Mayor Moriconi asked if Council had any questions on this proposed ordinance.
Council Member Behler stated she is concerned with placing a lien on a piece of
property if the amount if not known. She stated if we put a lien on this
property and eight years later we need a sidewalk, how the city would know
there has been enough money put on that lien to add a sidewalk. Mr. Deters
stated he did not feel liens need to be updated yearly based on the engineers
projection. Council Member Bushong asked if a lien is placed based on the
situation knowing it will be a good amount for eight years, could we make it
subject to a cost of living adjustment every year. Mr. Deters stated an
interest rate could be added to the lien yearly. He stated engineers are able
to estimate pretty close on the cost of sidewalks. Council Member Franzen asked
if she were correct in saying the city would not be actually collecting any
money, just placing the lien so it can be adjusted.
Mr. Deters stated it could be adjusted. He stated for the publics information,
several people have asked the city for a sidewalk waiver. The subdivision
regulations require if a house is built you must install a sidewalk in front of
the house. He stated there are certain circumstances that would prevent you
from doing that. Sometimes it is topographically impossible to install
sidewalks or there are no other streets or sidewalks around so they are asking
for a waiver to that requirement. The city is concerned primarily due to
changing circumstances as years go by. He stated the city does not just want to
say “no” but if the city files a lien and in the future circumstances change
then the city can enforce the installing of a sidewalk. Mayor Moriconi stated
the lien is not so much for a subdivision but for example Independence Station
Road by Cody Road. He stated due to the increase of homes on these main roads
you might have a sidewalk that goes nowhere. Council Member Franzen asked if
the city engineer could help to determine the percent to be placed on the lien.
Mr. Deters stated he could.
Business Recognition for the Month of November
Mayor Moriconi asked Council Member Bushong what business he chose to recognize
at the November meeting. Council Member Bushong stated he did not know yet but
will let the City Clerk know.
Crowe Road Update
Mayor Moriconi stated the city has applied for state emergency funds to assist
with the repairs needed on Crowe Road.. He stated the estimate on replacing
that bridge is approximately $400,000.00 according to the city engineer. Chief
Butler stated a letter was received October 10th from Robert Hayes, the
district engineer for the state. He basically reaffirmed that the bridge is in
poor condition and in order to be considered for federal funds, we were in
compliance with the posting. He stated it could still be several months before
we hear what we might get or not get from federal funds. He stated these funds
would be for the bridge only.
Mrs. Cobble asked if the city has applied for a grant to help with the cost of
the bridge. Chief Butler stated the city is trying to get federal emergency
funds to replace the bridge but it is a very lengthy process. Mrs. Cobble asked
Mayor Moriconi is he has asked Senator Thayer for his assistance. Mayor
Moriconi stated he has asked Senator Thayer as well as Tom Kerr for their
assistance in obtaining state funds.
Council Member Franzen stated she spoke to Jeff Smith, Public Works and was
advised there is a storm sewer pipe that is rusting out on Production Drive and
he estimates a cost of $167,000.00 to replace the whole thing. She stated Jeff
Smith is filling out requisition forms to the Sanitation District for
assistance in all, if not some of the cost. Chief Butler stated there are some
questions as to replacing the pipe in sections. Council Member Franzen stated
it would cost $22,000.00 just to replace the section that has rusted out. She
stated the rusted pipe is creating sinkholes and the engineer is going to
inspect it.
Council Member Dupps asked if the city has looked at reopening the old section
of Richardson Road that exits on to Old State Route 17. Mayor Moriconi stated
irregardless if the city has to go to Plan B and we do not get any funds for
repairs is to close it and open up Old Richardson but that road is slipping
down the hill. Chief Butler stated in order to open up Old Richardson the state
has been less than enthusiastic about allowing that to be reopened. Chief
Butler stated one of the problems with applying for grants; the state always
takes into consideration the number of homes, which may not have an economic
impact to invest that amount of money. He stated that is a big problem when the
city applies for emergency money or grant money they look at the economic
impact as a whole and they weigh that very heavily on the project.
Council Member Franzen stated when she revisited Crowe Road there is an
abandoned house with trash piled in the driveway and what appeared to be stray
dogs. She asked if we could get Annie Wuestefeld, Zoning Administrator to
inspect it.
Discussion Regarding the MPG Stores
Council Member Yeager stated she drove by the MPG Store at the corner of
Richardson and Beechgrove and saw they are tearing it down. She asked if the
same thing was going to occur at the vacant MPG Store on Madison Pike. City
Clerk, Patricia Taney stated the Highway Department bought that property to
make way for the Turkeyfoot Road improvements. Mr. Deters stated the MPG Store
on Madison Pike is still tied up in bankruptcy and no action can be taken.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to adjourn the meeting. Council Member
Yeager so moved, with a second by Council Member Behler. The motion passed with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 9:35 p.m.
                  ______________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
__________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant Clerk
OCTOBER 20, 2003
CITY OF INDEPENDENCE, KY
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special
Session on Monday, October 20, 2003 at 6:30 p.m. at the Independence Senior
Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor
Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Donna Yeager, Mary Pay Behler, Eric Dupps, Carol
Franzen and Jim Bushong. Council Member Jim Ellison was not present. Also
present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the purpose of the special meeting was to
discuss and have a first reading of a proposed ordinance that would impose a
vehicle sticker fee. City Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Discussion
3.   Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion of this matter. Council
Member Behler asked if the Kenton County School Buses would have to pay a
vehicle tax. City Clerk, Patricia Taney stated that any vehicle that has an
official tag on it, would not pay the fee. Council Member Behler asked if a
resident has a vehicle registered in another community, perhaps a company car,
would they have to pay for an auto sticker. Mrs. Taney stated the vehicle has
to be registered in the state of Kentucky and reside in the city of
Independence. Mayor Moriconi stated that an actual sticker would not be issued.
Council Member Franzen stated the Kenton County Clerk has estimated there are
14,005 vehicles registered in Independence.
4.   Mayor Moriconi stated if there was no more discussion on this matter, a
second reading of the ordinance would be presented at the November 3, 2003
Council Meeting.
5.   Council Member Behler asked how this ordinance would be enforced. Mayor
Moriconi stated the vehicle sticker fee would be placed on the annual
registration notice. Council Member Behler asked if the vehicle owner would
have the option of not paying this tax. Mayor Moriconi stated no, it will be
listed as a line item just like the taxes for the Independence Fire District,
Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission, Kenton County Library, and Health
District.
Adjournment
6.   There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to
adjourn the meeting.
7.   Council Member Yeager so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen to
adjourn. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 6:38 p.m.
                     ________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
___________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Asst City Clerk
November 3, 2003
City of Independence, Ky.
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
November 3, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Revered Charles Steger of Hickory Grove
Baptist Church gave the invocation. An audience member asked everyone to
remember the seventeen soldiers that lost their lives in Iraq this past week.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Jim Ellison, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager.
Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Bushong had selected Swindler and
Currin Funeral Home as recipient of the Business of the Month tribute for
November. Mayor Moriconi presented Stephanie Currin and her sister with the
plaque.
Approval of the Minutes of the October 6, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of October 6,
2003 regular council meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second
from Council Member Mary Pat Behler. No amendments were noted and roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the October 20, 2003 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the October
20, 2003 Special Council Meeting. Council Member Yeager so moved, with a second
from Council Member Dupps. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
with 5 ayes and 1 pass by Council Member Ellison.
Approval of the October 20, 2003 Caucus Meeting Minutes
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the October
20, 2003 caucus meeting of council. Council Member Franzen moved, with a second
by Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
with 5 ayes and 1 pass by Council Member Ellison.
Privileges of the Floor
6.   Rick Jordan, President of LSI Industries, 3871 Turkeyfoot Road addressed
council by stating LSI has paid over $274,000.00 in taxes and of that amount
Independence was paid an excess of $50,000.00. He stated two years ago they
employed over 200 employees in their facility and then the recession hit and
their orders dried up resulting in them eliminating eighty positions which
substantially reduced their work force. He stated they found it was necessary
to cut their costs and renegotiate with their suppliers. He stated they also
had to change some supplies due to their refusal to reduce their costs. He
stated a “Cost Committee” was formed to implement ideas on how to examine cost
saving measures to reduce their operating expenses. He stated LSI is returning
and just recently became the largest supplier for interior parking lot lighting
for the world’s largest retailer. He stated they are now beginning to increase
their workforce. Mr. Jordan advised LSI Industries is against any proposed
raise in taxes, both the payroll and insurance tax. He stated the insurance tax
is not just a 5%, but the insurance companies add administration fees for
processing this tax. He stated it is important not to raise payroll taxes as
this would hinder their ability to get qualified workers. He stated since they
have been through a recession, the city should cut their expenses and live
within the current budget. He stated LSI does not agree with the idea to
increase taxes in order to maintain a surplus.
7.   Charlene Case-522 Rice Road addressed council regarding storm water
drainage onto her property. She advises she has lived on Rice Road forty-years
and in that time fourteen new homes have been built on the street. She feels
this has contributed to the drainage problem. Ms. Case referred to a letter she
received from the City Engineer wherein he has determined the water drainage is
a result of the change in her driveway. She argued there have been no changes
in her driveway. She stated the city engineer came over to inspect it and
stated it was not a condition that required city maintenance, but was personal
property maintenance. She advised that Jeff Smith of the city Public Works
Department has also inspected the area. She stated they are in the city limits
and they pay city and county taxes and so far they have received no services,
just higher taxes. She stated if Rice Road is in the city limits then it should
be treated for maintenance. She stated she should not have to put a swale or a
ditch from the top of the road down to the bottom. She stated the water is
running from the top of the road due to heavy trucks traveling on it and it has
shifted the road and now the water travels down her driveway instead of in the
ditch. She stated if she has to change the flow of the water she will have to
cross private property. She stated the city advised her they cannot cross
private property but why do they think she can do it. She stated her neighbors
will not want a ditch four to six inches deep on their property when they don’t
need it.
8.   Mayor Moriconi explained to council that Mrs. Case lives on Rice Road and
water is running down Rice Road across her gravel driveway and washes out the
gravel. Mayor Moriconi stated the city engineer inspected the site and advised
it was not a city problem. He stated council can decide what to do but the
Public Works Department will have to go on private property to solve the
problem by building a swale.
9.   Mrs. Case asked if the city has a certain amount of right-of-way on every
road in the city. Mayor Moriconi stated they are finding there are different
right-of-ways for different roads. Mrs. Case stated she knows Rice Road has
been in the city for at least forty years and all she is ever told is there is
not enough money in the budget. She stated there is money in the budget to
match a grant to build an amphitheater, add on to the parking lots. She stated
they are putting water in Visalia and there is sewage all around us but because
we are not an open road, we are forgotten about except at tax time.
10.   Council Member Bushong asked how expensive would it be to make these
corrections. He stated that he spoke to Mrs. Case today and asked her to come
to the meeting tonight since some of the council members were not aware of this
problem. He stated some of the new development might have contributed to the
change in the slope of the road. He stated it might not be the responsibility
of the city but maybe a contractor making the flow of the water change. He
stated that the city should get an estimate on the repair cost.
11.   Mrs. Case stated there have been five homes built at the bottom of the
road and there are nine homes above her residence. Council Member Bushong asked
if the nine homes are above her residence. Mrs. Case stated her home is the
sixth one on the right up the hill and asked the elected council members that
are not familiar with all the streets in Independence to go around and visit
the out of the way roads. She stated at the top of Rice Road it becomes level
and that is where the water is coming from. She stated it runs off the next-
door neighbor’s property into her driveway. Council Member Yeager asked how
many private properties the city would have to check with go get permission to
cross their property.
12.   Mrs. Case stated that would depend on where the engineer says the problem
is going to have to be fixed. She stated there is no ditch; it is all coming
from the road. She asked them to understand if a ditch is dug; it will have to
cross those driveways, which will create another problem. She stated Jeff Smith
advised her ditch would only go to her driveway, which would empty the water
out on to another part of her property. She stated if the ditch goes all the
way down, the neighbors would be upset. She stated if the city has the right of
way, then the city can get around that.
13.   Council Member Behler asked if Jeff Smith could get an estimate on the
cost to fix this problem. She stated she has already asked the city engineer to
attend the caucus meeting regarding some other matters and can also address
this problem.
14.   Attorney, Jed Deters stated this is a classic storm water problem. He
stated there are jurisdictional issues, right-of-way issues and private
property issues that will hopefully be solved when the Sanitation District
takes over storm water issues in four years. He stated it does not seem to be a
city problem at this time. Mayor Moriconi stated in defense of Mrs. Case thru
the years as asphalt has been put down many times it has raised the elevation
of the road. Mrs. Case stated she would appreciate anything the city can do.
15.   George Sanders, 5268 Pioneer Drive - Mr. Sanders addressed council
stating even though he is against taxes he does not see any alternative but to
pass a new tax and also do budget cutting. He stated this debate has turned
neighbor against neighbor, neighborhood against neighborhood and council
members against council members. He stated there is nothing council can do to
satisfy everyone. He stated council must do what they have to do for the
goodness of the city. He stated that this particular council did not create
this mess. He stated there are two members of council, Mrs. Behler and Mrs.
Franzen that have been threatened and they need to be defended. He stated they
did not create this mess. He stated they might have pushed for a resolution for
the tax issues and he thanked them. He stated he and other citizens that did
not attend council meetings caused budget woes. He stated had he and others
been attending the meetings, these expenditures could have been stopped years
ago. He thanked council for all they have done. He suggested the four council
members that were involved in the expenditures in the past, should vote for a
tax increase tonight.
16.   Michael Little, 10897 Griststone Circle stated he would like to address
the newspaper article published in the Kentucky Post on October 23, 2003. He
stated there were specific points that he would like to respond to. The first
being a statement made by a council member that it is time to clear the air on
some of the misinformation that has circulated in the last few months. He
stated in his opinion this is biggest misinformation that has been circulated
in this area over the past few months. He stated it is his opinion that this is
the most misinformation that has been circulated in our area these past few
months. He stated the article states the Mayor and Council have been accused of
overspending and losing control of the budget. He stated it is a fact that we
have over spent. This city has spent more than it has brought in. He stated it
is not an accusation but it is the facts. He stated he has trouble
understanding someone’s definition of the truth when we are not dealing with
the facts. He stated another reference was made about why we are spending so
much money on the fire station and amphitheater. He stated he has resided in
the city for three years and feels he has gotten involved. He stated he has not
heard a lot of complaints regarding the fire station or amphitheater. He stated
the main things were the Senior Center and Administrative Building. He stated
the article stated the current city hall that was a former bank would be twice
as expensive to remodel. He stated if the current building that is being built
now cost $3.8 million then we should asked council if they are saying it would
cost $7.6 million dollars to rebuild the current city building. He stated
another statement was it is a fact the city will spend more services on new
areas than we will take in. The police department is operated by a very
efficient leader who should have four to five more police officers according to
the suggested figures in a national survey. He stated he does agree with
council that he does want a strong police force. He stated he adamantly
supports our police force but as far as new subdivisions, we feel like the city
does not want new people moving into the city. He stated if there are no new
subdivisions then how do you expect to bring in new businesses, restaurants,
stores and shops without the population to support the businesses. He stated
another reference was made regarding the salary pay for a council member. He
stated he did not know if it was appropriate to make a statement like that in
the newspaper. He stated reference was made that he fought the rise in taxes
for three years. Mr. Little stated he does know this individual did not oppose
a tax hike in March, April, May, October, and doesn’t oppose it now. He stated
the article said we have a budget of $3 million dollars but we are dipping into
the reserves each year. He stated a budget means you have a plan but has not
seen it since he become a resident. Mr. Little stated he felt it was very
inappropriate for him to say the recent vandalism on our vehicles will cost
money and is not a solution. Mr. Little stated he resents that statement
personally and is embarrassed for him and himself as a citizen that sort of
propaganda would be printed in the newspaper. He stated he takes great
resentment to imply that the people who are against the taxes are vandals. He
stated in his opinion, Mr. Bushong submitted this article and obviously lacks
the courage, wisdom and vision to hold a position on council based on the
comments in the newspaper that you are indifferent whether you hold a position
or not. He stated if Mr. Bushong feels that way he requests that Mr. Bushong
resign his position tonight prior to voting on the taxes if your statement in
the newspaper is the true way that you feel.
17.   Don Nienabor, 66 McCullum Rd, stated he is here to express his opinion
that might not amount to much because council has already made up their minds.
He stated Mr. Bushong already stated in his letter to the newspaper the way he
is going to vote. Mrs. Franzen at the last council meeting said when it was
tabled “let’s do what we came here for”. He stated they already have their mind
made up. He stated he is here because he is totally against an insurance
premium tax. He stated the insurance premium tax is a tax that is put on you
because they cannot raise your property taxes. He stated the insurance premium
tax also could not be filed on your income taxes. He stated there are elderly
people that are on fixed incomes that will be deprived of medicine and food. He
stated he is totally dissatisfied with the letter that was mailed out to
businesses asking them their opinion. He stated he did not receive a letter in
March when this issue was first approached asking his opinion; he had to read
it in the newspaper. He asked how the city could pay for postage to send to
businesses and ask them for their opinion. He stated they used his tax money to
send a letter to businesses and asked them how they felt about an insurance
premium tax, vehicle sticker tax and payroll taxes.
18.   Kermit Ballmer, 689 Independence Station Rd, stated he was here to
represent the senior citizens of the city. He stated they are all against the
vehicle sticker tax, payroll tax and the insurance premium tax. He stated
water, sanitation and health insurance has all increased and cannot afford
$24.00 a year for himself and his wife to renew their membership at the Senior
Citizens Center. He stated senior citizens will go forward in the future on
fixed incomes but will have to choose between food, drugs, utilities, insurance
or taxes. He stated if these taxes are passed senior citizens will gamble with
their homes because they cannot afford the insurance tax and they are going to
have to drop their homeowners insurance and the same with the vehicle sticker
tax. He stated that council must be creative, flexible and courageous. He
stated the budget must be cut, eliminate the parks department, public works
department and the senior citizens director. He asked the mayor to delegate the
responsibilities of the parks, public works to the council members and
eliminate these costs of salaries and benefits that we are paying these people.
19.   Glenna Faulkner, 22 Carrie Way, stated she is a senior citizen and cannot
afford additional taxes. She stated she wonders how many people go to work
daily, how much of their paycheck are they bringing home after they have taken
all the taxes. She stated she lives on Carrie Way and her street is considered
the slums of Independence but it used to be the greatest spot in town. She
stated all the city has now is bills. She stated her prescriptions are very
expensive along with many other senior citizens. She stated we need the police
department but do the police need to be driving their cruisers home when they
should be driving their own vehicles when not on duty to cut expenses. She
stated she also saw a police officer at Kroger’s buying groceries. She stated
her hope is whoever votes for this tax will not be elected next term.
20.   Tom Brinker, 1192 Constitution Dr., stated he considers himself to be an
informed citizen as he regularly attends the council meetings. He stated that
he does not believe taxes are a great thing but he would like the city to keep
the current status that it is now. Mr. Brinker stated since the last meeting he
has paid attention as to how often he has seen a police cruiser patrol his
street, other than Halloween, none. He stated this is a large city and we do
not have enough police officers. He stated he is not for raising taxes but if
anyone has another plan, let’s hear it. He stated the budget does need to be
cut. He stated don’t take our money and just continuously spend it. He stated
he would like to see a moratorium on major street repairs for another year. He
stated let’s get thru another year and then look at ways to fill the void.
21.   Mike Wayman, 9 Apple Dr., stated agrees with a lot of everything that has
been said. He stated the insurance premium tax be increased $357.00 a year,
which will be double what he pays on his property taxes. He stated he agrees
that the city needs income but there has to be a better way to do it. He stated
why can’t this be put on the ballot and make it a real estate tax to give the
senior citizens a break and let the citizens vote on it. He stated a lot of
residents that put you on council did not vote to have their taxes increased.
22.   John Hamilton, 62 Roselawn Rd stated he has been an insurance agent in
the city for twenty-five years. He stated he is here because of a matter of
principal. He stated insurance is a product that he sells that you wants to
tax. He stated he is against the tax. He stated it is perfectly legal in doing
what you are doing but you are morally and ethically wrong. He stated he will
get no commission from these taxes but will get the calls when citizens receive
their bills, which he will then refer back to the city. He stated there has
been statements made that everybody else does it, so why don’t we do it. He
stated there are a lot of cities that charge an insurance premium tax but they
are very successful cities. He stated forty-four states do not allow this tax
to be used. He stated he is a senior citizen and can afford to pay the tax but
it is a matter of principal. He stated he is also concerned with the young
people that will have to pay up to $150.00 a year on top of their insurance
policy. He stated he did receive a letter addressed to his business and
appreciated it but did take some issue with speaking about the Northern
Kentucky Chamber of Commerce that business people would prefer to have the
insurance premium tax. He stated there might be a few businesses that would
want an insurance premium tax but has yet to meet anyone that wants this tax.
He stated he would like to of had the survey from the chamber showing all the
businesses that are agreeable to the insurance premium tax.
23.   Council Member Behler stated there was not a survey but the Chamber
stated they believe in a broad tax base for each community. Mr. Hamilton asked
“they, being who please, the chamber people on staff or actual members that are
business owners. Council Member Behler stated this was a staff person at the
chamber and that is why it was important for me to get feedback from
businesses. He asked if she was actually quoting a chamber person rather than
the businesses you said in your letter. He stated I don’t have an issue with
you but that it what you put in your letter and I expect you to be able to back
up what someone tells you. He stated the average insurance premium tax will
affect these residents about 35% which is a pretty hefty increase over property
taxes.
24.   Ray Kerl, 3933 Thomas Dr., stated he has lived here for almost twenty
years. He stated there are a few people sitting on council that voted four
years ago to borrow $5 million dollars to build the new police station. He
asked how they planned on paying for it back then. He stated as far as the
police department goes, you say we need more police officers and cruisers. He
stated the police ought to do what they are paid to do now. He stated he goes
past the fire house on Richardson Road at least ten times a day and usually
there is a police cruiser sitting there with no one in it. He stated the
intersection at Turkeyfoot Road and Richardson Road could use a police officer
to direct traffic at least twice a day, in the morning and evening. He stated
the city once had a volunteer park board but city council decided to do away
with it. He stated he is a senior citizen and will pay any of the taxes passed
but he cannot afford it. He stated he would have to borrow money to pay his
city taxes. He stated he is not sure what the salary of the Senior Director is
but she is not doing her job. He stated the Senior Center is supposed to be
open until 9:00 p.m. but when he was there at 7:00 p.m. the doors were locked.
25.   David Millward, 25 Oby Drive, read a prepared statement wherein he
thanked Mayor and Council for allowing the citizens to address the subject of
new taxes in a public forum. He stated that approximately fifty people have
voiced their opposition against taxes but does not feel the large majority of
registered voters have spoken. He stated he is a member of the Senior Citizens
Center and am retired and on a fixed income. He stated he can see his buying
power decrease yearly and can appreciate and respect the seniors in our
community that are in extremely grave financial situations. He stated this is
not a result of, or the responsibility our city government. He stated there is
concern about our citizens and their well-being, but the roll of our city
government is to maintain and provide the services and facilities we all
require. He stated if the vehicle sticker tax is passed, it would tax everyone
the same amount per year no matter what the value is of their automobile is or
the price of their home. He stated it will add some income to the city budget
but will not be enough by itself. He stated the vehicle sticker tax would tax
the low-income citizens the same amount as those with higher incomes. He stated
the payroll tax would not benefit our businesses, but put a strain on employees
working in our city. He stated neither of these tax solutions can cover the
city’s current and future needs. He stated more than one person has stated they
can see no waste in the current budget. Mr. Millward stated the insurance
premium tax is the only solution that can increase the city’s income for
current and future needs. He stated that he has calculated his additional taxes
to be $110.00 a year and is willing to do that. He asked everyone to be fair
and think of our neighbors.
26.   Shawn Steimetz, 3970 Hunters Green Drive, stated he would like a street
light installed in front of his home and more police presence in the
subdivision so stop people from running stop signs. He stated he has videotaped
two school buses running the stop signs, which he will take up with the school
board on Wednesday. Chief Shawn Butler advised Mr. Steimetz he will speak with
him regarding this complaint.
27.   William Edwards, 3970 Hunters Green Drive stated if council believes in
democracy they will place it on the ballot and let the voters speak thru
voting. He stated his vehicle was almost hit by a young man running a stop
sign. He stated it is not a rare occasion, but a daily occasion. He stated the
no one takes the time to stop at Pathfinder. He stated two years ago he called
the police regarding suspicious kids and the police never showed up. He stated
he sat there three to four hours for the police to arrive and when they did,
they ran the stop sign. He stated he has seen vehicles go around school buses
that are stopped with their lights on. He stated that Hunters Green Subdivision
is a part of the city and feels something should be done.
28.   JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike asked Mayor and Council three questions.
She stated a resident, Michelle Herman who spoke at the caucus meeting
regarding help from the city regarding water problems she would like you to
address. She also stated she was against the insurance premium tax. She stated
she has done an audit of the insurance tax before and found it has a litany of
problems including corruption. Mrs. Cobble asked Mayor and Council if any of
them had called Mrs. Herman to ask about this audit and the corruption. Mrs.
Cobble asked council and mayor and all stated no but Council Member Behler
stated she did speak to the City’s Finance Director and was advised that it is
an audit nightmare. Mrs. Cobble asked Council Member Behler if she asked about
the corruption. Council Member Behler stated Mrs. Hudson stated it could
happen. Mrs. Cobble stated her second question was why the Mayor ordered Chief
Butler to have eight police officers and a metal detector at the Caucus Meeting
two weeks ago. Mayor Moriconi stated there was no metal detector but police
security was requested by a couple of council members. Mayor Moriconi stated it
is his job to provide security for council and anyone that attends a meeting.
Mrs. Cobble stated after speaking to different residents, she was told they
felt intimidated and afraid to speak. Mrs. Cobble stated her last question was
to Council Member Behler. She asked Council Member Behler why she only
contacted certain businesses in the city and not all of the businesses. Council
Member Behler stated she just did not have time. She stated she mailed out
sixty letters from the list she obtained from Northern Kentucky Chamber and a
few from a list she received from the City Clerk. She stated she tried to be
random in picking large businesses and small businesses.
29.   Mrs. Cobble stated she would like now to give her three-minute speech.
She stated everything about the insurance premium tax is a scam. She stated the
insurance companies do not pay any of this tax. She stated instead they collect
the entire amount immediately plus 15% of the tax as their collection fee,
which they keep, earning interest in their banks for up to four months before
sending the money to the city. She stated since it is not an ad valorum tax the
insurance tax is also able to skirt certain legislative safeguards such as
cities not being able to raise its taxes more than the comp plus four percent
without being subject to voter recall. She stated the insurance tax is an
“evil” tax. It inflicts a harsh burden on all citizens, especially seniors that
cannot afford it, single moms that are having a hard time making ends meet, and
families with teenage male children. She stated the insurance tax is the
“sodomy” of taxes. Mrs. Cobble stated she spoke with the Mayor the morning
after the last council meeting and he asked me if I did not want a city
building that I can be proud of. She stated her response was that she is proud
of the current city building. She stated she will never be proud of the five
million dollar, thirty-five thousand foot monstrosity that we are building. She
stated every time she passes it, she will fight back tears because of the pain
and suffering this grandiose building has inflicted upon the citizens of the
city. She stated she will always be ashamed of the new building because you
have abandoned the heart of downtown Independence. She stated the city has left
the old and historic section to further decay and by so doing you have
desecrated one of the most beautiful and historical houses in all of Kentucky.
She stated if you had remodeled and expanded the current city building you
could have kept the heart of the city vibrant and alive, but now you will be up
at the new campus which is adjacent to a strip mall complete with the golden
arches of McDonalds. She stated the city building could have been nestled
between two old Victorian homes listed on the historic register where they view
the majestic golden dome of a 150 year old Courthouse. She stated because of
the increased tax burden on the citizens I will also be ashamed of the
extravagant new city building because I know that one of its bricks represents
medicine like Mrs. Faulkner and Mr. Ballmer may no longer be able to afford.
She stated she will be ashamed of the new city building because she knows one
of its bricks represent one more basic necessity that citizens like Mrs. Judd
and Mr. Wayman will have to do without. She stated she will be ashamed of the
new city building because one of its bricks represents the sweat blood of
citizens like Mrs. Doris King delivering flowers at six thirty in the morning
or the business owner, Carol Bach standing on her feet all day or Freddie White
tending to his farm. She stated she will be ashamed of this new city building
because one of its bricks represents college accounts that will be under
funded. Homes that will not have needed repairs made and business that will be
hurt because its citizens will have less money to spend. She stated Council
Member Franzen wanted to talk raw numbers at last month’s meeting. She stated
the insurance tax will increase our tax burden by over $155.00. She states that
equates to almost ten chicken dinners we will not be eating at the Court House
Restaurant. That equates to thirty-one videos we will not be renting from the
Independence Movie Gallery. That equates to over fifteen pizzas that we will
not be ordering from Pasquale’s Pizza. She stated if you multiply that number
by over four thousand families, which the city has, it could be economically
devastating to our local business community. She stated if this insurance tax
is enacted tonight, you have won this battle but you have not won the war. She
stated we have only begun to fight. She stated the decisive and final battle
will be fought in next years election. She stated to the Mayor the people of
the city are well aware of the fact that you have the power to veto this
insurance tax if enacted tonight. She stated if you are not for us, you are
against us. She stated if the Mayor refuses to veto the insurance tax we then
know you are against us and therefore you are forever be known as the “hated
insurance tax mayor” of Independence.
30.   Darrel Herald, 10868 Griststone Circle stated at the last meeting he had
mentioned that he has spent some time going over the financial reports and
current budget. He stated and the end of fiscal year June 2002 the revenues
collected from taxes was $2.532 million dollars. He stated the proposed budget
that ends June 2004 the total tax revenue will be $3.132 million dollars which
is an increase of nearly 24%. He stated at the same time the taxes on the
property owners rose from $1.082 million dollars to $1.340 million dollars
which still wasn’t enough. He stated the fact is for whatever reason there were
decisions made to spend more money that was collected in taxes. He stated the
three proposed taxes to be voted on tonight will increase taxes on property
owners more than 50%. The implication of these taxes will be a loss of jobs,
businesses less incentive to move to Independence, and businesses will move out
if they have the opportunity and people will be considering this when deciding
if they want to work or live in Independence. He stated property values will
decrease. He stated he did not believe a tax increase at this time if not a
necessity. He stated there is still time of make adjustments. He suggested we
reduce the General and Public Works budget by at least $50,000.00. He suggested
we reduce plan spending on streets to double what it was last year, which was
$250,000.00. He suggested the Senior Citizens and Recreation Department be
combined in to one budget. He stated those three changes will generate an
additional $4, to $500,000.00 in fiscal year ending 2004. He stated if these
taxes are passed tonight, the legacy that you will leave the city will be the
council and mayor that passed the largest single tax increases in the history
of the city of Independence. Mr. Herald asked council to vote no on the
increased taxes and the Mayor to veto them should they be passed. He suggested
and requested if you believe in your argument as you say you do, then you
request an ad valorum tax increase which is tax deductible. He stated he was
embarrassed for mayor and council and for the city of Independence by the
letter that Council Member Bushong wrote to the Kentucky Post on October 3,
2003. He stated he took offense to the fact that Council Member Bushong would
suggest because he disagrees with fiscal irresponsibility that he has got to be
a vandal.
31.   Maura Snyder, 5129 Dana Harvey Drive, stated she would like the city to
make sure that the budget council is passing or has approved is everything we
really need. She stated she does see the police department regularly go up and
down neighborhoods. She stated the city building as far as she is concerned
will be something to be proud of. She stated this is a building the city owns
and she is proud to be a citizen of Independence. She stated all the bickering
and squabbling is dividing a city that could be a great place to live.
32.   Bob Osborne, 10722 Shadywood Drive, stated he has only lived in the city
for six months. He stated he purchased his home in Forest Run Subdivision and
did a lot of checking because he is retired and living on a fixed income and
may be better off than others; you still look at every dollar. He stated in
checking our neighborhoods in Northern Kentucky to find a replacement home for
his large home in Ft. Thomas where he paid insurance tax he looked at all the
taxes other than just real estate tax. He stated he looked in Independence
because there was not insurance tax. He stated he did not feel the insurance
tax was the way to go about this. He stated this can put a great hardship on
people that really do not need anymore hardships. He stated he has a hard time
figuring out how a city can get into this problem with being one of the fastest
growing cities in Northern Kentucky.
33.   Kenneth Cooper, 5170 Oliver Road, stated his insurance agent does not
have time to sell insurance and keep records on the insurance tax. He stated he
has to pay his agent the money but he has to keep the records and remit the
money to the city. He stated there is a new subdivision on Oliver Road and one
on Bristow Road with eight hundred homes that should bring in revenue of
$1,600,000.00. He stated our city needs to be concerned about the elimination
of trees. He stated trees produce oxygen and if we continue to destroy the
earth of oxygen our descendants will not survive.
34.   David Rabe, 529 Independence Station Road, stated he picked up a more
detailed budget. He asked if the budget could be re-opened to eliminate some
things. He stated the Senior Center Director and the Park Director should be
one job position. Mayor Moriconi stated the budget can be amended at any time.
He stated instead of passing one of these taxes he feels there are a lot of
things in the budget that can be cut or eliminated. Mr. Rabe stated he would
like to volunteer his time to sit in on the budget amendments.
35.   Mike Vogt, informed council that he is the Vice-President of Human
Resources at Mazak Corporation. He stated Mazak has been located in the city of
Independence for over twenty-five years. He stated in the last three years
their business has been hammered. He stated just a few years ago they produced
approximately one hundred fifty machines on a monthly basis, now they are
producing fifty-five to sixty machines monthly. He stated that has obviously
required some tremendous cost cutting on their part to make the business
continue to be viable. He has stated it has required a lot of sacrifice on
employees. He stated there have been no raises in a couple of years. He stated
they also had to pass some of their increases on insurance along to their
employees to make the business survive. He stated a payroll tax will obviously
make it more difficult to compete in the market they compete in. He stated the
building they house in Independence is approximately twenty-eight years old and
needs major renovations. He stated they also have the option of looking at
other facilities in Elsmere and are evaluating that. He stated any cost
increase will be a factor in that evaluation. He stated they are able to
recruit and retain quality employees and one of the things employees look at
are payroll taxes. He stated he was made aware of letters being sent out to
businesses to ask their opinion but they did not receive a letter from anyone.
He stated he is there to express Mazak’s displeasure with payroll taxes and
insurance premium taxes.
Recess
36.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion for a five minute recess at 8:30 p.m.
Council Member Franzen moved with a second by Council Member Dupps.
37.   Council Member Franzen made a motion to reconvene the meeting with a
second by Council Member Dupps.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No. 2003-0-19 Amending Title IX, Chapter 95 of the Code of Ordinances
– 2nd Reading
38.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading of Ordinance No.
2003-0-19 that would amend Title IX, Chapter 95 of the Independence Code of
Ordinances relating to damage done to sidewalks, curbs and streets, providing
penalties. Mr. Deters read Ordinance 2003-0-19.
39.   Council Member Yeager moved with second by Council Member Franzen to
approve Ordinance No. 2003-0-19. Roll call was answered unanimously and the
motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2003-0-20-Amending Ordinance 1997-0-27 Relating to Occupational
(Payroll) Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
40.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading on amending the
rate to Ordinance No. 1997-0-27 regarding payroll taxes. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance 1997-0-27. Due to lack of action the ordinance died on the floor.
Ordinance No. 2003-0-21 Imposing an Sticker Tax
41.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading on Ordinance
2003-0-21 passing an automobile sticker tax. Mr. Deters read Ordinance 2003-0-
21. Council Member Dupps moved to approve the ordinance.
42.   Council Member Franzen stated she would not make any motions on taxes.
She stated this is Council Member Yeager’s tax and stated she has not spent any
of this money and her voting record will show that. She stated she will not
make any motions for taxes but she might be forced to vote on one because the
city is in trouble. She asked Council Member Yeager why she was not concerned
with the Senior Citizens when the money was spent. Council Member Yeager stated
she was not on council when the loan was approved for the Municipal Center.
Council Member Bushong made a second motion on the Ordinance. Council Member
Franzen stated the two people that have been sitting on council the longest;
Mr. Ellison especially has been sitting here in silence and offered no
explanation. She stated now that the taxes are coming up, there is no action
from Council Member Ellison or Council Member Yeager. Council Member Yeager
stated she advised the Mayor and City Clerk the insurance premium tax should be
voted on first because she did not want to take a chance on more than one tax
passing. She stated if the insurance premium tax is not listed first, she would
not vote for any of them.
43.   Council Member Ellison stated when council passed the approval for the
Municipal Center the economy was doing well and was not expecting a down turn.
He stated now that the down turn is here, we have to tighten up a little and
live with it; better times are coming. He stated we have to crawl before we can
walk. Council Member Franzen stated Council Member Ellison should have thought
about that before. She asked why the city wasn’t crawling when the money was
spent on the council chambers, municipal center and the senior center. Council
Member Ellison stated if you look at the bids, the bid with the council chamber
was the cheapest of the selection. Council Member Franzen stated it did not
have to be built at all. Council Member Ellison stated if you look at the bids,
the building was cheaper with the council chamber. Council Member Franzen
stated the council chamber was an additional $245,000.00 and unless her third
grade math is incorrect, that is more than it had to be. Council Member Ellison
stated he questioned that himself when it was presented on the floor. Council
Member Franzen stated if the council chamber had not been voted on, the city
would have saved $245,000.00. Council Member Ellison stated the city was
bidding on the total overall cost of the project, not just phases at a time.
44.   Mayor Moriconi called for a roll call vote. The motion was approved with
a roll call vote of 4 ayes and 2 nays answered by Council Member Behler and
Council Member Ellison.
Ordinance No. 2003-0-22-Imposing a License Fee Tax Upon Insurance Companies
45.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a second reading of the insurance
license tax. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2003-0-22. Due to lack of action the
ordinance died on the floor.
Ordinance Providing Sidewalk Waivers
46.   Mayor Moriconi stated this ordinance would be a first reading but asked
council to wait until more information could be obtained from the city engineer
who will be attending the next scheduled caucus meeting. Mayor Moriconi asked
City Clerk, Patricia Taney to bring council up to date on the sidewalk waiver.
City Clerk, Patricia Taney stated the City Attorney, City Engineer and Building
Inspector would meet to edit some of the text of this proposed ordinance, then
submit a revised draft to council at the next meeting..
Proposed Ordinance approving a Text Amendment adding Parking Garages as
Permitted Uses in the NSC Zones
47.   Mayor Moriconi stated this is a first reading approving a text amendment
adding parking garages as a permitted use in the NSC zones. Mr. Deters read the
proposed Ordinance.
48.   Council Member Dupps asked if he could be apprised on this issue. Mayor
Moriconi stated this request is located in a vacant field off Cox Road behind
the old Cherokee IGA. Mayor Moriconi stated Northern Kentucky Area Planning
approved one part of the amendment but not the second part. Attorney, Jed
Deters stated Area Planning did not want self-storage facilities or ware houses
as a part of that zone but parking garages they thought would be an appropriate
conditional use in that zone.
49.   Mayor Moriconi asked if anyone was there to represent Mr. Neltner. Mr.
Tom Lutz stated Mr. Neltner is the owner of the property and wants to develop
and use in a way that could be used by the Cherokee Building and also use as a
storage facility. He stated they were concerned by the fact that what is built
on the property is going to affect the residents in that area. He stated Mr.
Neltner does not want to do anything that would upset the residents. He stated
that property is zoned at this time to build a pool hall, liquor store or even
a parking lot to park semi’s, which would affect the residents in that area. He
stated they want to develop a project that everyone will be happy with. He
stated Mr. Neltner wants to get a text amendment changed or added for a self-
storage, private, secured facility. He stated they could use it for snow
removal equipment and maintenance material they use for the Neltner Building,
Katie’s Daycare, and Great Clips Salon. Council Member Bushong asked Mr. Lutz
what a partial approval does to the overall plans. Mr. Lutz stated Northern
Kentucky Area Planning did approve the garage that they can use to store
equipment in. He stated after that it would have to be developed in a fashion
that is stated in the zoning ordinances.
50.   Attorney, Jed Deters stated for procedural information this is a text
amendment and not a map amendment. He stated the restrictions that would apply
regarding public hearings do not apply. He stated this is only a recommendation
from Northern Kentucky Area Planning and Zoning. Council Member Ellison stated
he thinks the confusion is on the wording “parking garages”. He stated he did
not think the context Mr. Neltner is using is the same “parking garages” the
planning commission is thinking about. He stated that Northern Kentucky Area
Planning is thinking of a two-tiered parking garage that could only be used by
cars. City Attorney Deters suggested since this is just a first reading, that
Mr. Lutz and Mr. Neltner put together a presentation and explain to council at
the caucus or council meeting.
Glenhurst Park Development
51.   Mayor Moriconi stated there is an item of discussion for this. Council
Member Yeager stated the city was given four acres of land and to receive
nineteen more in the future. She also stated the city also received $25,000.00.
She stated the choice was to receive a check for that amount or would work with
the city and so some of the work themselves at a cheaper rate than the city
could contract out. She stated Chief Butler, Nita Brake and herself went over
the list of things the city could do and decided to work on the infrastructure
first. She stated when they visited the Glenhurst Development they noticed the
pond had a green film on it. She stated they were told he could get some grass
carp for the pond but he would have to deduct that from the $25,000.00. She
stated Nita Brake is going to contact Department of Fish and Wildlife regarding
the fish. She stated this has to be approved by council before Glenhurst will
start on anything.
52.   Mayor Moriconi stated Glenhurst Development, which is developing homes
located off Hogreffe Road gave the city land for a park area and also said they
would pay the first $25,000.00 to improve the park. Mayor Moriconi stated the
list is missing. Council Member Yeager stated Glenhurst has already installed
the sidewalk, which totaled $8,000.00.
53.   Chief Shawn Butler stated the city accepted this park approximately a
year ago. He stated the developer came in and told the city they were donating
$25,000.00 to whatever to want. He stated the main thing was the trails, which
have been put in and it totaled about $8,500.00. He stated with the remaining
balance, the developer wants to know what the city would like for them to do to
use the remainder of that money. He stated nothing has been acted upon to this
point. He stated in discussions with Glenhurst there was talk of infrastructure
for the future of the park. He stated if the electric is ran for the water
meter and lines that totals approximately $1,750.00 and $1,000.00 to install
the electric services panel. He stated to install lights for security that
would cost $2,850.00. He stated that would leave a balance of $10,150.00 to be
used toward playground equipment and safety services. He stated council needs
to give himself or the mayor direction on what you would like to see go into
the park.  
54.   Council Member Bushong asked what the expense would be to build a unisex
restroom in the park. Chief Butler stated it was cost approximately $30,000.00.
Mayor Moriconi stated the city shied away from projects like that because it
would mainly be a neighborhood park to be used by the neighborhood. Council
Member Bushong asked if it would help to have input from the residents in that
area.
55.   Mayor Moriconi asked if they were any time restrictions on these items.
Council Member Yeager stated Glenhurst would like to proceed with the project
as soon as possible. She stated Glenhurst can install the water lines and
electric much cheaper than the city could get contracted.
56.   Council Member Dupps asked if the city had voted in the past months to
accept this property. Council Member Yeager stated it was accepted a year or so
ago.
57.   Council Member Ellison stated this was done a couple of years ago as part
of the agreement to get that parcel of land annexed into the city.
58.   Council Member Dupps stated that was only last summer. Council Member
Ellison stated they have been negotiating a long time with this. Council Member
Dupps stated the document he has is dated December 2, 2002 and does not think
the city had a council meeting in December 2002. Mayor Moriconi asked if it was
a copy of the agreement that was signed by Mayor Kriege. Council Member Dupps
stated that was what he is referencing that says “is offering to donate to the
city certain lands in the deeds to be used as park purposes”. Mayor Moriconi
stated it is in the city and the subdivision is built and there is this plot of
land around a pond that is just a vacant field.
59.   Council Member Dupps stated when he read the part about the sidewalk
around the lake, the city steered clear of ponds and lakes because of the
liability. Council Member Yeager stated the city steered clear of the pond at
Lakefield because the city was only getting half of the lake. Council Member
Dupps stated the city is still suffering with the sinkhole in Hunters Green
that no one can do anything about.
60.   Council Member Franzen stated since the city is talking about taxes and
budget cuts, she does not feel the city needs to be adding another city park.
Council Member Yeager asked if the city wanted to turn down $18,000.00. Council
Member Franzen stated it was okay to accept money but the city has to look at
the ramifications of accepting that park in the future. Council Member Bushong
stated he was all for public facilities and parks but the city is kind of park
poor right now. He stated we are trying to keep up with the parks we have now
also trying to make changes at Memorial Park and to accept another park is to
take on further expenses and liability the city does not want. Council Member
Franzen asked if Glenhurst would donate money toward the city’s other parks.
Council Member Dupps asked if the subdivision was going to have a homeowners
association.
61.   Chief Butler stated he would check to see if the deed has been
transferred to the city and there are no legal issues. Council Member Yeager
stated it has already signed by the past Mayor, Tom Kriege. Chief Butler stated
the trails around the lake have already been added under the previous
administration. Chief Butler asked Attorney Deters if council would need to
vote on these issues as far as what to do with the remaining monies. Attorney
Deters stated in light of the circumstances, he feels the matter should be
voted on.
New Business
Resolution No. 2003-R-25-Supporting a Proposed Tax Amendment to Permit Self-
Storage Facilities & Warehouses as a Conditional Use in the R-RE Zone
62.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-25 supporting a
proposed text amendment to permit self-storage facilities and warehouses as a
conditional use in the R-RE Zone, which is separate from the proposed ordinance
that was discussed earlier. Mr. Deters stated this is in support of a request
from Mrs. Eggleston who wants to put in self-storage on her property that is
zoned R-RE, which is a residential rural estate zone. He stated the first step
if for council to pass a resolution to direct planning and zoning to research
and comment on the text amendment.
63.   Council Member Ellison moved, with second from Council Member Behler.
Roll call was answered with 5 ayes and 1 nay by Council Member Dupps.
Authorize Mayor Moriconi to contract with Deters, Benzinger and LaVelle law
firm for Review and Suggested Amendments to Employee Personnel Policy Handbook
64.   Mayor Moriconi stated he needs authorization to contract with the law
firm to review the city employee personnel policy handbook. Council Member
Behler moved, with second from Council Member Franzen.
65.   Council Member Bushong asked if a set fee had been established. Attorney
Deters stated the fee is a flat rate of between $1,500.00 and $2,000.00. Roll
call was unanimous and the motion carried 6-0 in favor.
Mayor’s Report
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-11-Mayor Moriconi Appointing Dave Millward to the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky
66.   Mayor Moriconi stated Mr. Rich Noah has decided not to renew his term at
the Telecommunications Board and Mayor Moriconi will appoint Mr. Dave Millward
to fill that position at the December 1 council meeting by way of an executive
order.
Municipal Government League Annual Dinner
67.   Mayor Moriconi reminded council of the annual dinner for the Municipal
Government League.
68.   Council Member Dupps stated he would like to make a motion to form a
Citizens Budget Committee so citizens can come forward and have input to the
budget and where amendments need to be made and also research the possibility
of a tax increase being put on a future ballot. Council Member Franzen seconded
the motion. Council Member Yeager asked if citizens would be accepted if they
call in and stated they would like to be on the committee. Attorney Deters
stated if it is a committee the Mayor would have the right to appoint citizens
to such a committee.
69.   Council Member Franzen asked if the motion should be amended to say the
Mayor would appoint the citizens. Council Member Dupps stated, so amended.
Council Member Franzen moved to second the amended motion. Council Member
Yeager asked if the meetings would be advertised for the public. City Clerk,
Patricia Taney stated they would be advertised.
70.   Mrs. JoAnne Cobble stated Mr. Brinker said he wished someone would make
budget suggestions to council. She stated if Mr. Brinker had come to the Caucus
Meeting he would know that budget cut suggestions at the Caucus Meeting
totaling $192,633.00. She stated the Mayor has thrown in their face how no one
came to the budget summit meeting that was held on March 29, 2003. She stated
she was told it was the Mayor’s Inaugural Summit Meeting and in the March
Newsletter there is no mention of the budget summit meeting anywhere in the
newsletter. She stated if that had been in the newsletter she would have
attended the meeting. She stated she would like to suggest when the budget
summit meeting is scheduled to not have it on the day the number one team in
the country, Kentucky Wildcats plays in the regional championships in
Minneapolis.
71.   Mr. Tom Brinker stated he was not able to make the Caucus Meeting but he
did challenge Mrs. Cobble to come up with ways to cut things in the budget and
you did. He stated he does not know what Mrs. Cobble has against him personally
at this particular moment. He stated he thinks he has proven to the citizens
that he is a dedicated citizen and has been attending meetings long before Mrs.
Cobble. He stated he has also given council ways to cut the budget and looked
forward to seeing Mrs. Cobble at the next meeting. Council Member Franzen
stated the point of the committee she thinks is to involve all citizens from
all walks and all parts of the community. Mayor Moriconi asked for those who
are interested to send a letter to the city expressing their interest in
serving on the budget committee.
72.   A roll call for the motion to organize a citizen’s budget committee was
taken and answered unanimously.
73.   Council Member Yeager stated she received a call from a resident that
advised her someone is trying to change their road name from Old Bristow Road
to another name.
74.   Attorney Deters stated it is part of Northern Kentucky Area Planning and
Zonings attempt to straighten out the double street naming. He stated everyone
did receive a letter. Mayor Moriconi stated it is mainly for 911 emergency
services. Attorney Deters stated the resident needs to write a letter to
whomever she received it from.
Executive Session
75.   Council Member Dupps moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing litigation,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion was carried with all ayes.
76.   Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Ellison. Motion carried with all ayes.
Settlement of the Lawsuit - Scheben vs City
77.   Council Member Franzen made a motion to authorize City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters make entry and request a judgment to settle the Scheben lawsuit against
the city regarding a zone change denial for property located at Taylor Mill and
Cox Roads. Council Member Behler seconded the motion. Motion carried with all
ayes.
Adjournment
78.   Council Member Dupps made a motion to adjourn, with second by Council
Member Franzen. Motion carried and the meeting was adjourned at 9:45 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
                     City of Independence, Kentucky
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 17, 2003
City of Independence, Ky.
CAUCUS COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
17, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager answered roll call. Council Member
Jim Ellison was absent. Also attending was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Judy Kite, 708 Independence Station Road, stated she lives on a flag lot and
addressed council regarding a problem she is having a builder (Steve Amann) who
has damaged a section of her property while in the process of constructing a
new home. Mayor Moriconi explained there is an easement that runs across Ms.
Kite’s property which the developer used and then did not return the land to
it’s original condition. Ms. Kite stated that she has spoken to Mr. Amann and
has not been successful in getting him correct the problem.
Mr. Deters advised Ms. Kite that the developer had no right to encroach onto
her property and that because this is a private, civil matter she should retain
an attorney to help her resolve this matter.
Chuck Kahrs, 21 Oby Drive, addressed council again about the persistent
speeding problem on Oby Drive. He urged council to install a permanent speed
hump/bump or a stop sign on Oby Drive, as he feels this will resolve the
speeding problem. Mr. Kahrs distributed a report that he obtained from the
Police Chief that proves that speeding vehicles are a frequent occurrence.
Chief Shawn Butler stated that considering the other speeding complaints he
receives for other areas of the city, if council would set forth guidelines for
speed humps/bumps that would be adopted for the entire city then he would be
agreeable to installing them. He stated that the cost for the permanent humps/
bumps should be considered.
Mr. Kahrs stated a stop sign would have the same effect. Chief Butler stated
that installing a stop sign in the middle of a street that does not intersect
does not meet the criteria of the current city ordinance. Mr. Kahrs suggested a
temporary stop sign. Council Member Franzen said that drivers might ignore the
stop sign and drive right through it. Council Member Yeager commented that this
might be a temporary solution until a permanent resolution can be found for
controlling the speeders on this street. She asked Chief Butler what he
recommended to resolve this ongoing situation. Chief Butler reiterated that he
felt the current speeding problem on Oby Drive was a result of the increased
development of the Freedom Trails Subdivision. He stated this subdivision had
no other egress than Oby Drive and that Oby Drive was not constructed to handle
this volume of traffic. He requested time to respond until after he reviewed
the traffic report and assured Mr. Kahrs that he would continue to work with
him until this speeding problem is finish.
OLD BUSINESS
Building Permits In Relation to the Business License
Mayor Moriconi advised that an issue has been presented as to whether or not
the city can withhold or deny a building permit if the sub-contractors do not
possess a current business license with the city.
Mr. Deters explained that withholding the building permits until all sub
contractors have a city business license is an attempt to ensure that
occupational license and related payroll taxes are being paid to the city. He
stated that the city’s zoning ordinance requires a building permit application
be completed and submitted for approval and if there are blanks for which the
sub-contractor names are to be listed then the permit could be denied for
failing to list the subs. But he stated that in his opinion he does not feel a
permit could be denied if it is discovered that one or more of the sub-
contractors listed do not have a license, unless there was a text amendment
providing that as a condition of issuance of a permit. He stated the current
language of the zoning ordinance does not provide for the denial of a building
permit based on sub-contractors being licensed prior to issuance of a permit.
He concluded that in his opinion it would be inappropriate for the city to deny
a building permit on the basis that a subcontractor is not license.
Council Member Yeager stated that when she requested the city ensure that all
the sub-contractors were paying payroll tax it was not her intent to withhold
building permits. Mr. Deters stated that it would be difficult to police the
sub-contractors and the general contractor cannot be held responsible for the
subs. The City Clerk advised the office would implement a procedure to forward
the list of sub-contractors to the Kenton County Occupational License
Director’s office who would then verify the businesses that were licensed and
send notices to the sub-contractors that needed to obtain a license.
Discussion Regarding the Proposed Ordinance Relating to Sidewalk Waiver
Requests
Mr. Deters advised that he met with the city engineer and building inspector to
review the proposed ordinance that would provide a sidewalk waiver to
properties that have unusual topographical conditions as well as ensuring that
construction of a sidewalk would be done at a later date if there were physical
changes to the land. He stated that the ordinance has been revised to
incorporate everyone’s concerns. He advised that the waiver would be considered
temporary and a lien would be recorded to ensure that construction of a
sidewalk would be completed at a later date should the city later deem it
necessary due to a change in circumstances. Mr. Deters stated that the lien
would be an amount deemed appropriate by the building inspector and city
engineer together with a three percent per annum interest rate which would
cover the cost of the construction of the sidewalk in the future.
Council Member Dupps asked how this would be handled in the future should it be
determined a sidewalk should be construction. Mr. Deters advised that notice
would be given to the property owner and the lien enforced at that time.
Council Member Dupps commented that sometimes the sidewalks that are being
constructed now appear to go nowhere but years from now they will connect. Mr.
Deters advised that the proposed ordinance would ensure that sidewalks would be
installed in the future if it the landscape is altered to accommodate one.
Discussion Regarding the Glenhurst Park Development Plan
Mayor Moriconi asked Chief Butler to explain the status of the development of
the Glenhurst Park. Chief Butler stated the developers of the Glenhurst
Subdivision, along with the land for the park area, are also contributing
$25,000 for the development of the park. He stated he met with Council Member
Yeager to review the possible options available to the city. Chief Butler
advised that a sidewalk has been constructed around the lake area, which cost
$8,000, so the balance of $17,000 is available for other improvements to the
park area. He stated the developer would like the city to select the other
facilities to be installed.
Council Member Bushong expressed concern with the lake area, which he stated is
actually a retention pond. He stated that he disagrees with the city’s decision
to assume responsibility of this retention pond and calling it a lake. Mr.
Deters advised the city assumed responsibility when the area was deeded over to
the city in December 2002. Council Member Franzen also expressed concern with
children playing in the area of the pond.
Chief Butler suggested the city use the remaining $17,000 to have the developer
install electric for the placement of security lights. Council Member Yeager
agreed with the installation of electrical lines as well as suggested water
pipes for a future drinking fountain. She stated that sanitation lines would
not be necessary as there are no future plans for restrooms in this park. Chief
Butler commented it would be beneficial and more cost effective to have water
and electric lines installed now for future use.
Council Member Yeager stated she would also like to see about $10,000 allocated
for playground equipment. Council Member Franzen asked if the land was
conducive for the installation of ball fields. Chief Butler commented that ball
fields would require parking lots. Council Member Franzen suggested using the
money in the other parks and just leave the Glenhurst Park area as green space.
Mayor Moriconi advised the park area in the subdivision is a facility that
attracts new homebuyers to the development and felt sure the developer would
want his donation to stay with the Glenhurst Park.
Council Member Franzen commented that she was in favor of keeping this park as
passive recreation and installing the water and electric lines. Council Member
Yeager advised the city would reap more of a benefit by having the developer
install the utility lines while the area is being developed. Council Member
Behler concurred by commenting that the utility lines sounds like the best plan
for the area.
Mr. Deters commented that hopefully when the Sanitation District assumes full
responsibility of the storm water utility over the next several years that the
retention pond will be part of the takeover. Council Member Bushong agreed that
the utility lines were the best way to spend the remainder of the donation by
the developer. Mayor Moriconi advised that a formal recommendation to spend the
remainder of the money would be presented for council to accept at the December
1, 2003 council meeting.
New Business
Request for Water Service on Webster Road by Michelle and Michael Herrman
Michelle and Michael Herrman addressed council with a request for assistance in
obtaining water service and fire protection for property located at 345 Webster
Road. They submitted an estimate obtained by the Water District’s engineer
(Viox & Viox, Inc.) in the amount of $72,531.00. Mrs. Herrman stated the Water
District is requiring the installation of an eight-inch water main as well as
four fire hydrants along the 1720 linear feet of service line. She stated that
she petitioned the other property owners in the area to see if there was any
interest in obtaining public water service. Only one other property owner (399
Webster Road) was interested, the others stated that they were not interested
due to the extreme cost.
Mrs. Herrman stated that they felt the Water District’s requirements for an
eight-inch water main and four fire hydrants were excessive considering Webster
Road is a dead-end street. She also felt the residents should not have to pay
for the engineering costs. Mrs. Herrman stated that the District also requires
the main extend across the full road frontage of their parcel which she feels
is excessive considering the property owners at 431 and 5025 have stated they
do not desire water service. She stated that the District has said that there
are some exceptions to their requirements and would like the city to intervene
in an effort to obtain a more affordable price for this service.
Council Member Yeager asked what the city could do to assist the Herrman’s.
Council Member Franzen pointed to page two of the Herrman’s letter that
requests the city assist in obtaining low-cost financing.
Chief Butler commented that other areas of the city are dealing with the same
issues. He stated that the Water District has established a twenty-year plan
and if their area is a low priority on the plan they may not get service any
time soon. He stated the city has not control over the Water District’s
procedures for providing water service to their customers.
Mrs. Herrman stated the Water District recommended they approach the city for
assistance. Chief Butler asked what type of assistance they would like to
obtain from the city. She stated that she did not expect the city would foot
the bill for the entire project but suggested the city may assist by applying
for a grant or paying a portion. There was some discussion regarding a ‘spider’
line, which Mrs. Herrman advised the Water District has stated they would not
permit that type of connection. Council Member Bushong suggested a double meter
that could be tapped onto a neighbor’s line.
Mayor Moriconi advised the Herrman’s that he would be willing to set up a
meeting with representatives of the Water District or write a letter of support
if it would help. Chief Butler stated it comes down to money and if the city
provides financial assistance to the Hermann’s then it would set precedent for
future requests. Council Member Franzen suggested inviting the Water District
to the next caucus meeting to discuss this matter. The City Clerk asked the
Hermann’s if they were in the process of building their house. Mrs. Hermann
stated they have prepared the building plans and have contracted a builder, but
the water lines have the construction start date on hold until they can find a
resolution. Mr. Deters suggested they install a cistern and move on. Chief
Butler stated he would invite the Water District to the December caucus
meeting.
Discussion Regarding the Banklick Watershed Study – Melissa Jort, NKAPC
Mayor Moriconi introduced Melissa Jort, from the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission who was present to speak about the Banklick Watershed
Study.
Ms. Jort stated she wanted to familiarize the city with the Banklick Watershed
Council, which has recently received a grant to conduct the study. She stated
the project would be looking for ways to improve the watershed, which are
natural catch basins, both visible and invisible and will link this to urban
forestry. The project will help make the community healthy and attractive She
stated that the urban forest provides a number of functions that are vital to
the health of cities – trees absorb pollutants, cleanse our water supply,
provide shade to cool the city’s temperature in summer reducing energy demands,
provide flood control and enhance our landscape. She advised that Banklick
Creek, which is surrounded by steep slopes, has been identified as an impaired
waterway.
Ms. Jort stated that the Council was originally formed to educate the public on
the importance of clean water for the public health and welfare. She stated
that currently the Council’s overall goals for this project are to identify
‘’hot spots’’ along the watershed where urban forestry techniques could be
effectively implemented to improve the water quality, public education and
input and finally, produce a manual for other Watershed Councils. She stated
the project schedule is now through the end of 2004 to gather data, identify
issues and develop the manual with the promotion and distribution of the
published report in 2005.
Ms. Jort requested support on this project from the city by communicating the
importance of this project to the citizens. She asked for a city representative
that would act as a liaison to receive information as well as help in promoting
the results of the study.
Council Member Bushong asked if the citizens should report areas of erosion
and/or flooding. Ms. Jort replied yes, as well as providing information about
the location of stream areas. Council Member Bushong asked if the Council would
be conducting surveys as part of the project. Ms. Jort stated they may, but are
planning public forums where focus groups will speak face to face with the
citizens.
Mayor Moriconi advised Ms. Jort that Council Member Dupps has volunteered to be
the city’s contact person with the Banklick Watershed Council, and Council
Member Behler has volunteered to be the alternate. Mayor Moriconi asked Ms.
Jort if she knew of any grants available for the purchase of property along the
watershed area. She replied that she was not aware of any grants available to
acquire land, but would check into it. Mayor Moriconi thanks Ms. Jort for
addressing council on this matter.
Discussion Regarding a Proposed Ordinance to Approve a Text Amendment
(Application No. 1640R by Martin Neltner)
Mayor Moriconi advised this ordinance for this zoning text amendment would be
presented for a second reading at the December 1, 2003 council meeting. He
stated Mr. Neltner was in attendance to present a proposed site plan for the
development that prompted his appeal for this text amendment.
Mr. Neltner advised he met with the neighboring property owners last week to
inform them of his plans for the property behind the Cherokee shopping center
and gather their input and address their concerns. He stated he would like to
install a storage facility with an attractive buffer to make this structure
less offensive to the neighbors. He stated their concerns were too much
security lighting and having the facility designed so that it would not be too
obtrusive. Mr. Neltner advised that he has not received formal approval for
this development, as the area needs some improvement. Mayor Moriconi asked if
he planned on parking garages, as the recommendation handed down from the KCPC
makes it sound if he wants a text amendment to add parking garages. Mr. Neltner
stated he does not plan parking garages, just storage garages. He would like to
utilize a few of the garages for his own property maintenance type of
equipment. Mr. Deters stated that KCPC recommendation terms the facility as a
parking garage for which they have recommended approval, but had recommended
disapproval for the storage garage. Council Member Behler asked if the area
already had a natural barrier. Mr. Neltner stated there are a lot of scrub
trees, which will be removed, but the other trees will be reserved, as well as
the additional installation of shrubs, etc.
Council Member Franzen stated she would like to hear from any of the residents
who live in that area.
Mr. Lancaster, 733 Cox Road, stated that Mr. Neltner did not submit a
definitive plan to the residents. He stated some approved of Mr. Neltner’s
proposal, and others were unsure since he did not submit a site plan. Mr.
Lancaster stated that he feels this type of storage facility should be
permitted in an industrial zone, not a neighborhood shopping center. He urged
the city to inspect the site, as the area slopes and this may cause water
drainage problems.
Mrs. Walker, 6446 Shawnee Court, stated she has lived there since 1973 and in
recent years the area was allowed to become overgrown in an effort to
discourage foot traffic behind the shopping center. She stated she is concerned
as the site is surrounded on three sides that are residential property. Mrs.
Walker expressed concern that they will loose their privacy and that her
property value will decrease.
Mr. Deters advised that the city’s current zoning ordinance permits storage
facilities in the IP (Industrial Park) zone only. Council Member Bushong asked
how the Richardson Road storage facility as able to come about. Council Member
Dupps stated that that particular area on Richardson Road is zoned IP.
Mr. John Huffman, introduced himself as the owner of the storage facility on
Richardson Road. He stated that he does not live in Independence, but runs his
office out of the Richardson Road self-storage facility. He expressed concern,
that in permitting Mr. Neltner to develop another storage facility in the city
there would be excess storage available, and not enough demand, leaving these
facilities unoccupied. Council Member Dupps asked Mr. Huffman what his
occupancy rate was. Mr. Huffman replied that it was 25% less than he was
assured it would be.
Lola Belville, 741 Cox Road, expressed concern that a storage facility would
devalue her property.
Karyl Shouse,737 Cox Road, told council that she does not want a storage
facility in her back yard.
Mike Walker, 6446 Shawnee, stated he was concerned about the noise pollution by
the cars that would enter the facility. He also pointed out that the site was
surrounded by residential properties.
Mr. Neltner commented that the adjoining property owners all had the
opportunity to purchase the land, but did not. He stated the property is zoned
commercial and he is entitled to develop it as it is currently zoned in a
commercial way that could generate even more traffic than a storage facility.
He stated that he feels this is the most logical development for the site and
would work with the neighbors and city to develop an attractive facility. He
stated the site is now housing some debris, as it has become a dumping ground
by some of the abutting property owners.
Mr. Deters advised Mr. Neltner that the city had a first reading of the
proposed text amendment ordinance at the November 3 council meeting. He stated
that the proposed ordinance accepts the recommendation as submitted to the city
by the KCPC. Mr. Deters advised council that the city needs more zones than
just the IP zone designated to house these types of uses.
Mayor Moriconi asked council if they wanted to move forward with a second
reading of this ordinance. The majority of the council members indicated they
did not want to proceed with the ordinance as it has been presented at the
first reading. Mr. Deters suggested a zoning text amendment to permit storage
facilities in the IP and NSC zones. Council Member Franzen stated she would
like to inspect Mr. Neltner’s property. Mr. Deters advised that council had
plenty of time to act on a proposed text amendment recommendation. A member in
the audience suggested the site should be returned to the original residential
zone. Mr. Deters advised the property is zoned commercial in keeping with the
Comprehensive Plan that was adopted. Mayor Moriconi stated that in order to
return the zone to residential Mr. Neltner would have to make application to
have it re-zoned residential again.
Mayor Moriconi advised that this proposed text amendment ordinance will not be
presented for a second reading at the December 1, 2003 council and will be
postponed indefinitely. Mr. Deters advised everyone that this property owned by
Mr. Neltner, with the commercial zoning, allows him forty-five other uses which
could generate a lot more traffic in the area. Mayor Moriconi reiterated that
this matter would be postponed until a later time and after the council members
look over the area.
Proposed Ordinance that would Repeal Ordinance No. 1-11-87 Pertaining to
Justice Lane
Mr. Deters explained that he has drafted an ordinance that would repeal
Ordinance No. 1-11-87, which was adopted in 1987 to accept Justice Lane as a
city maintained street. He stated this ordinance was adopted at an emergency
reading because a resident on Justice Lane needed it to meet a deadline for a
loan closing since the house on Justice Lane did not have frontage on a public
dedicated street. He stated apparently the bank providing the loan to the
resident required Justice Lane to be approved for maintenance by the city. He
stated that the problem is that Justice Lane was never dedicated for acceptance
and was never platted for dedication, nor was it improved to city standards
therefore making Ordinance No. 1-11-87 invalid. Mr. Deters also advised the
city has never provided maintenance of the street. He stated that the ordinance
should be cleared off the books so this matter can be put to rest.
Mayor Moriconi stated the ordinance would be presented for a first reading at
the December 1, 2003 council meeting.
Proposed Executive Order Appointing Additional Citation Officers
Mr. Deters advised that an Executive Order has been drafted that will appoint
additional citation officers for the city. He stated that several months ago it
was noticed that the city had several people who had citation authority and
that some might not have been as knowledgeable of the code restrictions to
shoulder the full responsibility that this authority requires. He stated that
currently the Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld is the only citation
officer for the city. Mr. Deters advised that the current citation process has
been reconsidered and it has been determined that the Building Inspector and
the Public Works Crew Leader should be appointed citation officers so they
would have the authority to cite violations of other city ordinances. He
advised that Annie Wuestefeld mainly cites zoning ordinance violations and by
authorizing the personnel of Building and Public Works Departments the issues
dealing with streets and building violations could be handled more efficiently.
Council Member Yeager expressed concern that anyone could issue citations and
suggested it is specified the type of citation that each citation officer would
be empowered to issue. Mr. Deters assured her that the appropriate person would
handle the necessary citation most compatible with each department. He stated
this will provide more time to analyze the citation needs of the city.
Mayor Moriconi stated the Executive Order appointing the additional citation
officers would be presented at the December 1, 2003 council meeting.
Discussion Regarding Establishing Property Condemnation Procedures
Mr. Deters advised council the city has some properties that need to be
condemned as they are structurally unsound and in violation of the property
maintenance code. He stated the city cuts the grass and does some basic
property maintenance and then places a lien on the property. He stated that the
property at 5220 Belle Drive is a public safety hazard, for which the city
could initiate condemnation proceedings and order the structure to be razed. He
advised that if the property owner disregarded the order, then the city could
level the property and place a lien on the property for the cost to do the
work. He stated that this would be an expense to the city, which may not be
reimbursed to the city until a later date when the property is sold. Mr. Deters
recommended before condemning a property that it be inspected by the building
inspector and city engineer to ensure it is structurally unsafe and the provide
a short abatement period to the property owner. Mayor Moriconi concurred that
the property on Belle Drive is a safety concern for the city. Mr. Stan Kahrs, a
resident of Belle Drive, informed council that the residents on Belle Drive
have tolerated this blighted property too long. There was a brief discussion
whether or not the property could be used by the Fire District as a training
tool for a controlled burn. Mr. Deters advised that appropriate notice should
be sent to the property owner.
Business Recognition for the Month of December
Mayor Moriconi stated he would select a business for the month of December.
Crowe Road Update by City Engineer, Mark Brueggemann, CDS Associates, Inc.
Mr. Brueggemann advised council that several months ago he reported to the city
the cost to replace the bridge over Richardson Road. He stated that this bridge
has an eight-ton limit, which is being exceeded by the Rumpke trash hauling
trucks. He advised that it has been determined that it would be more economical
to replace the bridge than to restore it to its original condition. The bridge
replacement cost would run about $440,000 and there is no inexpensive option to
make the current bridge safe other than re-opening the intersection of
Richardson Road and Old Route 17, and even though traffic in that area is
considerably less now that Route 17 has been re-routed it is not really a safe
option. He stated that another issue that needs to be addressed is the
landslides occurring in the same area of the bridge. He advised that Crowe Road
has active slides occurring along the bank of the creek, which presents another
potential issue of conserving access to the properties on Crowe Road. Mr.
Brueggemann guestimated that the cost to repair the landslides would be around
$700,000.
Council Member Yeager commented that Richardson Road is state maintained.
Council Member Bushong asked if the city has looked into the cost to buy out
the property owners on Crowe Road, as it may be a more cost effective option
for the city compared to the estimated cost to replace the bridge. Chief Butler
commented the city needs to move forward with some option so as to limit the
excess liability. Council Member Bushong asked if the property owners on Crowe
Road have been surveyed. Mayor Moriconi advised that he would be contacting the
City of Erlanger in an effort to share the cost of repairing the bridge, since
Erlanger residents that border the area use the bridge. Chief Butler stated
this issue has been talked to death and advised the city needs to begin
allocating funds in the next budget. Council Member Yeager inquired about help
from the Corp of Engineers. Chief Butler stated the Corp has denied the city
assistance on this matter. Council Member Behler commented that the city needs
to decide a plan of action. Council Member Franzen asked about applying for a
grant to help defray the cost of this project. Chief Butler stated it is
several months out, but feels the city needs to show an effort is being made to
deal with this liability. Mr. Deters stated that if the city decides to buyout
the property owners on Crowe Road, then perhaps an option would be to demolish
the bridge.
Mr. Brueggemann advised that it would be advisable to study the long-term
effect of the current erosion problem of the creek bank, as it could migrate
down stream. Chief Butler stated the city should pursue contacting the property
owners to see if there will be objections to the buyout and then pursue all
other options. Mr. Deters advised the city is obligated to maintain the street
and the buyout could be private or by eminent domain if there are those who
raise objections. Mayor Moriconi stated that he would first like to discuss the
bridge matter with the City of Erlanger to see if they would be agreeable to
sharing the expense, then contact the homeowners on Crowe Road.
Discussion Regarding a Street Repair Plan
Mr. Brueggemann stated he has been asked to give an opinion on whether the city
should require developers to install concrete streets or asphalt. He stated
that pavement sections, regardless of the material are required to carry a
given umber of vehicles over the lifespan of the street. He stated that
concrete is more rigid, but if the sub grade fails due to lack of proper
compacting or if water infiltrates this will cause weakness and it will not
hold up as long as it should. He advised that asphalt is not as rigid giving
way to potholes. He stated that the key to either material is protecting the
sub grade. Mr. Deters commented that the sub grade surface is designed to work
with the topcoat and often weakens over the time period before the topcoat is
put down. Council Member Behler asked if the city should be requiring the
developers to install an under drain. Mr. Brueggemann that could be a solution,
but there would still be side entry water conditions. Mr. Deters stated that
requiring under drains would probably have to be an amendment to the
subdivision regulations. Mr. Brueggemann concurred that it would be an
amendment to the subdivision regulations as well as costly for the developers
to install, probably about $20 per foot. He stated he felt there were other
options that could be considered. Mr. Deters stated that in order to amend the
subdivision regulation the city would have to obtain approval from KCPC. Mr.
Brueggemann stated that the solution to a successful pavement is the base. He
advised he would investigate all options and report back to council by the next
caucus meeting.
Discussion Regarding Rice Road Storm Water Drainage Problem
Mayor Moriconi stated Mr. Brueggemann has inspected the storm water drainage
condition on Rice Road that was brought to the city’s attention by Mrs. Case.
Council Member Yeager asked if Rice Road was a platted street. Mr. Brueggemann
stated that he has not checked at the courthouse, but that the road is
indicated on the GIS map as a platted street. Mr. Deters commented that it is a
public road.
Mr. Brueggemann reported that Rice Road has an asphalt pavement and is twenty
foot wide. He inspected the road and specifically Mrs. Case’s property at 522
Rice Road. He stated that storm water flows off the pavement and into her yard
which then flows to the existing creek. Mr. Brueggemann stated the storm water
has flowed this way for many years and the pavement in the areas of Mrs. Case‘s
property does not appear to have been changed. He state the erosion occurring
along her driveway is a result of the construction of the driveway and that it
acts to intercept the water that sheets off the pavement. He stated there is a
small area washed out with some minor erosion. He stated that the city could
place some gravel to rebuild the shoulder area and then the owner should
construct a small swale along the upper side of the driveway, as the channel is
not silted up. Mr. Brueggemann advised if the city does the shoulder work,
which is in the right of way, and the owner does some minor clean out to
develop a swale to access the culvert area this should solve the problem.
Council Member Bushong commented that Jeff Smith has a video that he shot
during a rain storm that is available for viewing that clearly indicates this
problem is minor. Mr. Brueggemann advised that if the city installs a curb then
the water would just be re-directed to another pointed location. He stated the
city is only responsible to improve the shoulder area. Mr. Deters concurred and
added that beyond the right of way, it is the property owner’s responsibility.
Cross Walks Repainted on Madison Pike
Council Member Dupps advised that he has requested Chief Butler to contact the
state highway department to see about having the cross walks on Madison Pike
re-striped. He stated they were covered when the street was blacktopped.
Executive Session
Council Member Bushong made a motion to enter into executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
Upon motion by Council Member Behler and second by Council Member Franzen the
meeting returned to regular session. Motion carried with all ayes.
Mayor Moriconi announced that no action was taken in executive session.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved with second by
Council Member Behler to adjourn. The meeting adjourned at 9:50 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 1, 2003
City of Independence, Ky.
COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
December 1, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. In the absence of Reverend Eric Bryant
of Grace Community Church, Mr. Jim Kudera gave the invocation. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim
Bushong, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated that LSI Imaging has been selected as the recipient
of the Business of the Month tribute for December, but since a representative
from the company was not present to receive the plaque, he would invite them to
the January meeting.
Approval of the Minutes of the November 3, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of November 3,
2003 regular council meeting. Council Member Dupps so moved, with a second from
Council Member Behler. Amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Approval of the November 17, 2003 Caucus Meeting Minutes
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the November
17, 2003 caucus meeting of council. Council Member Yeager moved, with a second
by Council Member Bushong. Amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Privileges of the Floor
5.   Mayor Moriconi announced that no one signed up to address Council.
Proposed Ordinance Providing for Sidewalk Waivers – 1st Reading
6.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance relating to the construction of sidewalks in the city and providing
for waivers with the use of a property lien. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance. He explained that some property owners have approached the city
seeking waivers of the subdivision regulation that requires the construction of
a sidewalk prior to being given a certificate of occupancy. He stated that in
exceptional instances extreme sloping of the property would prompt the request
of a sidewalk waiver. Mr. Deters stated that this ordinance would ensure that
construction of the sidewalk would be done in the future if conditions of the
topography change so as to accommodate a sidewalk. He stated that a lien would
be placed on the property to cover the cost of the sidewalk construction in the
future.
7.   Council Member Yeager asked if an extension was included. Mr. Deters
advised that the city has granted a couple of sidewalk waivers recently; not
extensions.
Resolution No. 2003-R-26 – Glenhurst Park Improvements by the Developer
8.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2003-R-26 that notifies
the Glenhurst Subdivision’s developer of the city’s direction for the
appropriation of the donated funds for the development of the Glenhurst Park.
9.   Chief Butler stated he discussed with Council Member Yeager the park
improvement options available to the city. He stated they would like to
eliminate the request for a shelter and replace that with some playground
equipment. Council Member Yeager stated she also feels the city should be
specific on which utilities the city would like the developer to install. Chief
Butler stated the water and electric utilities could be provided at a lesser
cost to the developer than if the city had to do so in the future. He stated
the developer could handover the remainder ($10,000) of the allocated funds to
the city so that the city could purchase the playground equipment. He stated
that since the city is tax exempt, the play equipment could be purchased for
fewer dollars.
10.   The amendments were recorded and Council Member Yeager moved to approve
Resolution No. 2003-R-26, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll call was
answered unanimously and the motion carried 5-0.
Presentation of the 2002-03 Audit by Jim Sparrow of Rankin, Rankin and Company
11.    Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Jim Sparrow of Rankin, Rankin and Company
who was present to review the 2002/03 fiscal year audit report of the city’s
financial records.
12.   Mr. Sparrow distributed the presentation package of the audit report and
reviewed the highlights with council. He advised that the first page of the
report states that the general purpose financial statements are the
responsibility of the city management and the auditor’s responsibility is to
express an opinion on the financial statements based on the audit. He stated
that page two was the combined balance sheet of all the city funds – general,
special revenue, debt service and capital projects. He advised that the capital
projects included the Senior Center, Building Fund and Municipal Center.
13.   Mr. Sparrow advised the city had a little over $7,000,000 in cash and
investments during this period, which decreased somewhat due to the
expenditures on the Municipal Center. He stated the general fixed assets, such
as the Municipal Building, parks and vehicles and equipment amounted to a
little over $4,000,000. He stated the accounts payable saw an increase of
$237,000 largely due to the payables related to the Municipal Building.
14.   He advised that there was a $300,000 debt reduction on the bonds. He
stated that the Capital Projects funds were issued during the 2001/02 fiscal
year for the construction of the Municipal Center, but the proceeds from the
bonds had not begun to be spent until 2002/03 and that most will be expended by
June 30, 2004. Mr. Sparrow advised that total revenue in the general fund for
2002/03 was $3,718,079 with expenditures of $3,682,975; the excess was due to
vehicle lease proceeds. He stated that the special revenues, including
municipal road aid totaled $237,038.00 and expenditures of $397,732.00, but
that the city had carried a fund balance from the prior year so that the
balance broke even for 2002/03.
15.   Mr. Sparrow pointed out that the debt service fund proceeds exceeded the
amount of debt services fees for that year. He stated that the city’s revenues
are comprised of taxes at 54%, charges for services at 26%, intergovernmental
at 11%, licenses and permits at 5% and fines, interest and miscellaneous at 4%.
He advised that General Government expenditures increased by $110,000, police
by $187,00, sanitation by $95,000 and debt services payments increased by
$342,000. He stated that the debt service is a little high due to the Municipal
Center and Fowler Creek Sewer bonds. He indicated that while the police
department is the largest city expense that it is in line with what is
considered normal.
16.   Council Member Bushong asked about the expenses for the Memorial Park
Amphitheater and if city funds were added to the state and private donations.
Mr. Sparrow stated that the private and grant money was still being spent.
17.   Council Member Bushong inquired about the trash assessment revenue/
expenditures pass through. Mr. Sparrow indicated that the trash assessment
revenue was $516,997 and expenditures of $555,761. He stated that the revenue
shortfall might be due to delinquencies or a rate change sometime during the
fiscal year. Council Member Bushong suggested the city should coordinate the
trash contract to coincide with the fiscal year. Council Member Yeager
commented that the trash assessment revenue will never be equal with the
expenditures as there are delinquent tax bills. Finance Director, Teresa Hudson
commented that she is tracking suggested changes to the budget for future
amendments. Mr. Sparrow advised that the trash assessment revenue/expenditure
pass through should be shown in the budget and not just a bookkeeping entry.
18.   There being no further questions, Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Sparrow for
his presentation. Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to adopt the audit.
Council Member Bushong so moved with second by Council Member Yeager. Roll call
was unanimous and the motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment Application No. 1643R
19.   Mayor Moriconi advised council that the map amendment for twenty acres on
the south side of Bristow Road is not in the city, therefore this item is not a
city matter and is deleted from the agenda.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment Application No. 1648R – 5298 Madison Pike
from R-1C to NC – 1st Reading
20.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that would approve a map amendment for a zone change for the property
located at 5298 Madison Pike from R-1C to NC. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised the ordinance would be presented for a second
reading at the January 5, 2004 meeting.
21.   Council Member Dupps asked if this zone change was for only one parcel.
Mayor Moriconi replied yes, and explained that it abuts the new Victorian style
building on Madison Pike. Council Member Dupps suggested the city discuss the
downtown area with the Area Planning Commission in an effort to develop a plan
to continue this type of revitalization. Mr. Deters commented that the
restoring of the downtown area is dependent on private developers. Mayor
Moriconi stated the city would consider each redevelopment as they are
presented. Council Member Dupps suggested that the city, along with the
Planning Commission review the Comprehensive Plan to consider more suitable
zoning that would promote commercial redevelopment in the downtown area. Mr.
Deters stated that the last two zone changes have certainly changed the type of
uses for the properties, which would be cause for the Planning Commission to
rethink the zone plan in this area. Council Member Dupps expressed concern of
spot zoning, even though he does not believe it is the intent of the Planning
Commission to do so. Mr. Deters commented that if the city attempts to spot
zone properties that the Planning Commission would caution the city against
this.
Contract with the Independence Senior Center Board of Directors for Use of the
Independence Senior/Community Center
22.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a lease agreement that has been
presented to the city by the Senior Center Board of Directors. Mr. Deters
advised council that he would like to make some modification to the proposed
agreement and suggested that the legal description of the property be attached.
Council Member Yeager was concerned about the additional time this would take,
as the agreement needs to be attached to the application for a gaming license
so that the Board can begin holding bingos. Mr. Deters stated he would confer
with Mr. Voelker of the Senior Board to discuss amendments so that the lease
agreement can be resubmitted to council as soon as possible. Council Member
Bushong expressed concern that the insurance premiums may increase with this
kind of use of the building and suggested the City Clerk discuss this with the
city’s insurance agent.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
23.   Chief Butler gave an update to council regarding the ongoing speeding
problem on Oby Drive. He stated that he stands by his initial report to council
and supports the continued use of radar and additional patrolling in the area.
He reiterated that installing a stop sign in the middle of Oby Drive does not
meet state guidelines for traffic control. He stated he recommends against that
as an enforcement measure to control speeders and stated he would prefer to
look at the cost to install speed humps.
24.   Mr. Chuck Kahrs, 25 Oby Drive, commented that he appreciates the efforts
of Chief Butler, but the current measures are not working. Chief Butler stated
he has tried to resolve this problem with radar enforcement and doesn’t know
what else to do. He advised council that they could override his recommendation
and go ahead and install a stop sign, which would satisfy Mr. Kahrs. Mr. Kahrs
stated this problem has been unresolved for six months and asked council to
install a sign, even temporarily. Council Member Yeager expressed concern that
this situation could be a liability for the city especially since the matter
has been brought to the city’s attention; it should be resolved to everyone’s
satisfaction. Council Member Franzen stated she was not sure that a stop sign
was the solution to this situation. She stated that many neighborhoods have
similar problems with speeders and was concerned that installing a stop sign in
the middle of the street that does not intersect would be setting a precedent.
Chief Butler stated that installing a stop sign is not even one of expense, but
that stop signs are not supposed to be used as speed enforcement. Mr. Deters
stated that passing a new law would not stop those already breaking the law.
Chief Butler stated that he supports the installation of speed humps but that
first he would insist that the city formulate the criteria for them to be used
citywide. He stated he would continue to run radar while studying the speed
hump solution.
25.   There was a discussion with regard to amending the current ordinance,
changing the specifics to regulate the entire city or drafting an ordinance
that would pertain to Oby Drive only. Mr. Deters advised that a stop sign on
Oby Drive would be easier than installing a speed hump. Council Member Yeager
urged the council to do something right away, even if it is a temporary stop
sign. Mr. Deters stated he could draft an ordinance to present at the next
meeting. Chief Butler stated that state law might prohibit this, although it is
a practice used in some areas. Council Member Behler commented if state law
prohibits the use of stop signs to control speeders, how would the Chief feel
about enforcing a city ordinance that is contrary to the state law. He stated
he would prefer not to use a stop sign in this situation and is continuing to
research the state statute. Council Member Franzen stated if the speeders are
not slowing down, how the city can expect they will observe a stop sign. She
stated if a sign is installed, that it should only be a temporary measure until
a more permanent resolution can be found. Chief Butler asked council to send
their comments regarding this matter to him by e-mail.
26.   Chief Butler stated the department held a successful food drive and if
anyone knows of needy families to call his office. He stated that last year
they were able to supply food to thirty families and hoped to increase that
number this year.
27.   He reported that the construction of a restroom facility in Memorial park
was progressing. Chief Butler also reported that the Christmas Walk and Tour
would be this Friday, December 5, 2003 from 7 – 9 p.m.
28.   Chief Butler reported that Ken Hicks of the Public Works Department
recently achieved the designation of road scholar.
MAYOR’S REPORT - Christian J. Moriconi
Accept Resignation of Council Member Jim Ellison
29.   Mayor Moriconi stated that Council Member Jim Ellison has submitted his
resignation from council. Council Member Dupps moved to accept Mr. Ellison’s
resignation, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 5-0.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-12 – Appointing Additional Citation Officers
30.   Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2003-EO-12 appointing
additional citation officers for the city. They are Jeff Smith of the Public
Works Department and Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-13 – Appointment to the OKI Regional Council of
Governments
31.   Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2003-EO-13 appointing
Council Member Carol Franzen as the city’s representative to the OKI Regional
Council of Governments.
Executive Order No. 2003-EO-14 – Appointment to the Senor Board of Directors
32.   Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2003-EO-14 appointing Steve
Simon to the Board of Directors of the Independence Senior Citizens Center,
Inc.
Announcements
33.   Mayor Moriconi announced that the city would host a Town Hall meeting for
the Kenton County Fiscal Court on Tuesday, December 16, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at
the Courthouse. He encouraged everyone to attend.
34.   Mayor Moriconi advised that he would assign the duties of the ABC
administrator to the City Clerk. He stated that formerly this was the duty of
the City Administrator. Mayor Moriconi directed the city attorney to draft an
Executive Order to present at the next meeting.
Executive Session
35.   Council Member Bushong moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(f) for the purpose of discussing personnel as it
relates to selecting a council replacement for the seat vacated by Jim Ellison.
Motion carried with all ayes.
36.   Council Member Bushong moved to reconvene the regular session of the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Replacement for Council Member Jim Ellison
37.   Mayor Moriconi advised that council has decided to select a replacement
for the council seat vacated by Mr. Jim Ellison from the last two finalists
from the previous process a couple of months ago when Mr. Otis Ketron’s
position was filled. He stated that council has chosen Mr. Tom Brinker to take
Mr. Ellison’ position on council. Mayor Moriconi advised that Mr. Brinker would
take the Oath of Office prior to the Special Council Meeting on December 15,
2003.
Adjournment
38.   Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn, with second by Council
Member Behler. Motion carried and the meeting was adjourned at 8:41 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
                     City of Independence, Kentucky
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 15, 2003
City of Independence, Ky.
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
15, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Mary Pat Behler, Donna Yeager,
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen and Eric Dupps answered roll call.
Privileges of the Floor
Sandra Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane, stated she was there to address council once
again on behalf of Justice Lane. She stated Justice Lane was on the agenda
earlier but was removed from the last council meeting. She stated that the city
ordinance that is in place should be upheld. She stated she has retained an
attorney, Mr. Tim Theisen. She stated that Mr. Theisen has already spoken to
City Attorney, Jed Deters. She stated she would like the matter settled and get
a commitment from the city to maintain the road. She stated according to her
counsel she does have a strong case but does not want to sue the city if she
doesn’t have to. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated on behalf of the city he has
spoke to Mrs. Woolum’s attorney and advised council not to speak of this. He
stated he has been instructed by the city that the matter will not be on the
agenda until he and Mr. Theisen resolve the matter. Mrs. Woolum asked if she
would be notified when this matter comes back on the agenda. City Attorney, Jed
Deters stated her attorney would be notified when it comes back to council.
Mrs. Woolum asked if the city is going to maintain the road until the matter is
resolved.
City Attorney, Jed Deters stated he could not answer that at this time. Mrs.
Woolum asked how she gets council to answer that question. City Attorney, Jed
Deters stated she would have to speak to her attorney.
Mayor Moriconi asked City Attorney, Jed Deters if all communication will be
handled thru Mr. Theisen and himself. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated as the
city attorney he is advising Mayor and Council not to discuss the issue because
of the legal process.
Mrs. Woolum asked City Attorney, Jed Deters because he has a personal interest
in the matter, should the city retain other legal counsel. City Attorney, Jed
Deters stated not at this time. He stated he has a dower interest of 1/9th of
twenty-five acres. Mrs. Woolum stated the dower interest of 1/9th of the
twenty-five acres is the whole issue because you are saying the person that
passed away was the owner of the road in some way or another. City Attorney,
Jed Deters stated he was a co-owner of the road. Mrs. Woolum stated if City
Attorney, Jed Deters has a personal interest is it ethical to be representing
the city. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated that at this time he is not
conflicted and if it arises, he would advise the city to seek other counsel.
Mrs. Woolum asked if she should have her attorney proceed in a different
direction because she wants to settle this matter before 2010. City Attorney,
Jed Deters stated this has been going on since 1987 and he will contact Mr.
Theisen very soon.
Johnny Sue Bauer, 4920 Justice Lane, stated she is confused as to why council
cannot discuss the Justice Lane matter. She stated the city public works
department had maintained in the past but who will maintain it now that Mr.
Scherder has passed away. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated there is threatened
litigation. Mrs. Bauer stated she has not retained an attorney at this point
and felt Mr. Deters should be able to discuss the matter with her.
Mr. Jed Deters stated the issue of whether or not Justice Lane is a city street
and whether or not Justice Lane should be maintained by the city is a legal
issue and he is working on it. Mrs. Bauer stated she has a letter dated 1989
from the city attorney telling her Justice Lane had been accepted by the city
so she could get a loan from her bank. Mayor Moriconi asked the length of
Justice Lane. Ms. Bauer stated it is 6/10ths of a mile.
Executive Session
Council Member Dupps made a motion to enter into Executive Session per KRS
61.810 with a second by Council Member Franzen. The motion carried.
Council Member Yeager moved with a second by Council Member Franzen to resume
the Caucus Meeting. The motion carried.
City Attorney, Jed Deters advised he would be meeting with Mr. Theisen and will
have an answer for council by the first meeting of 2004. Ms. Bauer asked if she
needed to retain an attorney. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated he did not feel
she needed an attorney and could contact Mr. Theisen.
OLD BUSINESS
New Street Requirements
Chief Shawn Butler stated the City Engineer, CDS has supplied information
regarding pavement issues for new streets. He stated the city is looking at an
8% to 10% increase to developers. Chief Butler asked City Attorney, Jed Deters
if it would be legal for a city to supersede Area Planning Subdivision
Regulations. City Attorney, Jed Deters he felt it could be done but not without
the process of changing the text. Mayor Moriconi stated he will be attending
the Mayors Group Meeting and will get feedback from them and bring back to
council.
Oby Drive-Traffic Control Options
Chief Shawn Butler stated a proposal was obtained from Haines Contracting in
the amount of $5,375.00 to install a 12’ by 24’ speed reduction strips. He
stated stop signs could not be installed due to various reasons. He stated he
needs council to direct him on what direction they would like to pursue.
Council Member Franzen stated some of the residents from Freedom Trail told her
they do not want speed bumps on Oby Drive because they do not see a problem
with speeders. Council Member Behler stated she feels an ordinance needs to be
passed regarding when and where speed bumps could be constructed and in the
meantime alternate between speed bumps and radar until the January 2004 Caucus
Meeting.
Mr. Chuck Kahrs thanked Chief Shawn Butler for helping and working on this
matter with him.
Crowe Road Update
Chief Shawn Butler stated in regards to Crowe Road he was able to speak to
Erlanger but was advised they would have to get back to him at a later date.
NEW BUSINESS
Storm Sewer Issues
Chief Shawn Butler stated CDS has viewed the videotape of the Production Drive
Storm Sewer and opined the cost to be $54,000.00. The process will have to be
bid out for acceptance. He stated there are several streets throughout the city
that need storm sewer repairs. He stated grants have been applied for but it
might be spring 2004 before an answer is received.
Chief Shawn Butler also advised council that the new restrooms at Memorial Park
are now under roof and are to open in early spring.
Council Member Yeager stated if the city is going to apply for a grant for
sidewalks, it must be in by February 1, 2004. Chief Shawn Butler stated that
would fall under the T21 grant and the only thing council has to do is decide
what section of sidewalk they want to install first but must realize it is
cheaper to install new sidewalks than to replace old sidewalks due to the old
sidewalks having to be torn out first. Council Member Behler asked if the city
is liable if someone falls on the sidewalks. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated
there is no “black and white” answer to that. Council Member Brinker stated
they would get more sidewalks for the dollar where there is no sidewalk and
make the downtown area a priority. Mayor Moriconi stated there would be some
money in the budget for sidewalks next year whether the city gets grants or
not.
Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Moriconi stated the city has approximately $50,000.00 in delinquent tax
collection. He stated he has someone that would like to solely collect these
taxes. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated he found in his research that only the
county sheriff or county attorney’s office could collect delinquent taxes. He
stated a city is allowed to levy and collect taxes why can’t they collect
delinquent taxes. He stated he would have a definite opinion by the January 5th
meeting. Council Member Yeager asked if the city could print the names in the
city newsletter. City Attorney, Jed Deters stated it could be done or find out
who the first mortgage holder is on the property at the Kenton County
Courthouse and if there is an escrow account, they will pay the taxes.
Miscellaneous Discussion
Council Member Behler stated in reading the Kentucky League of Cities
newsletter she learned there will be three key legislative issues affecting
cities. She asked Chief Shawn Butler if he could explain the Community
Investment Act. Chief Shawn Butler stated the Community Investment Act allows a
city to pass an Ordinance, levying a 3% tax on all restaurants in the city. He
stated 75% of the money raised would then come back to the city for the Parks
and Recreation Program and 25% of that would go to Northern Kentucky Convention
and Tourism Center.
Council Member Behler congratulated Patricia Taney, City Clerk on applying for
and receiving grant funds for the archival of permanent city records.
Chief Shawn Butler stated council has received a new Work Order Form to be used
when the public is requesting public services.
Mayor Moriconi stated he and Chief Shawn Butler have met with Mr. Richard
Harrison of the water district regarding Webster Road. He stated the grant that
was applied for did not meet the criteria nor did any area in the city due to
financial income. He stated it is a matter that is between the water district
and the property owner.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to adjourn the meeting. Council Member
Dupps so moved, with a second by Council Member Yeager. The motion was passed
with all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:30 p.m.
__________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
____________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant City Clerk
DECEMBER 15, 2003
City of Independence, Ky
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in Special
Session on Monday, December 15, 2003 at 7:00 p.m. in the Independence Senior
Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Chris Moriconi presiding in the Chair.
The roll was called and the following council members registered present: Donna
Yeager, Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Eric Dupps and Jim
Bushong. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
2.   Mayor Moriconi stated the purpose of the special meeting was for
discussion and possible action on the following agenda items:
∙   Discussion and possible action relating to a lease agreement between the
Senior/Community Center and the Senior Center Board of Directors.
∙   Discussion and possible action relating to a proposed ordinance approving a
map amendment for property located at 5298 Madison Pike.
Lease Agreement with Senior Board of Directors
3.   Mayor Moriconi stated the lease is being presented as the Senior Board
plans to establish and operate a bingo as a means to raise funds for
programming at the Center.
4.   Council Member Behler stated in Item 5 of the lease agreement it states
the lessee agrees to maintain liability insurance. City Clerk, Patricia Taney
stated the city carries insurance on the building. City Attorney, Jed Deters
stated both parties are to carry insurance. Council Member Yeager stated the
Senior Board does not carry liability insurance. Mayor Moriconi stated the
lease agreement states the lessee or lessor must have liability insurance.
Mayor Moriconi stated this lease is a formality to help the Senior Board obtain
a license to have bingo at the Senior Center.
7.   Council Member Franzen moved with a second by Council Member Dupps to
accept the lease agreement with amendments. Roll call was answered unanimously;
motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance for Map Amendment located at 5298 Madison Pike
10.   Mayor Moriconi stated this could be a new first reading based on a change
Mr. James Bertram, the developer is requesting for a zone change from R-1C to
NC subject to three (3) conditions.
∙   The location of the proposed access point is subject to approval of a
variance being granted by the Independence Board of Adjustments.
∙   Landscaping is provided in accordance with Section 9.17 of the zoning
ordinance.
∙   Two twenty-four foot wide access easements are provided on site to allow
for future interconnection with the property to the south, front and to the
rear of the property.
11.   Mayor Moriconi stated Northern Kentucky Area Planning did approve the
change without a separate road coming out to the property. They wanted to
connect it with the one they just did and have it all come out to the same
driveway. He stated the developer does not want to have all of the front
property as concrete, but would like to have a separate entrance with green
space.
12.   Mr. Bertram stated they have purchased the adjoining property and will
construct another two-story office building. He stated they went before area
planning and asked for a zone change because it is currently zoned residential.
He stated one of the requirements was the driveway space. He stated according
to their regulations it has to be 100 feet from end of curb return to the curb
return. He stated there is 100 feet from center of drive to center of drive and
he is talking about 15 feet roughly. He stated one of the conditions for the
approval would have to be going before the Board of Adjustments to get the 100-
foot driveway condition waived. He stated they would like to keep the green
space with the new building.
13.   City Attorney, Jed Deters advised council they would essentially be
overriding Northern Kentucky Area Planning recommendation and they would need a
majority vote to pass. Council Member Bushong asked if the state has approved
this recommendation. Mr. Bertram stated the curb cut would have to be approved
by the state. Mayor Moriconi stated council would actually be eliminating
condition number one of the ordinance because the curb cut is already there.
14.   Council Member Franzen moved with second by Council Member Yeager to
adopt the ordinance eliminating #1 under Section 1. Roll call was answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0. City Attorney, Jed Deters read the first
reading of the ordinance with amendments.
15.   Mayor Moriconi stated a second reading would take place at the January 5,
2004 council meeting.
Adjournment
21.   There being no further business on the special meeting agenda, Mayor
Moriconi asked for a motion to adjourn. Council Member Dupps so moved, with a
second by Council Member Behler. Motion carried unanimously and the meeting
adjourned.
            _________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant City Clerk
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2004 Minutes
January 5, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
January 5, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant of Grace Community
Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Mayor Moriconi welcomed new council member Tom Brinker and all those in
attendance.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi presented Mr. Rick Jordan, President of LSI Imaging, with a
plaque of recognition as the business of the month honoree and thanked him for
doing business in the city. Mr. Jordan stated that LSI has been it’s present
location since 1954 and that the company produces plastic products used by fast
food restaurants, as well as metal fabrication products for both exterior and
interior lighting for retailers. He stated the company has three shifts of
employees and while the economy saw a slow down in recent years the economy is
now turning around and business is picking up. Mr. Jordan stated he appreciated
the recognition and thanked Mayor Moriconi and council.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 1, 2003 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the December
1, 2003 regular council meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second
from Council Member Dupps. No amendments were noted. Roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 15, 2003 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the December
15, 2003 special council meeting. Council Member Behler so moved, with a second
from Council Member Bushong. Amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 15, 2003 Caucus Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the December
15, 2003 caucus council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second
from Council Member Dupps. No amendments were noted. Roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
6.   Chuck Berling, 1835 Beacon Hill, Fort Wright Ky., developer of the
Shadybrook Subdivision, addressed council regarding a proposal to donate a
parcel of land that the city could develop as a community park that would
include hiking trails and a soccer field. He stated that three subdivisions,
Shadybrook, Clover Ridge and Sycamore Creek will be linked and that a community
park maintained by the city could be an alternative to establishing a
homeowners association. He stated he is presenting this offer to the city prior
to submitting this plan to the Kenton County Planning Commission for approval
so that he would know if this donation of green space for a park would be
accepted by the city. Mr. Berling presented to council an exhibit of the
property to be considered.
7.   Council Member Dupps asked the time frame for this project. Mr. Berling
stated the preliminary plan would be submitted to the purview Commission in a
couple of months, but that the area that would be deeded to the city for a park
would not be ready until the year 2005. Council Member Behler asked the length
of the hiking trails. Mr. Berling replied about one-half mile but that it would
tie into the sidewalk system.
8.   Council Member Yeager asked if Mr. Berling would consider installing a
restroom facility. Mr. Berling stated it is an option but cautioned council
that a restroom facility would require more maintenance expenses for the city
and that the city would need to determine if they want this additional cost. He
advised that portable facilities could be utilized during the busy times of
year and that an enclosure could be constructed for aesthetic purposes. Mr.
Deters commented that the city’s liability might increase with the addition of
a restroom facility.
9.   Council Member Brinker commented that the city presently has several parks
and not sufficient funds to adequately maintain or improve them. Council Member
Franzen asked Mr. Berling what would be done with the land if the city did not
want to accept it for maintenance. Mr. Berling advised it may go as unused
space. He stated that homeowners associations typically would not maintain
sports fields that would be used by non-subdivision residents.
10.   Council Member Dupps suggested that Parks/Recreation review this proposal
presented by Mr. Berling and make a recommendation to council. Mayor Moriconi
asked if any of the council members were opposed to the proposal. Council
Member Dupps stated the property that would be accepted is the best he has
seen, as usually developers offers of green space are hillside areas of the
subdivision. Mayor Moriconi advised that Parks/Recreation would consider the
matter and provide a recommendation for council to act on at the February 2,
2004 council meeting.
11.   Sandy Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane, addressed council regarding her previous
request for the city to repair Justice Lane. She stated that her attorney has
called the city attorney several times to discuss this matter. She stated that
she feels the ordinance adopting Justice Lane for maintenance is valid and that
the city should provide the maintenance as the residents on the street are tax-
paying citizens. Mayor Moriconi advised Mrs. Woolum that discussion of Justice
Lane is not on the meeting agenda. Mrs. Woolum stated that Mr. Deters promised
he would have an answer regarding this street maintenance issue at this
meeting. Mr. Deters advised that he has spoken to Mrs. Woolum’s attorney
(’’Tim’ Theissen) once and that since this matter has become threatened
litigation against the city that it would not be discussed in an open forum.
12.   Johnny Sue Bauer, 4920 Justice Lane, also addressed council regarding the
maintenance issue of Justice Lane. She stated that she was told by the Mayor
and Mr. Deters they would have an answer for the Justice Lane residents at
tonight’s meeting. She stated she is concerned about snow removal during the
winter months and how the residents are supposed to deal with this. Mr. Deters
stated there has been a misunderstanding, as he did not convey there would be
resolution to this matter at tonight’s meeting. He reiterated that he has
spoken to Mrs. Woolum’s attorney and sent written correspondence on December
16, 2003. He advised no action has resulted and that he would not discuss this
matter in an open forum, considering one resident on Justice Lane has
threatened litigation. Ms. Bauer went on to say that she feels Mr. Deters has a
conflict of interest. Mr. Deters advised that his wife has an interest in
property on Justice Lane which is part of her deceased father’s estate. He
stated if he was operating in his wife’s interest he would want the city to
maintain the street, too; but he is not. Mayor Moriconi supported Mr. Deters
and assured Ms. Bauer that if there appears the resolution of this matter will
pose a conflict of interest that Mr. Deters will recuse himself. Council Member
Franzen requested an executive session as she had some questions. Council
Member Bushong requested the executive session take place at the end of the
regular meeting.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-02 - Approving a Map Amendment for 5298 Madison Pike -
(KCPC #1648R)
13.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-02 that would approve a map amendment for property located at 5298
Madison Pike from zone R-1C to NC. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O-02.
14.   Council Member Dupps moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-02, with second
by Council Member Bushong. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-01 - Providing Sidewalk Waivers with the Use of Liens
15.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-01 that would provide for sidewalk waivers with the use of a property
lien. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O-01.
16.   Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-01, with second
by Council Member Bushong. There was a brief discussion. Council Member Behler
asked if a resident would oppose the Building Inspector’s denial of a request
for a waiver, would the matter then come before the council. Mr. Deters stated
it would. Mr. Brinker expressed concern there could be a delay in the
construction and stated it may be necessary to clarify this for the property
owner. Council Member Franzen asked if a property owner would be able to obtain
a clear title with this lien attached. Mr. Deters stated the city would have
the authority to subordinate the lien for the transfer of property.
17.   Roll was called and the motion carried with five yes votes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Behler. Motion carried 5-1.
Renewal of City Attorney’s Contract
18.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their approval the professional
services agreement with the city attorney. He stated this would renew Mr.
Deters agreement to provide the city with legal counsel.
19.   Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve the renewal of Mr. Deters
Agreement with the city, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report
20.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Chief Butler was absent due to illness and
that Assistant Chief Dave Nichols would give the report. Assistant Chief
Nichols advised that during the month of December 2003 the police department
responded to 1,692 calls for service, made 34 physical arrests and issued 133
state citations.
21.   He also reported that the annual Christmas Walk and Tour was well
attended and that the construction of the restroom facility in Memorial Park
will be complete by spring 2004.
22.   Assistant Chief Nichols advised that the street repairs for the Fleming
Drive will be put out to bid with the bids being submitted to the city by
March. He also wanted to remind the citizens that if two inches of snow falls
that all vehicles must be moved from the roadway for snow removal by the Public
Works Department.
City Attorney’s Report on the Issue of Delinquent Property Taxes
23.   Mr. Deters directed council’s attention to the memo he drafted regarding
his research of the collection process of delinquent property taxes. He stated
that the most efficient thing to do would be to amend the current ordinance
that would add a reasonable attorney fee to the cost of collection of the tax
bill. Or the city could initiate the process used by the county by creating a
delinquent certificate that could be sold at auction. Council Member Bushong
suggested the council leave it at the current $300 attorney collection fee. Mr.
Deters stated that the ordinance that established the $300 attorney collection
fee was adopted in 1978 and that fee would not begin to cover the cost of a
foreclosure suit today. He advised that it currently costs over $200 just for
filing and service fees. Council Member Bushong suggested that an outside
organization could collect the back taxes for a fee. Mr. Deters stated this is
not an option for the city unless the ordinance is amended; in addition any
outside service would need to be approved by the Department of Revenue. Council
Member Bushong stated he did not agree.
24.   Council Member Yeager asked what fees are associated with collecting the
delinquent taxes using the same process as the county. Mr. Deters stated he did
not know. Council Member Franzen commented that she, as well as most residents
pay their taxes, and feels others should pay too. Council Member Bushong stated
he is open to hiring an outside source to collect the back taxes. Council
Member Brinker concurred, but suggested we check with other cities that use
outside sources to collect this revenue. Council Member Yeager stated she would
also like information regarding the county’s process of collection.
Executive Order No. 2004-EO-01 - Establishing the Citizens Budget & Economic
Development Committee
25.   Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2004-EO-01 establishing the
criteria for the Citizens Budget & Economic Development Committee and
appointing seven citizen members to the committee. Mayor Moriconi advised that
twenty candidates submitted a letter of interest to serve on this committee,
but he felt the make up of the committee should be a realistic number of
members.
26.   Council Member Yeager asked when the committee would meet. Mayor Moriconi
stated the committee would have the freedom and flexibility to decide of
meeting dates. He stated the function of the committee would be to make
recommendations and suggestions to the mayor and council regarding city
finances and the economic growth of the city. He stated the committee would
serve as an advisory panel with the committee chairman presenting the
committee’s recommendations for action at city caucus meetings.
27.   Council Member Dupps asked about the term limit of the committee. Mayor
Moriconi advised he would review the progression of the committee at six
months, but that ultimately he was looking at one year appointments. Mr. Deters
advised it was not necessary to indicate the terms of the committee members in
the executive order. Council Member Yeager commented that she felt bad that not
more than seven people were appointed to the committee as there were twenty
great candidates. Mayor Moriconi agreed but feels the seven citizens he has
selected is a good mix of the city’s residents and that is essential that the
group be a manageable size. He announced the seven citizens he has selected to
serve on this committee: Cindy Dobias, Darrel Herald, Jim Kudera, Michael
Little, Dave Millward, Tom Nicodemus and Larry Staverman. Mayor Moriconi read
Executive Order No. 2004-EO-01 and advised the committee would have its first
meeting in January. In closing, he thanked all who had volunteered to serve on
the committee.
Executive Order No. 2004-EO-02 - Appointing the City Clerk as the City’s ABC
Administrator
28.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council and read Executive Order No. 2004-EO-
02 appointing City Clerk, Patricia Taney as the city’s ABC Administrator.
Cancellation of the January 19, 2004 Caucus Meeting
29.   Mayor Moriconi advised he had a scheduling conflict and would like to
cancel the January 19, 2004 caucus meeting. Council Member Dupps made a motion
to cancel the January caucus meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. No
roll called; motion carried with all ayes.
Executive Session
30.   There being no further business, Mayor Moriconi requested an executive
session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation.
Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by Council Member Dupps. Motion
carried with all ayes.
31.   When the executive session ended, Council Member Yeager moved to
reconvene the regular session with second by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried with all ayes.
32.   Mayor Moriconi announced there will be no action resulting from the
executive session.
Adjournment
33.   Upon motion by Council Member Bushong and second by Council Member
Franzen the meeting was adjourned at 8:27 p.m.
                                                                        ________________________________
                                                                        Christian
J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 2, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
February 2, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council member Jim Bushong gave the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen
and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the Minutes of the January 5, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January
5, 2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second
from Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted. Roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 6-0 to accept the minutes as presented.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
3.   Johnny Sue Bauer, 4920 Justice Lane, requested to reserve her comments
until the discussion is held on the Justice Lane matter on the agenda.
4.   Sandy Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane also requested permission to service her
comment until the discussion is held on the Justice Lane matter.
5.   Don Nienabor, 66 McCullum Road, addressed council regarding his concern
that the Citizens Finance and Economic Development Committee meetings would not
be open to the public. He stated that he has reviewed the K.R.S. and doesn’t
see where these committee meetings would be exempt from the open meetings law
6.   Mr. Nienabor also expressed concern that if a resident was registered to
vote as an independent that he would be unable to vote for the city council
candidates in the primary election to be held in May. Council Member Behler
commented that this once happened to her, but since the council race in
Independence is non-partisan and that any citizens registered as independents
should be able to vote in the primary election.
7.   Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Nienabor that the Citizen Budget & Economic
Development Committee is not requested to be open to the public. He stated that
the chairman of that committee will present the recommendations of the
committee to council at the monthly caucus meetings. Mayor Moriconi compared
this committee to the Garden Club and commented that the committee will have
the freedom to open the meetings to the public or not. Council Member Yeager
commented that she felt the meetings should be open to the public. Mayor
Moriconi disagreed and reiterated that he felt this would be the decision of
the committee.
OLD BUSINESS
Maintenance of Justice Lane
8.   Mayor Moriconi advised that Mr. Tim Theissen was present on behalf of
Sandy Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane. Mr. Jed Deters, City Attorney, advised Mr.
Theissen that he has advised council that the matter of Justice Lane
maintenance should not be discussed or debated in an open forum since it has
become threatened litigation. Mr. Theissen disagreed with Mr. Deters and stated
he felt it would be inappropriate not to discuss this matter in open session.
Mr. Deters reiterated that he has instructed the council not to discuss this.
9.   Mr. Theissen explained that according to records Justice Lane was
initially created as an easement to serve one house and currently there are
nine residents that access the road. He stated that it was not built to meet
the current subdivision standards. Mr. Theissen stated that Mrs. Woolum’s house
is the most recent development on the street and explained that in 1987 when
Mrs. Woolum was building her house she was having trouble conveying that lot
because there was no public road that would serve her property, therefore she
asked the city council to help her. He stated the city council then voted to
make Justice Lane a street and passed the ordinance on an emergency basis to
meet the deadline of Mrs. Woolum’s loan closing.
10.   Mr. Theissen stated Justice Lane is recognized as a public street and
that the city has, on a couple of occasions, provided some maintenance. He
stated that a street sign identifies it and there is no guard at the entrance.
Mr. Theissen stated that when a plat was conveyed a strip was dedicated
indicating additional action that it is recognized as a city street. He
commented that Mr. Bobby Scherder, another property owner on Justice Lane had
made it difficult for the city’s Public Works Department employees to come onto
the property to provide maintenance.
11.   He advised that Mrs. Woolum has requested the city since October/November
2003 to provide maintenance and since then council has begun discussions to
repeal Ordinance No. 1-11-87. Mr. Theissen insisted that Ordinance No. 1-11-87
is a valid ordinance and while this may be a complicated issue as to whether or
not it met the requirements to be declared an emergency, the fact that the
street has been publicly used for a period of time would be reason that the
city can assume that it is a publicly dedicated street. In addition, Mr.
Theissen argued there has been no legal challenge over the years. He stated
there is a procedure to follow for a street to be closed to the public, such as
a paper street or an undeveloped street.
12.   Mr. Theissen objected to Mr. Deters proposed procedure to repeal
Ordinance No. 1-11-87 saying that it was an inappropriate course of action to
repeal an ordinance that adopted a public street. He stated there is a separate
process for doing that.
13.   Mr. Theissen asserted that the residents on Justice Lane are taxpayers
that are asking that a service be provided for their tax dollar. He stated that
council should not take this as a threat of litigation, moreover a plea; but
when on to say that this issue is so important to Mrs. Woolum that she feels
duty bound to ask the court system to judge what she feels is inappropriate
action by the city. He stated that repealing Ordinance No. 1-11-87 could
adversely devalue Mrs. Woolum’s property and hinder subdividing her land. He
stated that other residents of Justice Lane would be party to the lawsuit
against the city including Bobby Scherder’s estate, which would then cause Mr.
Deters to have a conflict of interest, placing the city in the situation of
hiring another attorney to litigate this matter. Mr. Theissen suggested that
council seek independent legal advice, other than Mr. Deters before getting
into a lawsuit.
14.   Council Member Brinker stated that he does not feel that silence by the
council members is conveying the proper message to the residents. He stated he
has remained quiet about this matter but he wanted the residents to know that
he is trying to do what is right for the city. He stated he wanted the
residents to know that council is in a difficult situation and is very
concerned and he will support a speedy resolution to this matter. Council
Members Franzen and Yeager concurred with Council Member Brinker.
15.   Johnny Sue Bauer, 4920 Justice Lane, corrected Mr. Theissen in that her
parents built a house on Justice Lane in 1997 making it the most recent
development, which was approved by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission. Mr. Deters advised that property has adequate frontage on
Independence Road and is not dependent on Justice Lane. Ms. Bauer questioned
the urgency to repeal Ordinance No. 1-11-87 now. She urged council to consider
the facts and make a thorough evaluation before taking any drastic action.
Council Member Franzen advised Ms. Bauer there would be no vote taken on the
first reading of the proposed ordinance to repeal Ordinance No. 1-11-87.
16.   Mrs. Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane, made an appeal to council to postpone the
first reading of the proposed ordinance until council had adequate time to
review the information provided by Mr. Theissen. She stated she would like to
assist council in clearly understanding the issue at hand and how valuable
Ordinance No. 1-11-87 is to the residents on Justice Lane. She stated that the
threat of litigation would disappear if the city would uphold Ordinance No. 1-
11-87 and agree to maintain Justice Lane.
Executive Session
17.   Council Member Yeager moved to go into an Executive Session in accordance
with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss threatened litigation, seconded by Council
Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
18.   Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with al ayes.
Continuation of the Discussion of the Maintenance of Justice Lane
19.   Mr. Deters advised that it was determined during the executive session
that since there is the appearance that he may have a conflict of interest,
given that his wife is heir to property located on Justice Lane, the city
council will consult with separate counsel. He stated he has recommended
attorney Ed Lanter to the council and will ask him to be present at the
February caucus meeting, but will advise the matter should be discussed in an
Executive Session at that meeting.
20.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the caucus meeting will be held on the fourth
Monday, February 23, 2004 due to President’s Day on the third Monday which is
the normal meeting day for the caucus meeting.
21.   Council Member Bushong questioned Mr. Theissen that he too may have a
conflict of interest in this matter since he was on the Planning Commission in
1987 when Mrs. Woolum’s plat was approved. Mr. Theissen advised that he did not
join the Planning Commission until February of 1990 and stated that he did not
feel this was an issue since it did not affect the Planning Commission. Council
Member Bushong suggested that as this issue progresses it might become a
conflict. Mr. Theissen reiterated that he did not feel this would become a
conflicted issue for him. Mr. Deters suggested that Mrs. Woolum could
ultimately subdivide her property for future development purposes. Mr. Theissen
stated that if that should happen, then he would withdraw from the case. Mrs.
Woolum stated she wants Justice Lane to be a city maintained street as no one
can propose future development of the land unless it is a city street. Mr.
Deters stated that the street is only forty feet wide, which is not sufficient
for future development. Mr. Theissen countered that forty feet is sufficient
width for it to be a public street and that if future development was approved
the street could be constructed to fifty feet wide which would bring it up to
regulations to meet current building codes. He stated that fifty feet could
then provide on-street parking.
22.   Council Member Franzen stated that Ordinance 1-11-87 states the
maintenance purposes, as the street presently exists. She asked what kind of
maintenance Mrs. Woolum was expecting from the city. Mrs. Woolum stated the
street is constructed of gravel, but the city should look further into
providing practical maintenance. Ms. Bauer commented that she is not expecting
the city to provide security lighting by installing lampposts, but would like
the street to be smooth and level. Mr. Theissen stated the 1987 ordinance meant
the residents didn’t have to improve the condition of the street to get the
city to take over the maintenance, but at present the street desperately needs
gravel. Ms. Bauer stated that she expects the city to do more than just install
gravel as the gravel just runs into the gully.
23.   Mayor Moriconi asked the length of the road. Mrs. Woolum stated Justice
Lane is 7/10 of a mile long.
24.   Mr. Theissen stated that they appreciated being given the opportunity to
be heard by council with their concerns. Mayor Moriconi advised there would be
a first reading of the proposed ordinance to repeal Ordinance No. 1-11-87, but
there would not be a vote until the ordinance was presented for a second
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Repealing Ordinance No. 1-11-87 Regarding the Maintenance
of Justice Lane – 1st Reading
25.   Upon motion by Council Member Behler and second by Council Member Dupps
there was a first reading of a proposed ordinance that would repeal Ordinance
No. 1-11-87 that accepted Justice Lane as a city maintained street for the
purposes of meeting a deadline for a real estate closing. City Attorney, Jed
Deters read the proposed ordinance in its entirety.
NEW BUSINESS
Discussion Regarding Park Shelter Rentals
26.   Council Member Yeager introduced a suggestion regarding the park shelter
rental fees. She stated that a rental fee for the shelter at Memorial Park has
not been established and that the rental fee for the shelters at Sterling
Staggs Park needs to be increased. She proposed adopting a fee schedule similar
to that of the Kenton County Parks. She stated they have a rain or shine rental
fee of $35.00 excluding a refund with rental fee for larger special events at
$100.00. Council Member Franzen suggested that the elimination of a deposit fee
could cut down on paper work. Mr. Deters advised the fee schedule should be
adopted by ordinance. Chief Butler stated there would not be a deposit held for
clean up, just a flat fee for the rental of the shelter and the city would
clean up after each event. He stated if the city eliminates the deposit fee
there will be no incentive by the resident to clean up the shelter area.
Council Member Bushong asked if Mr. Deters would draft an ordinance. Mr. Deters
reiterated the fees should be established by ordinance and he would review the
way they are currently set up.
27.   Council Member Bushong made a motion to establish a shelter rental fee of
$35.00 per shelter at Sterling Staggs park and a $50.00 shelter fee for
Memorial Park. Mr. Deters stated he would draft an ordinance for council’s
review at the caucus meeting. Council Member Yeager stated she would like the
rental fee for the larger events, such as weddings to be higher than $50.00.
Mayor Moriconi suggested the rental contracts be reviewed by Mr. Deters. Roll
call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Discussion Regarding Development of a Park in the Shadybrook Subdivision
28.   Mayor Moriconi reported that Council Member Yeager and Chief Butler met
with the developer of the Shadybrook Subdivision regarding a proposal to
develop a park area complete with ball fields and turn it over to the city.
29.   Chief Butler stated that they met with Mr. Berling regarding the
development and he has done some preliminary operational cost estimates, which
the city would incur, should council decide to accept this park area for city
ownership and maintenance. He advised his estimate includes the expense to mow,
provide electricity, insurance coverage, etc. and would be around $8,000 to
$10,000 annually. He stated that Mr. Berling proposes the development of a ball
field, soccer field, walking trails and parking lot.
30.   Council Member Bushong asked about a restroom facility for a park of this
size. Chief Butler stated that Mr. Berling would attend the next caucus meeting
to discuss development details, such as a restroom facility, and irrigation for
the soccer field. Council Member Behler expressed concern that a restroom
facility and irrigation of the soccer field would just increase the annual
operational expenses. Chief Butler stated that he felt a restroom would be an
essential facility for a park with ball fields. Council Member Brinker asked
that Chief Butler provide a written cost estimate for the operation of this
proposed park before the caucus meeting. Chief Butler stated this park would
not have playground equipment, just ball fields, walking trail and parking lot.
Mayor Moriconi advised that this matter would be discussed further at the
caucus meeting. Chief Butler stated there is no rush to act on this matter.
Discussion Regarding HB 413
31.   Chief Butler reported that the Committee Safety Act introduced HB 413
last week. He advised that if this bill were passed it would provide a
significant amount of revenue for the city. He stated that if this bill were
passed that the city would receive $20 on all criminal convictions, which he
estimates could amount to $180,000 annually for the city, helping to offset
current expenses. He advised that the city currently receives no portion of
revenue from the state for writing state citations while the city bears all the
associated expenses. He encouraged everyone to contact the state
representatives and urge them to support this bill. He stated that council may
also want to take an official position by adopting a Resolution in support of
this bill. Council Member Behler advised it was introduced in the House of
Representatives and will go before the Senate next.
Update on Bids to be Let
32.   Chief Butler advised that the bids for the repairs on Fleming Drive have
been let out, and that the bids for the computers and audio-visual equipment
for the Municipal Center will be released soon.
Update on Collection of Delinquent Taxes
33.   Mayor Moriconi directed council’s attention to the report in the council
packets outlining the procedures for collecting delinquent property taxes in
other local cities as well as the county. Council Member Yeager stated she
favors the collection procedure used by the county. Council Member Behler asked
if the county’s procedure is mandated by state statute. Mr. Deters stated that
it is but felt the city could probably establish a similar system for the
collection of delinquent property taxes. He stated he would check into it and
report back at the next caucus meeting.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order No. 2004-EO-03 – Appointing Richard Deters to a Second Term on
the Board of Ethics/Code Enforcement Board
34.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council and read Executive Order No. 2004-EO-
03 re-appointing Richard Deters to a second term on the Board of Ethics/Code
Enforcement Board.
Presentation to Chief Shawn Butler a Senate Citation from Senator Thayer
35.   Mayor Moriconi read a Senate Citation from Senator Damon Thayer as
presented to Chief Butler in acknowledgement of his service to the city.
Discussion Regarding the Possible Sale of the Park and Ride Municipal Parking
Lot
36.   Mayor Moriconi reported that he has been approached by a person
interested in purchasing the Park and Ride lot for the purpose of constructing
an office building. Council Member Yeager stated that she objected to selling
this property as it will be the only land the city will own in the downtown
area after the move to the new Municipal Center and the sale of the current
Administration Building. She stated the city worked hard to get this parking
lot for the TANK bus riders. Mayor Moriconi stated that if council decides they
would like to declare the lot as surplus property, then Chief Butler would meet
with TANK to discuss another location for a park and ride lot. Mr. Deters
suggested that council first have the property appraised before declaring it
surplus property. He advised after it is declared surplus property the city
would take bids for the sale. Council Member Yeager expressed concern regarding
relocation of the park and ride. Mayor Moriconi stated he has had preliminary
discussions with the management of the Towne Center who seemed receptive to the
idea of relocating the park and ride lot at the Towne Center. Council Member
Yeager stated that the Towne Center is not located in the downtown area of
Independence and expressed concern for the downtown businesses as well as the
courthouse, whose patrons use the park and ride lot. Council Member Brinker
concurred with Council Member Yeager and suggested getting information from
TANK about rider ship to determine the use of the lot. He stated he would not
want to relocate the lot until an alternate plan was in place. Council Member
Bushong asked where TANK would stop. Mayor Moriconi advised it would run down
Route 17 to Declaration. Chief Butler advised the current park and ride lot is
at capacity and the Towne Center would be able to offer more parking spaces.
Council Member Bushong asked if the city would have to lease space for the park
and ride lot from the Towne Center. Mayor Moriconi stated that he has spoken to
Mr. Charlie Deters about relocating the park and ride lot at the Towne Center
and Mr. Deters did not take issue with the arrangement as it has the potential
of providing more traffic to the businesses at the Center. Council Member
Yeager reiterated that the downtown area needs more parking for the business in
that area of the city. Mayor Moriconi stated that the person interested in
developing the land has stated that there should be no problem for patrons of
Pasquales to park there after regular business hours. Council Member Yeager
also expressed concern about having a location for the lighting of the
Christmas tree for the annual Christmas Walk & Tour if the city does not own
land in the downtown area. Council Member Bushong commented that selling the
park and ride lot would be potential income for the city and agreed that the
city should have the property appraised.
37.   Council Member Bushong made a motion to have the Park and Ride lot
appraised, seconded by Council Member Behler. Council Member Yeager advised
that when the city approached TANK with the plan to construct a park and ride
lot for bus riders in Independence TANK had wanted the city to enter into a 20-
year lease and she was able to talk them out of a lease providing they supply a
bus shelter and signage. Roll call was answered with three yeas by Council
Members Bushong, Behler and Brinker and three nays by Council Members Yeager,
Dupps and Franzen. Mayor Moriconi broke the tie by casting a yea vote. Motion
carried 4-3 in favor.
Condemnation of Property Located at 5220 Belle Drive
38.   Council Member Behler asked for an update on the procedures the city
would be using to condemn blighted property, more specifically 5220 Belle
Drive. Mr. Deters explained the process, and advised council they should take
into consideration, when condemning a property, the possibility that city money
expended to demolish blighted private property might not be recouped. Mayor
Moriconi asked Chief Butler if the Public Works employees could take down this
property if the city condemns it. Chief Butler stated he spoke to Jeff Smith
who advises they could probably handle this. Mr. Deters advised that the city
still has a process they must follow before sending city employees onto private
property and removing the blighted structure. Council Member Behler requested
the city begin the necessary process to condemn this property and remove the
rundown building.
39.   Council Member Franzen made a motion to begin the process necessary to
condemn and raze the house located at 5220 Belle Drive. No roll call; motion
carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
40.   There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member
Franzen and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:45 p.m.
_____________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky.
February 23, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
23, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Christian J. Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Mary Pat Behler, Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager answered roll
call. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Tom & Sharon Creamer, 10736 Chinkapin Circle, addressed council with their
request to purchase city owned land that abuts their property on Chinkapin
Circle in the Glenhurst Subdivision. They proposed the city sell them a small
triangular shaped parcel that is part of the Glenhurst Park. Mr. Creamer stated
that the area is basically unusable to the city and he is having his property
surveyed as groundwork before he installs a fence and stated he was willing to
pay to have the city owned section surveyed as well if the city would agree to
sell him the piece. He invited the city to inspect the area.
Mayor Moriconi advised the Creamer’s that the land was donated to the city for
recreational green space and that the city would need to research the deed to
see if there were any restrictions. Mr. Deters concurred and added that the
city could not selectively sell the property, and explained the city is
required to advertise for sealed bids so that anyone that may also be
interested would have the same opportunity. Mayor Moriconi stated the city
would review the matter over the next couple of weeks and then contact the
Creamer’s with the findings.
Betty Eichelberger, 6258 Taylor Mill Road, addressed council with a concern she
has with the property located at 6290 Taylor Mill Road. She stated that the
owner had come before the city recently with a proposal to construct self-
storage units on the property. She advised that the land is being cleared and
asked if the city had approved this type of development. Mr. Deters stated
there is no proposal pending before the city council and if the property owner
submits a development plan to the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission,
the Commission would then notify the city.
JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, conveyed that there was a toll free number
available to the citizens of the state wherein they could leave comments for
the representatives regarding pending legislation. She encouraged everyone to
use this toll free number to convey support for HB 413 relating to a law
enforcement fee, which would be revenue for the city. Chief Butler advised that
there have been some changes to HB 413, which will decrease the initial amount
of revenue he reported to council, which was approximately $180,000. He stated
the revenue expected now will be around $60,000, which is more base court
revenue than the city is currently receiving.
Mrs. Cobble asked Mayor Moriconi if he would be scheduling a Budget Summit
soon. Mayor Moriconi stated that he might not hold a Budget Summit this year.
He explained that he would be working with the Police Chief and the City Clerk
to establish the preliminary budget figures. In addition, he stated that he did
not feel a Budget Summit would be needed due to the establishment of the
Citizens Budget and Economic Development Committee who would be submitting
their budget recommendations to the council.
NEW BUSINESS
Presentation of a Future Senior Retirement Village by Kudera Development LLC
Jerry Dusing, legal counsel for Jim Kudera introduced himself and P.J. Hannon,
the architect of the development. Mr. Dusing stated that Mr. Kudera is planning
to develop a retirement village on the rear section of his property at the end
of McMillan Road. He stated that the development would be on nine acres, eight
of which are within the city limits and one acre, which is presently in
unincorporated county. He stated that they would request annexation for the one
acre coupled with a zone change request for the entire acreage. Mr. Dusing
advised that this development is being planned around the future road
improvements to State Route 17, which will provide direct access to the
retirement village and that the project would not proceed until such time the
road improvements move forward. He stated the village would consist of six
multifamily buildings, each providing thirteen units and three to four single
story structures with attached garages and additional parking. He stated that
two years of research has gone into the planning of this development, which
will be independent living restricted to those aged fifty-five and up. Mr.
Dusing advised that this development is consistent with the current countywide
Comprehensive Plan and is a type of housing that is needed in Independence. He
stated there would be quite a demand for independent living units with the
“baby boomers” approaching retirement age. Mr. Dusing assured council that this
development would not become government assisted housing, as it will be a “for
profit” privately owned community. He stated the community will be a unique
concept to Northern Kentucky and while it will be independent living, it will
include community activities and provide some basic services.
Mr. Deters advised Mr. Dusing that it would be inappropriate for the council
members to voice their comments before the recommendation from the Kenton
County Planning Commission formally comes before them, as they are the final
arbiters of a proposed zone change. Mr. Dusing replied that they were making
this presentation to the council as a courtesy before they proceed with
submitting the application of a development plan to the Planning Commission.
Council Member Franzen asked if the city would have to decide on the annexation
request first. Mr. Dusing advised that they would request annexation of the one
acre at the same time they request a zone change. Mr. Deters explained that it
would be an annexation by consent. Council Member Behler asked the number of
total units. Mr. Dusing replied 92 units would equal 9.4 units per net acres.
Council Member Yeager commented that she has heard many requests for this type
of housing from the senior members that frequent the Independence Senior
Center.
Williams Woods Subdivision Green Space
Bob Schroeder, representative for Williams Woods subdivision development
addressed council with a proposal to give the city a four-acre parcel of land
located in the Williams Woods Subdivision. Council Member Behler reported that
she inspected the area and voiced concerns with a small retention pond that she
noticed. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Schroeder what would be done with the parcel
if the city did not want to accept it. Mr. Schroeder advised they would
increase the size of the individual lots. Council Member Franzen stated she was
not in favor of accepting this property, considered it a liability and felt the
land should be used to increase the size of the lots. Council Member Bushong
stated he was not in favor of accepting the land. Council Member Yeager
commented that she appreciated their offer, but since the property would abut
property owners who would assume the property was theirs, that the city should
probably not accept it. Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Schroeder that the council
comments were not in favor of accepting this land, but thanked him for the
offer.
Discussion Regarding Shadybrook Park
Mr. Chuck Berling addressed council and submitted a site plan for their
inspection of the proposed park in the Shadybrook Subdivision. Mr. Berling
stated the park would be for active recreation, having a soccer field and a
baseball field, walking trail and fifty-nine parking spaces. He advised the
park area sits on a separate plateau, with the parking lot separate from the
subdivision. He reported that they would install a water line tap so the city
would have the capability of adding a restroom facility in the future. Chief
Butler stated that he has estimated that it will cost the city $10,000 per year
to operate this park, mainly the expense of utilities and mowing the land.
Council Member Behler asked which road would access the park. Mr. Berling
stated it could be accessed from three directions, which would include Senour
Road, Fowler Creek Road and Route 16. Mayor Moriconi stated that this park
would tie three residential developments together. Mr. Berling reported that
the land would be graded this year with utility lines being installed and then
sow seed and lay straw the following year. He advised that sometime in the year
2005 the property would be ready to deed over to the city. Council Member Dupps
asked if the Clover Ridge subdivision ever developed the ball fields that were
planned for the community. Council Member Yeager stated the fields were never
built. Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Berling if they would construct a
restroom facility. He stated they would only supply the rough service lines.
Chief Butler stated he has discussed with Mr. Berling the irrigation of the
ball fields and went on to introduce the idea of establishing fees of the
sports leagues similar to those of the Kenton County Parks and Recreation
Department to help the city offset the expenses of maintaining the fields. He
urged the city to install a restroom facility in this park due to the large
number of people that would be using this park. Council Member Behler stated
that she would be more favorable of accepting this proposed park if she knew it
would generate the operational fees for the upkeep. Council Member Franzen
stated that the Northern Kentucky Little League and the Independence Soccer
Club may consider contributing to the operational fees. Chief Butler stated
these organizations want exclusive use for their contribution. Council Member
Yeager commented that other cities have similar type of ‘pay to play’ programs.
Council Member Behler asked Chief Butler if he had law enforcement concerns
with the location of the proposed park. Chief Butler stated that it is in a
remote area and suggested that security lighting be installed, especially in
the parking area. Council Member Franzen stated that she did not think that
fifty-nine parking spaces would be adequate for both fields when games are
being played simultaneously. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Berling if they could
enlarge the parking lot. Mr. Berling stated it was a possibility and would look
into it.
Mr. Berling stated that they felt that the city would benefit from a park in
this area but if the city did not want the land for a proposed park, that they
would form a homeowners association. Council Member Brinker stated that he
would like the city to explore charging the teams a usage fee. Mr. Berling
reminded council that they would not be taking on the expense of this park
until late 2005. Council Member Yeager commented that the park probably
wouldn’t be ready for ball games until early 2006. Council Member Dupps
wondered if the Citizens Budget Committee should look into this matter. Mayor
Moriconi felt that was not necessary. Council Member Franzen stated that adding
a restroom facility should be seriously addressed, as it will be an enticement
to the ball teams.
Mr. Berling stated that this development has already received approval from the
Planning Commission, so council’s decision will not hold up the construction.
Council Member Bushong commented that he feels that restrooms are a more
important amenity than a shelter. Council Member Franzen suggested contacting
the Northern Kentucky sports teams to discuss agreements for exclusive use of
the fields. She suggested that Independence should propose user fees that would
be competitive with fees charged by other cities.
Council Member Dupps asked Chief Butler to provide council with a breakdown of
the projected expenses that will be associated with this park. Chief Butler
read from his list. Council Member Behler suggested he would need to increase
his estimate by 6% considering the year 2006 cost factor.
Discussion Regarding the Maintenance of Justice Lane
Mr. Deters advised council that he has invited Ed Lanter, a colleague of his,
who has agreed to represent the city in the matter of Justice Lane. He
suggested that council enter into an executive session to discuss the matter
with Mr. Lanter.
Executive Session
At 8:02 p.m. Council Member Dupps moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing pending
litigation. The motion was seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried
with all ayes.
At 8:21 p.m. Council Member Brinker made a motion to reconvene the regular
session of the meeting; seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with
all ayes.
Resume Discussion Regarding the Maintenance of Justice Lane
Mayor Moriconi announced that Ed Lanter would provide legal counsel for the
city in the matter of the maintenance of Justice Lane. Mr. Lanter explained to
the members of the audience that reside on Justice Lane that he has been
contracted to represent the city regarding the validity of Ordinance No. 1-11-
87. He stated he would review the ordinance and personally meet with the
Justice Lane property owners and/or their legal representative in an effort to
resolve this matter in an amicable manner. He advised council that he would
report back in a few weeks.
Traffic Speed Hump Program
Mayor Moriconi thanked Council Member Bushong and Chief Butler for preparing a
thorough report to establish a traffic speed hump program defining speed bumps,
lumps and humps. He suggested that council might want to adopt this program by
ordinance. Council Member Yeager asked if this program was going to help the
residents on Oby Drive. Chief Butler stated they would need to go through the
process as outlined in the program and suggested the city could install
temporary white striping with the word ‘slow’ on Oby Drive.
Mr. Deters concurred with Mayor Moriconi and advised that this program should
be adopted by ordinance. Council Member Brinker suggested the city make this
document available to the citizens. Chief Butler suggested posting it on the
website as this will be the guideline the city will use when residents request
this type of traffic control devise. Mr. Deters advised he could draft an
ordinance for a first reading at the March 1, 2004 meeting next week.
Bids Received for the Fleming Drive Repairs
Mayor Moriconi advised the city receive sealed bids on February 6, 2004 for the
Fleming Drive repairs. He directed council to the correspondence from City
Engineer, Mark Brueggemann of CDS Engineers who is recommending the city award
the contract to the low bidder, Hendy, Inc. in the amount of $160,984.00. Mayor
Moriconi stated the bid received is lower than the amount that was anticipated.
Council Member Behler asked if the city engineer feels comfortable that Hendy
would provide satisfactory work. Mayor Moriconi replied yes. He stated that
formal award of this contract would be on the agenda for next Monday’s regular
meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to the Code Enforcement Board & Amending
Ordinance No. 1999-O-02
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would amend the
current ordinance relating to the Code Enforcement Board. He stated this would
be presented for a first reading at the March 1st regular meeting of council.
Mr. Deters advised council that this amendment was the result of a meeting with
the Zoning Administrator, Building Inspector and City Clerk. He stated the
Zoning Administrator has been having some difficulty in getting enforcement
assistance from the county attorney’s office as the current ordinance lacks the
necessary enforcement language, which this amendment will provide.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Park Shelter Rental Fees & Amending Ordinance
No. 1998-O-05
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would amend the
current ordinance relating to the reservation of the park shelters and the
associated fees. Attached to the ordinance are the application forms for the
shelter permits. Council Member Yeager commented the fee schedule needed to be
revised, as the maintenance of the parks is a lot of work and the city needed
to discontinue the practice of a refundable $15.00 fee. Mayor Moriconi asked if
the applicant’s social security number should be included on the form. Mr.
Deters stated that name and address should be adequate. There was a brief
discussion and it was decided to add a line for the applicant to provide his/
her driver’s license number. Mayor Moriconi stated this ordinance would be
presented for a first reading at the March 1st regular meeting.
Report on Establishing a Procedure for the Collection of Delinquent Taxes
Mr. Deters reported that in order for the city to have the county collect it’s
delinquent taxes the county would have to be in charge of the billing and
collection of the city’s taxes, similar to the Independence Fire District,
Kenton County Library, etc. He stated this might reduce delinquent bills, as
the county does not accept partial payments. Mr. Deters also stated that
another option would be to change the language of the current ordinance that
would provide for a ‘reasonable fee’ for city attorney collection. He stated
the current ordinance only provides a flat fee of $300.00, which by today’s
standards does not begin to cover the cost of foreclosure, filing fees and
other associated attorney expenses. Mayor Moriconi asked what the county fee
was. Mr. Deters stated the county charges 4%. Council Member Brinker asked if
the county should collect the city property taxes. Mr. Deters suggested the
city might want to take the most economical route. Chief Butler commented that
the county might only be able to recoup their costs for the service. Council
Member Franzen suggested the city amend the ordinance in the meantime.
Discussion Regarding the Renewal of the Contract with Rumpke for Trash
Collection
Mayor Moriconi reported to council that the city’s two-year contract with
Rumpke was due to expire on June 30, 2004. He stated that the term of the
contract provides the option for four two-year extension periods upon mutual
agreement of both parties. He advised the rates for the next two-year extension
would increase by .42 cents per month making that an annual increase of $5.04
each year for the next two years for a total annual assessment of $105.84.
Council Member Yeager stated that while she has no complaints with Rumpke’s
service, she is concerned that the trash assessment is on the tax bill and if a
bill is delinquent so is the trash assessment. Council Member Franzen asked if
the city could provide a list of delinquent property tax residents to Rumpke so
they could discontinue service to that property.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that they could choose to stay with Rumpke and
extend the contract period with Extension #1 for a term from July 1, 2004
through June 30, 2006 or they could decide to bid out the service. Council
Member Bushong suggested not bidding this out again. Council Member Franzen
asked if CSI submitted a lower bid two years ago. Mayor Moriconi replied that
CSI did submit a lower bid but that they were proposing a mechanical arm type
of truck, which was cheaper to operate, and the city had concerns that there
might be some difficulty for the senior residents to use the trash containers
that were required by CSI for this type of collection. Council Member Dupps
concurred and added that the mechanical arm trucks was not a viable option for
Independence terrain. Council Member Brinker suggested that if the city did re-
bid this service that the bids could come in higher than Extension #1. Council
Member Franzen agreed. Mayor Moriconi concluded that it appeared that the
general consensus of council was to continue service with Rumpke by opting to
extend the contract for another two-year period. He stated this matter would be
presented at the March 1st meeting when this decision would be ratified.
Discussion Regarding the Simon Kenton High School Project Prom Donation
Mayor Moriconi announced that Simon Kenton High School has requested a donation
for the after prom event again this year. He stated that council would
officially act on this at the regular business meeting on March 1st. He stated
there was some question last year as to whether the city could make these types
of donations. However the donation was made last year in the amount of $500 as
the event was considered a public safety related concern as it is dedicated to
providing a drug and alcohol free environment for the teenagers of the city.
Chief Butler suggested that in place of making a cash donation to the school
that instead the police could provide in-kind services in the form of police
security for the event. He stated the school customarily provides police
security, but this year the city could provide that in place of the cash
donation. Council Member Yeager asked how many officers the city would provide.
Chief Butler stated one or two officers would be on hand for the event. Mayor
Moriconi stated the city would go with Chief Butler’s suggestion.
Business Recognition for the Month of March
Mayor Moriconi suggested that new Council Member Tom Brinker should select a
business to recognize at the March 1, 2004 council meeting. Council Member
Brinker stated he would like to recognize the new Subway that has opened in the
Beechgrove Plaza.
Discussion Regarding Contracting with a Realtor to Sell the City Building
Mayor Moriconi advised council that since the City Building has not sold that
it may be time to contract with a real estate agency. Council Member Yeager
suggested working with a local agency, Bonnie Garner Century 21. Mayor Moriconi
stated that the local Century 21 office did not have a commercial realtor; but
had one in their Florence office. Council Member Bushong commented the city
could contract with the Florence office and the Independence office could
handle the sale. Mayor Moriconi stated he would contact the Century 21 office
and negotiate a commission percentage.
Report on the Park & Ride lot Appraisal
Mayor Moriconi directed council’s attention to the appraisal report for the
Park and Ride lot. Council Member Yeager expressed concern about selling this
property. She stated that a new Municipal center was not constructed on this
property due to the sewer easement that runs on the property. Mayor Moriconi
stated he believes the lot was too small and would not be suitable for a large
building. Council Member Bushong asked what the next step would be. Mr. Deters
stated that the lot would have to be declared as surplus property. Council
Member Bushong asked if the appraisal amount would be the minimum sale price.
Mr. Deters advised that the city should go through the bid process, but that it
could be set as the minimum price. Mr. Deters advised the city may want to
verify whether or not the sewer line runs perpendicular on the property. He
stated if the sewer line is a simple lateral line it could be relocated. Mayor
Moriconi stated the city would contact One Eleven Engineers.
Discussion Regarding ALS – TransCare
Chief Butler reported that TransCare is seeking funding from the county and
cities. This is a matter the Mayor’s Group has been reviewing and that the City
of Covington has decided they will pull out and will provide their own
ambulatory life support to their residents. He stated that TransCare has
indicated they need $55,000 - $83,000 per year to continue operation and has
asked that this revenue be raised by implementing a tax and would like a
referendum placed on the general election ballot. Chief Butler advised that
providing this service has never been a city matter as the Independence Fire
District handles this service. Mr. Deters stated there is a legislative bill
(HB 406) pending regarding this and it is possible that the Fire District may
establish an ambulance district. Mayor Moriconi stated that if a tax is passed
for this service it would be collected by the county and be a line item on the
county property tax bill.
Discussion Regarding Changing the Caucus Meeting Format
Council Member Brinker suggested changing the caucus meeting format that would
allow the audience members to have more participation other than the privileges
of the floor as an item on the agenda. Mayor Moriconi commented that there may
be a downside to this for the citizens that want to speak at the top of the
meeting so that they can leave before the end of the meeting. Council Member
Bushong asked if this meeting could be televised. Mayor Moriconi advised the
Senior Center building is not equipped for a live broadcast. Council Member
Franzen stated it could be taped and replayed at a later date.
Discussion Regarding Production Drive
Council Member Behler asked if the Sanitation District share part of the
expense of repairing the sinkhole on Production Drive. She stated she is
concerned the city should not make the necessary repairs on Production Drive
until the sinkhole is repaired. Mayor Moriconi advised the repairs the city
will be making to Production Drive are not affected by the section containing
the sinkhole.
Personnel Policy Update
Council Member Yeager asked about the progress on the update of the employee
Personnel Manual. Chief Butler stated that a draft would soon be available.
Crowe Road Update
Council Member Behler asked for an update on the Crowe Road matter. Chief
Butler advised that he attempted to get some grant money to help fund repairs
as well as emergency funds, but to no avail. He stated he had also been working
with the county, but that the county has had some recent changes in public
works personnel and a new county judge executive has recently been appointed to
fill the unexpired term of Judge-Executive Murgatroyd. Chief Butler stated he
also approached the City of Erlanger to get some assistance, but the city has
been non-responsive.
Adjournment
There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member Franzen and
seconded by Council Member Brinker to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:20 p.m.
_____________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 1, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
March 1, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with
Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant of the Grace
Community Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric
Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi presented Mr. Bob Wade of Bob & Lorraine’s Subway with a
plaque of recognition as the business of the month honoree and expressed the
city’s appreciation for recently locating his business in the city. Mr. Wade
stated that they opened their Subway in the Beechgrove Plaza on October 29,
2003 and that business has been good.
Approval of the Minutes of the February 2, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February
2, 2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second
from Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted. Roll call was answered
unanimously and the motion carried 6-0 to accept the minutes as presented.
Approval of the Minutes of the February 23, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February
23, 2004 caucus council meeting. Council Member Yeager so moved, with a second
from Council Member Bushong. One amendment was noted by Council Member Yeager.
Roll call was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0 to accept the
minutes as amended.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Brett Ross, 720 Independence Station Road, representative of the South
Kenton Peewee Football organization, addressed council with their concerns
about the possibility that the city may implement team usage fees. He advised
council that the South Kenton Peewee football is a non-profit organization with
current expenses around $22,000 - $24,000 per year and that prior to using the
field at Memorial Park, they held practices at Simon Kenton High School. He
stated that they have invested several thousand dollars in the maintenance of
the field at Memorial Park, as well as man-hours, in order to keep the field in
good, safe playing condition for the children. He stated they do not have the
additional funds to pay the city for exclusive user privileges. Mr. Ross stated
the only recreation available to the children in the city is the ball fields.
He stated their organization is having a difficult time to cover the cost of
re-seeding the field each year and that imposing a user fee would be an added
hardship.
6.   Council Member Franzen advised Mr. Ross that council did not discuss user
fees for the football teams using the Memorial Park field. She advised that the
discussion at the caucus meeting centered on the two fields being proposed by
the developer of the Shadybrook subdivision; a soccer field and a baseball
field. She stated that council discussed offering exclusive rights as a means
to support the maintenance of an additional city park. She concurred that
sports activities for our children can get expensive, but the city was
discussing a ‘pay to play’ format as a way to offset the expenses associated
with the maintenance of the parks.
7.   Council Member Dupps commented that the football organization donated
$6,000 to refurbish the field. Council Member Yeager advised that the city
funded $14,000 of the overall expense to get this field in good playing
condition.
8.   Mayor Moriconi assured Mr. Ross that the city would give notice to the
football organization if the city should decide to enact a user fee. He advised
that the idea of a ‘pay and play’ program was just in the discussion stage.
9.   J. David Rabe, 529 Independence Station Road requested that he be able to
reserve his comments for later in the meeting when the subject of the Park and
Ride parking lot is discussed. Mayor Moriconi granted this request.
10.   Kevin O-Hara, 2092 Patriot Way, addressed council regarding his concerns
that the city may impose user fees for the use of the football field in
Memorial Park. He stated that he heard there was a deadline. Council Member
Yeager reiterated that this possibility is still in the discussion stage. She
advised that the discussion was prompted because a developer wants to give the
city green space that will be developed as a park with soccer and baseball
fields. She stated the city could not impose user fees on just soccer and
baseball teams.
11.   Rita King, 5966 Taylor Mill Road, President of the Independence Soccer
Club stated that they are also a non-profit organization. She advised council
that they are in desperate need of practice and playing fields, as they have
lost two fields this year. She stated they would be willing to lease the city
fields if they could have input into the construction and maintenance of the
fields. She stated that the field at Sterling Staggs Park will be unplayable
for the spring season as it has been destroyed during the winter months when it
was used by people playing flag football when the land was saturated. She
stated she has spoken to Nita Brake about the possibility of using the Memorial
Park field for their spring season. They are also looking into the possibility
of playing at Summit View Schools. She stated they do not have a huge fund to
work with, but they are willing to help the city with the field maintenance.
Council Member Yeager asked what the city could do to help the Independence
Soccer Club. Ms. King stated they would like to have an agreement with the city
to have priority for use of the new field. She stated that due to the
unplayable condition of the field at Staggs Park, they would like the use of an
alternate field, such as the field at Memorial Park for the March 27 – June 8th
spring season. Council Member Yeager stated the football season would not begin
until July. The representatives in the audience from the Peewee football
organization expressed concern that the soccer players would destroy the field
that they have worked so hard to maintain. Mayor Moriconi stated the city is
working on the condition of the fields and stated the soccer teams would just
use the Memorial Park field during the football off-season. Council Member
Franzen reiterated that football practice begins in July. The representatives
from the Peewee football were adamant that the field should not be used by the
soccer teams as they were concerned the field might be damaged during games
that are played during inclement weather.
12.   Council Member Brinker suggested that a representative from each
organization attend the March 15th caucus meeting so this matter could be
discussed further and hopefully a resolution to everyone’s satisfaction. Mayor
Moriconi concurred and advised this matter would be placed on the March 15th
caucus agenda.
Park & Ride Lot – Discussion to Declare it as Surplus Property and Authorize
Taking Bids for the Sale of the Property
13.   Mayor Moriconi advised that with the receipt of the recent appraisal
report that council had requested on the Park & Ride lot, the next step would
be to declare the property as surplus and authorize taking bids for the sale of
the property. He stated that council needed to determine what direction they
wanted to take and called for a motion. With no motion placed on the floor,
Mayor Moriconi stated that three members had voted in favor of getting the
property appraised.
14.   Council Member Brinker stated he feels that the appraisal came in under
market. He stated he would like more research, i.e. who currently uses this
parking lot and how they would feel about the park and ride lot being relocated
to the Towne Center. Mayor Moriconi stated that a solution has been initiated
for the relocation, which will provide more parking spaces at the Towne Center.
He stated the current property has been appraised as a buildable lot. Council
Member Brinker asked if the city received bids for the sale of the property how
would the proceeds be spent. Mayor Moriconi advised the use of the proceeds
would be decided by council. He suggested that council authorize taking bids
and depending on the amount of the bids received, council could then decide how
to proceed, as they would always have the option to reject all the bids. He
stated a final decision would take place at the April or May meeting. Council
Member Yeager stated the Park & Ride lot is part of the downtown area and was
reluctant to sell this property, especially since the City Building will be
relocating south of the downtown area.
15.   Mayor Moriconi expressed his disappointment and stated this was a waste
of the money spent for an appraisal.
16.   J. David Rabe, 529 Independence Station Road, addressed council with
comments that he was in favor of keeping the Park & Ride lot in its present
location. He stated that with gasoline prices escalating, TANK may begin to see
an increase in ridership. He stated that the city has already invested in this
property and feels it would be a waste to sell this property with the only
benefit being payroll tax if a business would build on the site. He feels it
would be a long time for the city to recoup the loss. In closing, Mr. Rabe
commented it would be more positive to add another park and ride location at
the Towne Center.
17.   Council Member Behler commented that she visited some of the downtown
businesses to ask if their customers used the park and ride lot and they
responded that their customers do not use the lot.
18.   There being no further discussion nor a motion/second to declare the park
and ride lot as surplus property the matter was closed.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment (1658R) Shadybrook Subdivision –
1st Reading
19.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that would approve a map amendment (application number 1658R) for
property changing an approximate 65-acre area located approximately 600 feet
south of Senour Road between Clover Ridge Drive and Fowler Creek from R-1C and
R-1C (RCD) to R-1C (PUD) with two conditions.
20.   Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised this would
be presented for a second reading and enactment at the April 5th council
meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to the Code Enforcement Board & Amending
Ordinance No. 1999-O-02 – 1st Reading
21.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that amends the language of Ordinance No. 1999-O-02 that established
the Code Enforcement Board. The amendments will correct content errors and
provide a new section that would assist the Zoning Administrator with code
enforcement. City Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Park Shelter Rental Fees and Amending
Ordinance No. 1998-O-05 – 1st Reading
22.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that amends Ordinance No. 1998-O-05 relating to the rental fees and
deposit rates for the park shelters. The proposed ordinance will eliminate
refundable deposit fees and increase the rental fees for the park shelters. Mr.
Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing a Traffic Speed Hump Program – 1st Reading
23.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that will create a new section of traffic laws dealing with speed
humps, their classifications and the requirements for determining their
locations, installation, maintenance, removal, necessity and funding. Mr.
Deters read the proposed ordinance.
24.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the four ordinances would be presented at the
April 5, 2004 business meeting for a second reading and enactment.
Discussion regarding the Renewal of the Rumpke Waste Hauling Contract
25.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the current contract with Rumpke for
residential trash pick up would expire on June 30, 2004. He stated that the
contract provides for two-year extensions through June 30, 2012. He advised
that Extension #1 would increase the resident’s annual trash assessment by
$5.04 for each of the next two years, taking the annual assessment from $100.80
to $105.84. Mayor Moriconi advised that opting to extend the current contract
with Rumpke would save the city time and money that would be expended going
through the bidding process.
26.   Council Member Behler made a motion to select Extension #1 of the current
contract with Rumpke for residential trash collection, seconded by Council
Member Franzen. Council Member Bushong asked what the increase percentage
amounted to. Council Member Dupps advised that on page two of the current
contract it states that the two-year extensions calculate a 5% increase for
each extension. Shawn Butler commented that it amounts to 2.5% for each year.
Council Member Yeager asked if the city would still collect this trash
assessment from the residents. The City Clerk commented that the rate would be
higher if Rumpke would be asked to direct bill the residents. Council Member
Yeager expressed concern that since the assessment is added to the annual
property tax bill, if the bill is delinquent then the city ends up paying for
the trash pick up for those residents. Mayor Moriconi advised the current
contract extension rate is based on the city collecting the trash assessment
from the residents.
27.   There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 to select Extension #1 of the Rumpke contract
for trash pick up for the period beginning on July1, 2004 and ending on June
30, 2006.
Award Bid for Fleming Drive Repairs
28.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the city is in receipt of bids for the street
repair of Fleming Drive. Chief Butler stated that the city engineer, CDS
Associates, is recommending the city award the bid to Hendy, Inc., who
submitted a low bid of $160,984.00
29.   Council Member Yeager made a motion to award the Fleming Drive repairs
bid to Hendy Inc. as the lowest and best bid; seconded by Council Member
Brinker. Council Member Bushong asked if this company has been used by the city
in the past. Chief Butler stated that Hendy has not performed work in
Independence, but that CDS is familiar with their work and is confident they
will do a good job. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-
0.
Discussion Regarding the Development of a City Park in the Shadybrook
Subdivision
30.   Chief Butler reported that Mr. Berling has not completed the development
plan of this proposed city park yet, but hopes to make a presentation to
council at the April meeting. Council Member Bushong stated that he would like
to go on record as requesting that a restroom facility be an essential part of
the development of this park. Council Member Yeager asked if Mr. Berling was
able to provide more parking spaces as requested. Council Member Behler asked
that field irrigation be considered also. Chief Butler advised that Mr. Berling
was trying to consider all the amenities that council would like to see
developed in this park. Mayor Moriconi advised that Mr. Berling would be at the
next caucus meeting to discuss the development plan in detail.
Adjournment
31.   Mayor Moriconi advised since he had nothing to report and there was no
need for an executive session he called for a motion to adjourn. Motion to
adjourn was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky.
March 15, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 15,
2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager answered roll call.
Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Diana Walker, 6446 Shawnee Court, Independence, Kentucky addressed council
regarding her concerns about a request by Mr. Marty Neltner for a text
amendment that might permit him to construct a self-storage facility behind the
Cherokee Shopping Center. She stated that the subject property owned by Mr.
Neltner is bordered on three sides by property zoned residential. She stated
that she is concerned they will loose their privacy and that this type of
structure will devalue their property. She stated that the subject property is
less than three acres and wondered if there was a minimum acreage requirement
for his proposed development. Ms. Walker also stated that the security lighting
for this kind of structure would annoy the residents.
Mayor Moriconi explained that the proposed ordinance to approve this text
amendment had a first reading in November 2003 and that since that time the
matter has been postponed. Ms. Walker commented that the Planning Commission
actually did not approve a text amendment that would permit self-storage units
in that zone. Council Member Franzen advised that the text amendment that was
approved would allow parking garages, which Mr. Neltner did not want. Mr.
Deters advised that since Mr. Neltner owns the adjacent property, it can be
considered with the smaller parcel for a “total site area” as one development.
Ken Lancaster, 733 Cox Road, Independence, Kentucky asked if any of the council
members had inspected the area that Mr. Neltner would like to develop. Some of
the council members indicated that they had inspected the area. Mr. Lancaster
reiterated that the parcel is small, a little over two acres and expressed his
opinion that this type of facility does not belong in this mostly residential
location. He also expressed concern regarding ‘unknown’ contents in the rental
units. In closing, Mr. Lancaster reminded council that the Planning Commission
voted to disapprove a storage unit facility in this zone.
Mayor Moriconi commented that there is no council support to approve Mr.
Neltner’s request for a storage unit facility in this location and that the
matter was a dead issue. Council Member Franzen stated that the current zoning
allows Mr. Neltner thirty-four other development uses for this property and
that she does not support a plan for a storage unit facility. Council Members
Yeager and Behler concurred. Council Member Yeager stated that the Planning
Commission had good reason to deny this request and feels the city should not
override their decision. Council Member Dupps concurred and added that Mr.
Neltner has other less obtrusive options available to him for development of
this property.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters if the council should have the second reading
of the proposed ordinance that would approve the text amendment as recommended
by the Planning Commission. Mr. Deters replied yes. Council Member Dupps
informed the residents that Mr. Neltner’s property is zoned commercial and he
can put other types of commercial structures on that parcel.
Mayor Moriconi commented that Mr. Neltner was not in attendance nor was there a
representative for him in attendance. He went on to say that he did not think
Mr. Neltner was interested in developing the land other than for the self-
storage units.
Council Member Brinker explained to the residents that a development plan is
only submitted to the city for approval when the property owner is requesting a
zone change to enable him to use the property for a purpose other than that of
the current zone. He stated that if the property owner wants to develop the
land for a purpose under the current zone then it would only need approval from
the Planning Commission and would therefore not come before the city council
for approval.
Mr. John Huffman, 4290 Richardson Road, Independence, Kentucky commented that
he has been required to comply with the zoning laws and feels the city should
follow the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
Mayor Moriconi advised the second reading of the text amendment as recommended
by the Planning Commission would be on the April 5, 2004 council meeting
agenda.
Update on the Proposed City Park in the Shadybrook Subdivision
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Chuck Berling, developer of the Shadybrook
Subdivision. He stated that the last time Mr. Berling appeared before council
with the plan for the development of a park in the subdivision, the council had
requested he add more parking spaces to the parking lot. Mr. Berling stated
that he was able to accomplish that by replacing a portion of the street
pavement to increase the size of the parking lot to accommodate 74 spaces. He
stated that this amount of spaces should be adequate but that overflow parking
for about twenty cars could be at the far end of the Clover Meadow subdivision.
In addition, stated that ball games should be staggered to prevent parking
problems.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that this park plan would be a turnkey project
wherein it would be completely developed by the time it is deeded over to the
city. Mr. Berling advised that if the city would like the city engineer or an
architect to review the development plan for the park then they would build it
according to that approved plan. Council Member Brinker stated that he would
like principal representatives from the ball leagues to have some input into
the design of the fields. Mayor Moriconi agreed that the city engineer could
meet with the league reps. Mr. John Huffman stated that he runs Huffman
Sportscape and he could offer suggestions about the kind of materials that
should be mixed with the soil for the ball fields.
Mr. Berling advised that a shelter house and restroom facility would be
included in this development plan. Mayor Moriconi confirmed that Mr. Berling
was agreeing to construct a restroom facility. Mr. Berling said that, yes, he
would work that out with the city. Council Member Behler asked if irrigation
for the fields would be part of the plan. Mr. Berling advised that irrigation
lines would not be expensive to install but would be costly for the city to
maintain as a separate water meter would be necessary. Mr. Berling also
conveyed that there would be security lights in the parking lot as well as
streetlights along the corridor to the lot. An audience member suggested the
installation of boundary fences around the fields. Mr. Berling did not commit
to providing for fencing in the development plan. Mayor Moriconi recommended a
coordinated effort be made to obtain everyone’s input on the development plan.
Mr. Berling commented he would need to finalize the plan as soon as possible
prior to grading the land. He stated they would complete a rough grading this
year to determine how well it will hold water.
Walkable Communities Workshop –Larisa Keith of the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission
Mayor Moriconi introduced Larisa Keith of the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission. Ms. Keith advised council that Independence has been selected to
participate in the Walkable Communities Initiative which is an effort to make
the city and region more pedestrian friendly. She stated the program is being
funded by the National Center for Bicycling and Walking, OKI Regional Council
of Governments and NKAPC. Ms. Keith invited the city officials and other
interested citizens to participate in a 4-hour “Walkable Community” workshop to
be held on April 20, 2004 at the Independence Fire Station located at 1980
Delaware Crossing, from 1:00 – 5:30 p.m. She advised that the workshop would
identify the needs of the community, highlighting land use, transportation
overview, assessment of the area as well as learning about pedestrian design
and safety. During the workshop solutions will be proposed to address problem
areas.
Council Member Bushong asked if this program has been done in other
communities. Ms. Keith replied no, but that the cities of Erlanger and Florence
are planning to. Council Member Bushong commented that he plans to attend and
expressed concern that many areas of the city do not have sidewalks. Ms. Keith
advised the participants in the workshop would be discussing those areas and
how to create a walkable community. She stated that the workshop would also
discuss funding solutions and how to obtain grants.
Council Member Dupps asked who they hoped would attend this workshop. Ms. Keith
replied that the workshop schedule was not set by NKAPC, but that it is geared
toward policymakers and because it is a public meeting the public is invited to
attend as well. She recommended viewing the website to learn more about this
program.
Council Member Behler asked how Independence was chosen to participate in this
program. Ms. Keith stated that the city was recommended by NKAPC. Mayor
Moriconi cautioned the workshop attendees to be careful walking along Madison
Pike as there are some areas that do not have sidewalks. He also commented that
he would be very interested in learning more about grant money that might be
available for the construction of sidewalks.
Report on Establishing a Procedure for the Collection of Delinquent Property
Taxes
Mayor Moriconi requested a report from the City Attorney and City Clerk on the
procedure for the collection of delinquent taxes. City Clerk, Patricia Taney
reported that delinquent property owners will receive two delinquent notices
from the Clerk’s office, with a third notice from the City Attorney. If the
taxes are not paid by May following the tax year, the attorney will begin
foreclosure proceedings. She stated that many delinquent bills have been paid
since the attorney’s letter was mailed last week. Ms. Taney stated she met with
representatives of the Kenton County Sheriff’s office earlier today to discuss
the request by council to obtain a proposal from the county to bill and collect
city taxes. She advised the county stated it would take a week or so to submit
a proposal. Ms. Taney also stated that Mr. Deters has submitted a proposed
ordinance that will amend Ordinance No. 3-5-79 establishing city attorney fees
for the lien enforcement. She stated this would be presented for a first
reading at the April 5, 2004 meeting, with a second reading at the May meeting.
After the ordinance is enacted, then the city attorney will be able to proceed
with foreclosure action on the delinquent properties.
City Attorney Report on the Lawsuit – Howard v City
City Attorney, Jed Deters advised council that Judge Steven Jaeger has ruled in
favor of the city in the Howard v City lawsuit. He stated that Captain Bill
Howard, who was dismissed from the Independence Police Department, will now
have thirty days to file an appeal.
Discussion Regarding the Memorial Park Ball Field
Council Member Franzen stated that she heard that the football field at
Memorial Park has been lined for soccer play. She stated that she thought this
was going to be discussed before deciding whether or not the soccer teams would
be able to play on this field. Mayor Moriconi stated that soccer starts in two
weeks and will be finished in May allowing plenty of time (7 weeks) to prepare
the field for football play. Council Member Dupps stated the field would need
to be repaired and seeded to prepare it for the football season and if a
drought hits, the field may not be ready when football practice begins in July.
Mayor Moriconi advised that the Independence Soccer Club was donating $1,000
for the maintenance of each field. Council Member Franzen commented that the
football league has already spent several thousand dollars maintaining the
football field at Memorial Park. Rita King, President of Independence Soccer
stated that she has discussed the use of the field with Dave Martin of the
football league and Nita Brake and understood that everything had been cleared
for the soccer teams to use the field. Mr. Martin of the football league was
concerned that the soccer teams would play on the field during rain. Mayor
Moriconi advised that Nita Brake, the city’s Recreation Director would be the
person to determine if the ground was too wet to play on the field, which
should ease the concerns of the football league. Council Member Brinker
suggested the leagues providing the city with their game schedules. Mayor
Moriconi advised that the city would work out a solution that everyone could
abide by. Council Member Brinker suggested the council get a report on the
condition of the fields from Ms. Brake. Mayor Moriconi agreed that with the
soccer season quickly approaching that the schedules need to be finalized.
Council Member Bushong commented that he feels there should be more of an
agreement between the two organizations and not the city. Rita King reiterated
that she had spoken to both ’’Nita Brake’ and the President of the football
organization who both stated they didn’t mind if the soccer teams played on
that field. Mr. Thomas stated that he did not have a problem with it as long as
it was not a permanent arrangement. Mayor Moriconi stated that they should work
a schedule out with ’’Nita Brake’ then she can report back to council.
Report on HB 413
Council Member Franzen advised that HB 413 passed the house and has moved to
the Appropriations Committee in the Senate. She stated that she has spoken to
Senator Dick Roeding who has advised that the bill has become a political game
between the democrats and republicans. Council Member Franzen encouraged the
residents to contact their legislatures and urge them to vote for this bill.
She stated there is a possibility that the bill will die, but there seems to be
consensus in the senate to pass it, but first it has to make it out of the
Appropriations Committee.
Discussion Regarding City Maintenance of County Roads
Council Member Behler expressed some concern regarding information she has
learned that the city will now be responsible for maintaining county roads
within the city limits and wondered how that would affect the city budget. Mr.
Deters advised that this is not new, but clarified that it only relates to
county roads that are annexed into the city, as then the county street would
become a city street.
Discussion of Sidewalk Installation at the Brentwood Apartments along Delaware
Crossing
Council Member Brinker stated he received a call stating that a section of
sidewalk along Delaware Crossing in front of the Brentwood Apartment was
missing. Mayor Moriconi advised the new owner has been notified that the
sidewalks are a requirement and they have promised to get them installed.
Adjournment
There being no further discussion, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn with
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting
adjourned at 8:09 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor Moriconi
Attest:
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 5, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
April 5, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with
Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Charles Steger gave the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen
and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Eric Dupps had chosen
Valvoline Instant Oil Change as the recipient of the Business of the Month. He
presented owner, Dan Childress with a plaque of recognition. Mr. Childress
thanked Mr. Dupps and his store manager, as well as the Independence community.
Approval of the Minutes of the March 1, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the March 1,
2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second
from Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the March 15, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the March 15,
2004 caucus council meeting. Council Member Behler so moved, with second from
Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 to accept the minutes as presented.
Guest Speaker – Diane Brumback of ––––Kentucky–– Women In Action
5.   Mayor Moriconi introduced Diane Brumback, President of the Kentucky Women
in Action organization. Ms. Brumback explained that she has been visiting local
governments to promote awareness about this new political organization that
will focus on issues important to women and work to see that there are equal
representation of men and women on local boards and commissions. She stated
that the group would be endorsing candidates for office as well as collecting
resumes of qualified individuals who represent the group’s mission of promoting
equality for women. She advised the group would also provide assistance in
filling vacant political positions throughout the state. Ms. Brumback stated
that ’’’’Kentucky’’ Women In Action currently have four hundred members
throughout the state. She encouraged everyone to visit their website at http://
kywomeninaction.homestead.com to learn more about the organization.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
6.   William Edmondson, 4931 Oliver Road, Independence addressed council to
voice his objection to the new vehicle sticker tax. He was upset that he
received a letter from the city stating the unpaid tax was subject to a $50.00
fine when he did not pay the tax. He stated that the courthouse clerks did not
inform him of the fine when he chose not to pay the tax at the time he renewed
his vehicle registration. He stated that the vehicle he was registering had
originally belonged to his sister who recently died. Mr. Edmondson went on to
say that he felt this was an unfair tax, especially since he lived on a county
maintained road and mainly traveled on county or state maintained roads. He
stated that he felt the only service he received from the city was the trash
collection.
7.   Mr. Deters commented that this type of scenario is very likely since the
owner of record as of January 1 of each taxing year would be the name listed on
the vehicle registration card. Mayor Moriconi asked the City Clerk to contact
Mr. Edmondson to discuss a resolution to the matter.
8.   JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, Independence addressed council regarding
her view on the possible sale of the city’s Park and Ride municipal parking lot
on Madison Pike. She stated that she had hoped there would be more discussion
by council on this matter at the last meeting, since the city had the lot
appraised with the intent of possibly selling it. She stated that she believes
the city should consider selling the property if they are offered a fair and
good price. Mrs. Cobble commended Mayor Moriconi for working with Mr. Charlie
Deters to relocate the park and ride lot to the Towne Center, which she feels,
would be a better and safer location for bus riders to embark and disembark a
bus. She stated that the Towne Center’’ would also offer a retail convenience
to the commuters. Mrs. Cobble also commended Council Member Behler for speaking
with the downtown business owners to ask how or if the relocation of the park
and ride lot would affect their businesses.
9.   Mrs. Cobble stated that she felt the new construction of an office
building on the park and ride lot would make a nice appearance in the downtown
area as well as promote other community interests. She stated it could bring
new life to the downtown area along with the new Victorian style building
recently constructed by One-Eleven Engineers.
10.   In closing, Mrs. Cobble presented to council a listing of the expenses
paid by the city to maintain this lot on an annual basis as well as estimated
revenue that could be generated if the property was sold and developed. She
encouraged council to re-consider selling the property if they could get a fair
and good price.
11.   Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, Independence advised council that he was
not here to discuss the Park and Ride lot, which he opposes the sale of, but
commented that Mrs. Cobble made some good points in her presentation.
12.   Mr. Nienaber advised council that he was against the city supporting a
tax increase for TransCare, a private ambulance service. He stated that he
voluntarily supports TransCare through it’s annual membership drive, but is
against any tax that would be mandated on the citizens.
13.   Chief Butler advised everyone that he has attended numerous regional
meetings on this tax proposal and he has informed the other local agencies that
Independence will not be contributing to this. Mayor Moriconi also commented
that he has been attending meetings for the last two years where this matter
was discussed. He advised that Independence is on record by way of adopting a
Resolution that would support putting the tax proposal as a referendum on the
general election ballot, but does not support annual contributions from the
city budget directly to TransCare.
14.   Pat Walton, 2610 Harris Pike, Independence introduced herself as an
active member of the Independence Senior Citizens Center. She stated that she
and some of the other senior members have been planning for the fundraising
events they will be organizing during the city’s July 4th Celebration when they
recently learned that they will no be permitted to use the Senior Center
building on July 4th. She stated they have learned that the Special Events
Committee will have use of the building for a VIP reception, with the seniors
being allotted a certain number of VIP reception tickets that they can sell.
She stated many seniors have spent the last several months planning this
fundraiser with a silent auction, quilt raffle, etc. and now they feel excluded
from the building.
15.   Mayor Moriconi explained that the July 4th Celebration events and
expenses have been expanding each year and the city is making an effort to wean
the expenses off the city budget. He stated that the VIP reception will only
last four hours on the night the fireworks are displayed, which will be July
3rd this year. He advised they will not need use of the entire building and
there was never the intent to exclude the seniors.
16.   Chief Butler advised that the Chairman of the Senior Center Board of
Directors was informed last December of the city’s plan to hold a VIP reception
on the day of the fireworks display. He stated that the seniors would get one-
third of the total tickets that will be available for the reception. Ms. Walton
stated the seniors were not informed of this decision until March of this year.
17.   Ms. Walton stated that the seniors’ objective is to assist the city in
providing funds to maintain the Center. Chief Butler explained that the Special
Events Committee is attempting to make the July 4th Celebration self-sufficient
by soliciting private donations from corporate sponsors and that providing a
VIP reception area for the sponsors is a way the city can express gratitude for
their donation. Mayor Moriconi advised the seniors could still hold a silent
auction. Ms. Walton was concerned that they would not be able to generate a
large enough crowd. Mayor Moriconi commented that it will be a two-day event
and should be well attended.
18.   Council Member Brinker commented that the Special Events is a volunteer
group and open to all citizens. He suggested the seniors attend a meeting to
present their ideas. Chief Butler stated he would contact Ms. Walton to inform
her of the next scheduled meeting of the Special Events Committee.
19.   Council Member Behler thanked Ms. Walton for her spirit of cooperation
and willingness to work. She commented that the Special Events Committee and
the members of the Senior Center should work together to arrive at a mutually
beneficial resolution.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-03 – Approving a Map Amendment for Shadybrook Subdivision
– 2nd Reading
20.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-03 that would approve a map amendment for a 65-acre section located in
the Shadybrook Subdivision approximately 600 feet south of Senour Road between
Clover Ridge Drive and Fowler Creek Road from R-1C and R-1C (RCD) to R-1C
(PUD), with certain restrictions.
21.   Council Member Behler moved to table the second reading approving this
map amendment until the council has reviewed the proposed budget. She stated
she is uncomfortable taking on the maintenance of a new park, which is included
in the proposed map amendment for this subdivision until there is assurance the
city will be able to support the maintenance. Council Member Franzen asked if
approving this map amendment would be approving the park plan also or if that
would be presented later. Mr. Deters advised that the park is not developed
yet. He presented council with a commitment letter from Mr. Chuck Berling of
Shadybrook, LLC wherein he agrees to convey to the city approximately seventeen
acres that he will develop as a park. He stated that Mr. Berling is committing
to develop two athletic fields, a parking lot to hold seventy-two vehicles and
a handicap accessible restroom building. Mr. Deters advised the city would not
accept maintenance of the park until after it is developed and that the map
amendment was approving the zone change to permit this mixed development.
22.   Council Member Behler’s motion died for lack of a second.
23.   Council Member Behler made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O- 03;
seconded by Council Member Franzen. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member
Dupps expressed some confusion regarding the city’s elimination of RCD’s not
PUD’s which he discussed with Mr. Barbian, the city’s Building Inspector. He
stated that more caution should be exerted with greater density developments.
There being no further discussion, the motion was called to a vote and roll was
answered unanimously with the motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-03 approved
6-0. Mr. Deters gave a final reading of Ordinance No. 2004-O-03.
Proposed Ordinance Approving a Zoning Text Amendment for Parking Garages and
Self-Storage Facilities – New 1st Reading
24.   Mayor Moriconi explained that this proposed text amendment was presented
for a first reading in November 2003 accepting the recommendation of the KCPC
approving a text amendment to add parking garages as a permitted use in the NSC
zone and denying self-storage facilities and warehouses as a conditional use in
the NSC zone. He advised the second reading has been delayed for some time, as
there was a general consensus of council regarding approval of garages and
self-storage facilities in the NSC zone. Mayor Moriconi stated the ordinance is
now being presented for a second reading.
25.   Council Member Yeager moved to have a second reading of the proposed
ordinance; seconded by Council Member Behler. A brief discussion ensued.
Council Member Franzen stated she was concerned about adding parking garages as
a permitted use in the NSC zone. Mr. Deters advised that removing this language
from the proposed ordinance would be a significant change that would
necessitate a new first reading of the ordinance. He stated that if council
wanted to uphold only part of the KCPC’s text amendment recommendation he would
modify the ordinance language to deny parking garages in the NSC zone. Mr.
Deters made the changes and gave a new first reading to the proposed ordinance.
Council Members Yeager and Behler withdrew their original motion/second to have
a second reading of the original proposed ordinance.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-05– Relating to the Code Enforcement Board & Amending
Ordinance No. 1999-O-02 – 2nd Reading
26.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-05 amending the language of Ordinance No. 1999-O-02 that established the
Code Enforcement Board. The amendments will correct content errors and provide
a new section that would assist the Zoning Administrator with code enforcement.
City Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance.
27.   Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-05; seconded
by Council Member Dupps. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-06 – Relating to Park Shelter Rental Fees and Amending
Ordinance No. 1998-O-05 – 2nd Reading
28.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-06 that amends Ordinance No. 1998-O-05 relating to the reservation of
city park shelters and establishing rental fees and deposit rates. Ordinance
No. 2004-O-06 eliminates refundable deposit fees and increases the rental fees
for the park shelters. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O-06.
29.   Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O- 06 as read;
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Council Member Bushong commented that if
future amendments are made that council should consider imposing a higher
rental fee for non-residents. He stated that he has recently learned that this
is a common practice in other cities. He stated that he would also like to see
a future amendment have additional language that would state that the rental
agreement would be revoked if any rules were violated. He also feels that the
renter should sign a form stating they have received a copy of the park rules
and regulations and is aware of the conditions imposed. Mr. Deters commented
that he feels it goes without saying that violation of any law would result in
the immediate discontinued use of the park shelter. Mayor Moriconi stated that
the amendments in this ordinance deal strictly with the establishment of the
rental fees that the city will charge. Council Member Bushong stated that he
felt the permit form should include park rules that would include no
skateboarding or rollerblading, no loud music, no firearms, fireworks or open
fires. Mayor Moriconi stated that the reservation rental permit form could be
amended to include Council Member Bushong’s recommendations, but would have no
effect on the language of the ordinance. Council Member Yeager agreed with
Council Member Bushong’s recommendations. There being no further discussion,
the roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-07 – Establishing a Traffic Speed Hump Program – 2nd
Reading
30.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading of Ordinance No.
2004-O-07 establishing a new section of traffic laws dealing with speed humps,
their classifications and the requirements for determining their locations,
installation, maintenance, removal, necessity and funding. Council Member
Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-07; seconded by Council Member
Behler. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by
Council Member Yeager. Motion carried 5-1. Mr. Deters gave the second reading
of Ordinance No. 2004-O-07.
Declare the Park and Ride Lot as Surplus Property
31.   Council Member Franzen made a motion to declare the park and ride
municipal parking lot as surplus property and take bids for the sale of the
property; seconded by Council Member Brinker. Council Member Brinker stated
that the people he has talked to support the sale of this property as a means
to generate revenue. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no
votes cast by Council Members Yeager and Bushong. Motion carried 4-2.
Resolution No. 2004-R-02 - petitioning the Kenton County Library Board to keep
the Independence Branch within the City Limits
32.   Council Member Yeager made a motion that the city go on record as being
in support of requesting the Kenton County Library to keep the Independence
branch within the city limits; seconded by Council Member Franzen. Council
Member Behler recommended that those supporting this request contact the
Library Executive Director, Wayne Onkst. Mayor Moriconi advised that the next
meeting of the Kenton County Public Library’s Board of Trustees is scheduled
for April 20, 2004. (Board meetings are held on the third Tuesday of each month
at 10:00 a.m.) Mr. Deters advised he would draft a resolution, to be signed by
the mayor and forwarded to the Board of Trustees. Council Member Dupps provided
telephone numbers for the ’’Covington’, Erlanger and ’’’’Independence’’
branches. There being no further discussion, roll call vote was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 3-5-79 Establishing City Attorney
Fees for Lien Enforcement – 1st Reading
33.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that
would amend Ordinance Number 3-5-79 which establishes the attorney fee for
actions enforcing liens. He advised this amendment would eliminate the $300.00
fee and replace it with the language “a reasonable attorney fee”. Mr. Deters
read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised this ordinance would be
presented for a second reading for adoption at the May 3rd council meeting.
Report on Delinquent Tax Collection
34.   Mayor Moriconi reported that the recent effort by the City Clerk’s office
to collect delinquent property taxes has generated $69,350 to date. Mayor
Moriconi thanked the City Clerk and staff for this effort.
Resolution No. 2004-R-01 – Approval of the Revised Personnel Policy
35.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2004-R-01 that adopts
a revised Personnel Policy. Chief Butler explained to council that the policy
manual was reviewed by Deters, Benzinger & LaVelle law firm with regard to
legal compliance of applicable state and federal laws. He stated the sexual
harassment policy was broadened to include all types of harassment and made
clear the process in handling those situations.
36.   Chief Butler also reported that another major change was regarding the
number of hours an employee could accrue paid leave. He stated the revised
policy will permit an employee to accrue up to 480 hours of paid leave but will
only be paid 240 hours upon separation with the city. He stated that more than
240 hours would only promote absenteeism during the last days of employment
with the city. He stated the maximum accrual of 480 hours should be permitted
as employees do not get sick time. Council Member Yeager asked if there would
be a grandfather clause that would permit employees that currently have more
than 480 hours to be paid for that additional time. Chief Butler replied that
he planned to buy down some of his employee’s accrued paid leave time. He
stated that Mayor Moriconi has directed him to fund this out of the current
budget. He stated that he has worked hard to address this concern that was
expressed by the council earlier this year.
37.   Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2004-R-01; seconded
by Council Member Yeager. City Attorney, Jed Deters read the resolution. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – ––Shawn Butler
   Rejection of Bids Received for Computer and Audio/Visual Equipment for new
Municipal Center
38.   Chief Butler reported that the bids received for computers and audio/
visual equipment for the new Municipal Center came in much higher than budgeted
and would like formal action from the council to reject all the bids. He stated
the budgeted funds for this equipment was not to exceed $60,000.
39.   Council Member Franzen moved to reject all the bids received for the new
computers and audio/visual equipment for the new Municipal Center; seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
   Enter into an Agreement with Telecommunication Board for Purchase of Audio/
Visual Equipment and Labor
40.   Chief Butler requested authorization to enter into an agreement with the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky for the labor and purchase of
audio/visual equipment for the audio/visual equipment for the council chambers
of the new Municipal Center building. He stated the city could save $33,000 by
having the Telecommunications Board supply this equipment and perform the labor
to install it. He stated that basically the labor is free and is a service they
provide to the city as part of the franchise fees the city pays to the Board.
He stated they would provide a good system as it is a system they would be
operating when televising the council meetings.
41.   Council Member Bushong asked if they would be televising the caucus
meetings. Council Member Brinker stated he would be in favor of changing the
format of the caucus meetings and would like to see the caucus meetings
televised. Mayor Moriconi advised that the caucus meetings may be taped for
delayed playback.
42.   Council Member Bushong moved to enter into an agreement with the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky for the purchase of the audio/
visual equipment, to include labor, in an amount not to exceed $30,000; motion
was seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
   Update on Proposed Road Repairs
43.   Dalewood Drive and Thomas Drive - Chief Butler advised that resurfacing
of Dalewood Drive and Thomas Drive has been put out for bids with a bid opening
scheduled for May 7, 2004. He stated the bid specs states the road work should
be completed no later than June 30, 2004. He advised the city engineer has
estimated the repairs will cost $33,600 for Dalewood Drive and $69,500 for
Thomas Drive.
44.   Regal Ridge Drive – Chief Butler advised he has been approached by the
developer of Regal Ridge Drive regarding the street repairs that the city has
required before accepting this private drive for maintenance. He stated that
the city engineer is inspecting the street and has noted a few repairs still
needed by the developer. He stated that most requirements have been met by the
developer thus far.
45.   Walnut Hall Drive – Chief Butler reported that this street will be
resurfaced with funds from the next budget cycle (2004/05) and that bids will
be sought in June with award of a contract at the July 5th meeting.
46.   Crowe Road – Chief Butler advised that he has been in contact with state
representatives to discuss the deteriorating condition of Crowe Road. He stated
he has asked them to consider funding the stabilization of the entire road
which would be a huge savings for the city. He advised that the State feels the
Old Richardson Road Bridge is safe as long as vehicles maintain the 8-ton
weight limit. He stated the State suggested the city re-open the old entrance
off of Madison Pike since there is now less traffic in that area of Madison.
Mayor Moriconi commented that Ex-Kenton County Judge Executive Dick Murgatroyd
taking the position of Deputy of the Transportation Cabinet may be an advantage
for this area of Kentucky.
   Update on HB 413 Law Enforcement Bill
47.   Chief Butler reported that HB 413 has passed the Senate and will be
signed into law. He stated the city could potentially acquire $45,000 - $55,000
in revenue.
   Child Safety Seat Fair
48.   Chief Butler advised the police department will sponsor a Child Safety
Seat Fair on April 25, 2004 from 12:30 – 2:30 p.m. at the Senior Center. He
stated they will inspect child restraint seats.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
49.   Mayor Moriconi announced the city has been awarded a $250,000 grant to
fund the hiring of School Resource Officers for three years. He stated that
Independence is one of only four cities in the state to be awarded this grant.
50.   Municipal Center Update - Council Member Behler asked for an update on
the construction of the new Municipal Center. Chief Butler stated the new
completion date is May 24, 2004. He stated the contractor has requested
additional days, which the architect is requiring documentation before
recommending whether or not to grant this extra time. He stated if the
contractor cannot document the need for additional time they will be subject to
a $1,000 per day penalty. Chief Butler stated he would be able to report more
at the caucus meeting.
51.   Justice Lane Report - Mr. Deters reported that the dispute between the
residents on Justice Lane and the city regarding street maintenance may now
subside as the Scherder property owners have signed a contract to sell to a
developer who will upgrade the road to subdivision standards.
52.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Chief Butler has received the Greater
Cincinnati Public Employees award as Chief of the Year. He stated there will be
a ceremony on May 5, 2004.
Adjournment
53.   There being no further discussion or business Mayor Moriconi called for a
motion to adjourn. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by Council
Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:40 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 19, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
April 19, 2004
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 19,
2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members, Carol Franzen, Eric Dupps, Tom
Brinker, Donna Yeager and Mary Pat Behler answered roll call. Council Member
Jim Bushong was not present. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters,
Finance Director, Teresa Franklin Hudson, Chief Shawn Butler, City Clerk,
Patricia Taney and Assistant City Clerk, Kathy Stenger.
Mayor Moriconi stated there would be no privileges of the floor, due to the
Citizens Finance and Economic Development Committee giving a Power Point
presentation regarding their suggestions for the 2004/05 budget. He asked that
all questions be held until the end of the presentation. Mayor Moriconi thanked
the Citizens Committee for all of their time and hard work they put into the
presentation. He also asked if the committee would take their group into an
Economic Development Committee and Mr. Darrel Herald chair the committee. Mr.
Herald stated he would. Mr. Jim Kudera gave an opening statement to Mayor and
Council in regards to their recommendations. He stated the presentation
consisted of recommendations based on department figures, previous city history
and functions of the city. He asked that Mayor and Council review all issues in
depth. He stated after the presentation, a hard copy of the report would be
given to Mayor Moriconi, Council Members, Chief Butler and City Clerk, Patricia
Taney. It would be at their discretion as to whom they choose to give a copy
to. He stated this committee should be held harmless in any decision the city
makes. Mr. Herald stated the committee’s part was easy, relatively speaking but
it was going to be tough on the Mayor and Council to decide on which, if any,
of the recommendations will be implemented.
CITIZEN FINANCE POWER POINT PRESENTATION
Mr. Darrel Herald was the spokesman for the Committee and advised the current
situation is a result of inactions on certain circumstances that occurred by
previous administrations that has created a challenge for the city. He stated
that failure to react to these situations at this time may have grave
consequences for the city. He suggested the reluctance of the previous
administrations has placed a serious operating burden on the city for
maintenance and upkeep of the Senior Center and which could carry over to the
opening of the new city building. He stated the Committee feels the present and
future administrations will be faced with the financial task of meeting these
obligations. The Committee conducted their research through interviews,
analyzing data from other cities and their own work related work experiences.
He stated the Committee feels the recommendations presented tonight do not
completely solve the city’s financial outlook but will help in starting the
process. He stated it was difficult for the Committee to come up with these
suggestions because many deal with the livelihood of individual employees and
the current administration will have difficult decisions to make in that
regard. Mr. Herald stated that the following are the recommendations submitted
by the Citizens Budget Committee as possible ways to cut budget expenses:
·   Eliminate Contracted Service for Zoning Administration and Bring this
Service In-House
Bring code enforcement in house and combine with the position of Parks and
Recreation Director, and can be handled by one individual. It is the
committee’s position and feeling this department would be placed under a
Department of Public Services in the future with an estimated savings of
$30,000.00.
·   Eliminate the Position of Senior Center Director
Eliminate the Senior Center Director position. While the Senior Center was a
noble idea, the committee looks at it as a failed experiment and needs drastic
changes. The committee feels that volunteers could handle managing the Center
on a day-to-day basis. The city would continue to be responsible for the debt
and insurance on the building, but all other costs would be the responsibility
of the Senior Board. The city would be responsible for all costs for events
that use the facility for city business. The committee suggests that City
Officials meet with the Senior Center Board to determine an acceptable
percentage between senior and city activities. The city would stand ready to
provide assistance to the Senior Board if they fall short of the ability to
meet their financial commitment. The Senior Board should have a date for which
it fulfills its obligation to the city. If the Board cannot fulfill the
obligation, the city would then have the option to take control of the
facility. Estimated savings would be $51,000.00.
·   Outsource the Property Tax Billing to Eliminate Administration Clerical
Positions
The committee recommends that the billing and collection of all property taxes
be outsourced. By doing this, one clerical position could be eliminated in the
Administration Office. The committee understands that would leave three
employees in the administration department and recommends that one of the
employees would spend twenty hours per week assisting the police department and
twenty hours per week at the city office. Estimated savings would be
$50,000.00.
·   Sale of Park & Ride Municipal Parking Lot
The immediate sale of the Park and Ride parcel and combine the sale of both the
present city building and Park and Ride parcel at a reduced purchase price for
economic development. The Park & Ride would then be moved to the town center
where TANK agrees that it would be a safer place to pick up and drop off.
Estimated revenue for the sale of the Park and Ride would be $75,000.00 with an
increase of $10,000.00 annually.
·   Implementation of Parks Usage Fees
The committee suggests that a fee be assessed to all participants using city
parks for recreational activities. Estimated annual increase would be
$20,000.00.
·   Establish a Modified Zero Based Budgeting System
The committee recommends using a modified zero based budget using actual
figures based on known costs for each line item. All other costs would be
placed in the budget after extensive research and documentation for items and
needs of each department. Estimated cost would be $50,000.00.
·   Road Repairs
The committee recommends that all major road repairs only be done by revenue
allocated by the state and perform only minimum maintenance to the road system
of the city. The committee recommends the hiring of a city engineer to do an
immediate study of the city streets and prioritize them according to repairs
needed. This would assist the city on estimated road repairs in the future.
Estimated savings would be $250,000.00.
·   Public Works
Rename the Public Works Department to Public Services Department and hire a
Director of Public Services that has a financial and engineering background.
This would expand to provide more quality services to an effective and
efficient manner. This department would have responsibility for all areas of
the city over three to five years.
·   Elimination of Some Contracted Services
Contracted services are currently costing the city more than $150,000.00.
Included but not limited to be snow removal, mowing, small and medium blacktop
repairs, building and maintenance repairs, storm sewer repairs and electrical
work that could be brought in house. The committee has come up with an overall
cost savings of $556,000.00 for fiscal year 2005.
Council Response to Citizens Finance Committee Presentation
Council Member Behler stated it seems they have looked at changing or
eliminating staff in all departments but the police department. She asked if
the police department operation and budget was reviewed and was there any fluff
in it. Mr. Herald stated they did look at the police budget and compared it to
other cities in Northern Kentucky and the Committee felt the police budget was
in line or the same as other police departments. He stated they felt there were
no major areas that needed to be changed with the exception of sharing one of
the clerk positions.
Mr. Kudera stated the police department has a lot of area to cover
geographically and is effective with the amount of officers they have, and the
committee feels the police department needs to add one or two more officers to
the force. Council Member Behler asked if the committee had looked at the
Administration and Public Works staff, like they did the Police Department. Mr.
Herald stated the committee looked at the total staff for Administration and
Public Works Department and compared them with other cities. Council Member
Yeager stated she sees no method of handling the Senior Citizens Center without
a Director, other than volunteers. She stated volunteers could not detect
people going in and out of the Center at all times. She stated she felt the
Center needed a coordinator and what thought had the Committee given to that.
Mr. Herald stated their thoughts were that ultimately, it would fall under
Public Services to include Public Works and Parks. Mr. Kudera stated with the
new Municipal Building being so close, one of the city employees could open it,
close it and set up scheduling for events. He stated, like it or not, the
Senior Center is a significant part of the city’s financial problem. Council
Member Yeager asked where the $70,000.00 comes in for the Park and Ride. Mr.
Herald stated it would be for the sale of the property and an estimated
$10,000.00 yearly for payroll taxes that would be generated revenue.
Council Member Yeager asked what fees they were considering to Parks and
Recreation that could bring in estimated revenues of $20,000.00. Mr. Herald
stated a fee could be assessed on recreation leagues or different activities.
Council Member Yeager stated she thought the city would no longer need the fire
department building on Cox Road for Public Works to store equipment, once the
city moves to the new Municipal Center. Mr. Kudera stated it is against fire
codes to store that type of equipment in the same building that houses
personnel. Mayor Moriconi stated if Council decides to bring snow removal and
mowing in house, the city would need to continue to lease the facility on Cox
Road to house the equipment.
Council Member Yeager asked the Mayor if Kenton County has submitted a proposal
to outsource the city taxes. Mayor Moriconi stated he has not been advised yet.
He stated the city should know something by the May Council or Caucus Meetings.
Council Member Brinker stated he would just like the city to become more
efficient in the way it operates. He commented that he felt the committee
presented a lot of great ideas and did a great job.
Council Member Franzen thanked the finance committee and appreciated their
time. She asked if the grass cutting was brought in house and a Public Service
Director is hired, will the city need someone else to do the grass cutting or
will they use someone from that department. Mr. Herald stated the changes are
not going to happen overnight, but will gradually happen over a five-year
process. Council Member Franzen asked if the committee wants the city to hire a
Public Service Director now or in the future. Mr. Herald stated he feels it is
crucial to get someone in the position. He stated the position will have a lot
of responsibility and they have to understand the goals, which is to get the
same amount of services for less money or more services for the same amount of
money.
Council Member Franzen stated she is aware there are problems with the Senior
Center but is concerned with depending on volunteers to operate the Senior
Center. She stated volunteers cannot always be relied upon. Mr. Herald stated
the Senior Center would not be run by volunteers but would be under the
direction of the Public Services Director. Mr. Kudera stated one of the
services available to the Senior Center is Senior Services of Northern
Kentucky. He stated they will come in and set up the administrative procedures
and Northern Kentucky Area Development District will also assist in making this
a functional Senior Center. He stated this is also a Community Center and if
you want it to be only a Senior Center then you have to pay all the bills. He
stated the city is paying for the majority of the expenses now and the
committee feels it is a Community Center as well as a Senior Center. He stated
Independence has the only Senior Center in Northern Kentucky that is funded by
its city.
Mayor Moriconi asked Ms. Walton if she would like to be the spokesperson for
the Senior Citizens at the end of councils questioning. Ms. Walton stated she
would.
Council Member Franzen asked if the committee expects road repairs to come from
the current Municipal Road Aid Fund. Mr. Herald stated the money the city
receives from the state would be used for necessary repairs to keep them
operable with no major road repairs. Another Committee member, Cindy Dobias
stated the committee is suggesting the city needs to step back and analyze what
they’re doing instead of continuing the practice of increased spending. Mayor
Moriconi stated we are in the process of having the City Engineer do an update
on projected street repairs that are needed over the next few years. He stated
there would be street repairs funded by the state municipal road aid, but the
city will not be pledging $500,000.00 for street repairs like it has done in
the past.
Council Member Dupps asked what is “zero-based” budgeting. Mr. Herald stated
zero-based budgeting means you start from scratch and justify everything up
front annually. Mayor Moriconi stated that could be done internally and would
not need an ordinance to do that.
Regarding the Senior Center, Council Member Yeager stated for every three to
five grants you look at you are required to have the 501C3. She stated the
seniors were also promised access to the building from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
and would like it to remain that way.
Mr. Herald stated the recommendations lay out quite a few things in this
budget, which is a balanced budget. He stated one of the goals is to bring
mowing in house. He stated the city is spending $37,000.00 to have the grass
cut six months out of the year and the city could have an employee twelve
months out of the year that could help with snow removal, street repairs and
storm sewer maintenance. He stated there would be some up front cost with the
purchase of equipment.
Mayor Moriconi stated another thing he added to the budget was to bring the
Zoning Administration in house. He stated the city is paying Northern Kentucky
Area Planning $30,000.00 annually for three days a week. If we turn zoning over
to our Parks Director, we can have someone five days a week and save
$30,000.00. Council Member Behler stated she has concerns with bringing zoning
in house. She asked how the city can let go of someone that knows the zoning
ordinances and replace them with an employee who will be starting from ground
zero with no knowledge of zoning laws. She stated she lives in an older section
of the city and is surrounded by violations and she would be the first to
complain if they are not taken care of. She asked if the city could start
training the Parks and Recreation Director to work on the days our Zoning
Administrator is not in the city, which are Mondays and Fridays. City Attorney,
Jed Deters stated that he felt the zoning and code enforcement can be learned
and that he will be available to assist. Council Member Brinker stated if the
city attorney is willing to help with the transition, then it should be brought
in house. Chief Butler stated he has contacted Kentucky League of Cities and
they will be offering a training session that Nita Brake and Lt. Ed Bailey can
attend. Mayor Moriconi stated with all of the zoning violations in the city the
response time would be immediate, therefore providing a faster response.
Mayor Moriconi stated he left the Senior Director’s salary and position in the
proposed budget. He stated that eliminating this position is a major decision
and should be discussed by council in Executive Session.
Mayor Moriconi asked Ms. Walton if she would like to speak. Ms. Walton stated
in regards to volunteers operating the Senior Center they do not know all the
laws that apply to the operation of the Center. For example, when they are
cooking in the kitchen, only three people are allowed in there, per health
regulations. She stated there is a certain way they have to wash the dishes,
which are just a few of the rules and regulations they have to follow. She
stated they do not know what they would do if they did not have Joan Bowling to
direct them. She stated one person has to be in charge, not volunteers here and
there. She stated they want to begin the operation of a Bingo as a way to raise
funds, but does not know if they have received the okay yet from the state. She
stated the Senior Citizens are going to lose money on July 4th because another
committee wants to use the building. She stated she was advised at a meeting
that $7,000.00 has been approved for the purchase of two treadmills for the
Police Department. Chief Butler stated that money does not come out of any city
funds but a donation made by the Citizens Police Academy Alumni Association for
not only the police but for all of the city employees. Council Member Franzen
stated the Citizens Police Alumni Association raised that money by having
fundraisers. Mayor Moriconi stated the money that was raised for the treadmills
would be the same as the seniors having a bingo and raising money for them to
use as they see fit in the Senior Center.
Council Member Yeager stated the seniors tried to work with both Northern
Kentucky Senior Services and the Northern Kentucky Area Development District on
how they could get the free lunches and $2.00 lunches everyday and they would
not approve it. Mr. Kudera stated that was because of your rules and
regulations and your failure to conform to their requirements. Council Member
Yeager replied if you don’t conform to every need Northern Kentucky Senior
Services want, you do not get approved and that the city, the seniors or the
director did not like that.
Executive Session
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to go into Executive Session to discuss
personnel matters per KRS 61.810 section (f). Council Member Franzen moved,
with second by Council Member Dupps. The motion was passed with all ayes.
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to go out of Executive Session. Council
Member Franzen made the motion with a second by Council Member Yeager. The
motion was passed with all ayes.
Return to Regular Session
Mayor Moriconi called the meeting back to order. Mayor Moriconi advised that
the Senior Citizens Director position would remain in the budget beginning 7/1/
04 thru 6/30/05. He stated that starting fiscal year 7/1/05 thru 6/30/06 the
city will pay two thirds of the Senior Director salary and will keep backing
out 1/3 every fiscal year for three years until the Senior Board of Directors
provides all funding for the Senior Director salary. City Attorney Jed K.
Deters stated it was a consensus of council and not an official vote.
Mr. Kudera stated he apologized if he has offended anyone but he must use the
word “tuff’’, because this is not healthy for the city.
NEW BUSINESS
Proposed Ordinance Amending the 2003-04 Budget
Mayor Moriconi stated the proposed ordinance will amend revenues for grants
that have been received. Mrs. Terry Hudson, Finance Director stated the
amendment is needed for grant funds the police department has received that was
not in the original budget, along with additional expenses for snow removal,
and a waste collection rate increase. Mayor Moriconi stated if council has no
questions this will come up for a first reading at the May 3rd Council Meeting.
Proposed Ordinance Adopting the 2004-05 Budget
Mayor Moriconi stated the proposed budget for 2004/05 is a balanced one and
thanked Chief Butler, City Clerk Patricia Taney and Terry Hudson, Finance
Director for working on it. He stated the main thing in this budget was the
Senior Center Director position. He stated zoning and grass cutting has been
added. He stated the Public Works Department consists of adding two employees
and that the city needs to grow the department or eliminate it and outsource
all public works services. He stated he has budgeted two part time workers so
payment of benefits would not be required. Chief Butler stated it essentially
doubles the size of the Public Works Department to work twenty to twenty-five
hours a week with no benefits to be paid. He stated they will help to do more
street repairs and grass cutting and take over a little bit more of the snow
removal. He stated the Public Works Department cannot continue to exist with
two employees in a city this size with two hundred fifty streets and adding
more everyday. Mayor Moriconi reiterated again this is a three to five year
plan and will not happen over night.
Council Member Yeager asked what the total amount that was paid to Malco Lawn
Services this past fiscal year. Mayor Moriconi stated it was $37,000.00.
Council Member Yeager stated Malco does such a great job and the city will now
have to buy mowing equipment, a trailer and a truck to pull the equipment.
Mayor Moriconi stated lawn-mowing equipment has been budgeted in the new 2004/
05 fiscal budget. Council Member Dupps asked if the new public works employees
would be part time or a combination. Chief Butler stated it would be a
combination depending on what time of the year it is. He stated the hours could
be an internal management position.
Joann Cobble asked the Mayor if there would be a summit budget meeting
scheduled this year. Mayor Moriconi stated there would not be. He stated they
are an elected group and the residents don’t need to worry about it. He stated
at some point, the elected officials have to do what they were elected to do.
City Attorney, Jed Deters stated Mrs. Cobble has an opportunity to voice her
opinion at the May Council Meeting before the budget is voted on. Mayor
Moriconi stated he would never do another budget summit meeting as long as he
is Mayor. He stated he does not know of any other city that gets public opinion
on what they should or shouldn’t do.
Proposed Ordinance Establishing the Trash Assessment Rate/Effective 7/1/04 thru
6/30/06
Mayor Moriconi stated this is a contract renewal opting for a two year
extension. He stated this would come up for a final reading at the May Council
Meeting.
Proposed Ordinance Adopting an Employee Pay Plan
Mayor Moriconi asked if Council had any questions. Council Member Yeager asked
if the play plan was a certain percentage over last years pay plan. Chief
Butler advised the minimum and maximum end of each range was increased by two-
percent. Mayor Moriconi stated this would come up for a first reading in May.
City Attorney Report
City Attorney, Jed Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Moriconi stated Independence along with Taylor Mill would be hosting the
Business Government Exchange Dinner on May 19, 2004 to be held at the Senior
Center, which is hosted by the Chamber of Commerce. He encouraged council to
attend. City Clerk, Pat Taney stated the Chamber of Commerce would like all of
council to be there along with the commissioners from Taylor Mill and the
businesses from both Independence and Taylor Mill.
Business Recognition
Mayor Moriconi asked Council Member Franzen to recognize a business for the May
Council Meeting.
Mayor Moriconi stated the Independence branch of the Kenton County Library is
looking to relocate outside of the city and encouraged everyone to attend the
hearing to voice your opinion on keeping the library in Independence.
Council Member Dupps asked how the damage occurred to the park sign at Staggs
Park. Mayor Moriconi stated the sign at Sterling Staggs Park was hit by an
intoxicated driver and asked Chief Butler to expand. Chief Butler stated the
driver was intoxicated and charged with a DUI but had expired insurance. He
stated estimates are being obtained and hopefully they will get a conviction so
restitution can be made to the city.
Adjournment
There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:00 p.m.
                        ________________________________
                        Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H.Taney, City Clerk
_________________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Asst. City Clerk
May 3, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May
3, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant of Grace Community Church
gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Carol Franzen had chosen the
Independence Wendy’s Restaurant as the recipient of the Business of the Month.
He presented Jim Rogers with a plaque of recognition.
Approval of the Minutes of the April 5, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the April 5,
2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Behler so moved, with a second
from Council Member Dupps. One amendment was noted by Mayor Moriconi and roll
call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the April 19, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the April 19,
2004 caucus council meeting. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second from
Council Member Franzen. Mayor Moriconi noted a couple of amendments and roll
call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 to accept the minutes as
amended.
Presentation by Citizens Police Academy Alumni
5.   Dave Millward, President of the Citizens Police Academy Alumni was present
as the spokesperson for the alumni and to present Mayor Moriconi on behalf of
the city a gift to the police department. Mr. Millward stated the ninety-member
alumni held several fundraisers over a two-year period that enabled them to
donate this gift of $7,200 to be used to purchase exercise equipment. He stated
the alumni will be holding a rummage sale this spring as well as having a
fundraising booth at the July 4th Celebration this summer and is active in
assisting the police department with their annual golf outing and preparing
meals for various civic meetings. Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Millward and the
entire alumni, many of whom were present. He stated this all-volunteer group’s
fundraising efforts has saved the city money. Chief Butler also thanked the
alumni on behalf of the police department. He stated they have assisted the
department in various ways and he appreciated all they do. He also commented
that the exercise equipment would be available for use by all city employees.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No. 2004-O-08 – Amending Ordinance No. 3-5-79 Regarding City Attorney
Fees for Lien Enforcement – 2nd Reading
6.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-08 amending Ordinance No. 3-5-79 that establishes the attorney fees for
actions enforcing liens. City Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance.
7.   Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-08; seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2004-R-03 – Partially Accepting KCPC Text Amendment
Recommendation Relating to Self-Storage Facilities & Parking Garages
8.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2004-R-03 that would
reject in part a recommendation by the Kenton County Planning Commission
relating to self-storage facilities and parking garages. City Attorney, Jed
Deters read Resolution No. 2004-R-03. He explained the application for the text
amendment was made by resident, Martin Neltner to add to the zoning text the
addition of the use of self-storage facilities in the NSC zone. He advised that
the recommendation of the Planning Commission was to deny self-storage
facilities and warehouses as conditional uses in the NSC zone, and to permit a
text amendment to add parking garages as a permitted use in the NSC zone. Mr.
Deters advised council that Resolution No. 2004-R-03 addresses the council’s
desire to partially accept and partially deny the KCPC recommendation of
application 1640R, thereby upholding the disapproval of self-storage facilities
and warehouses as a conditional use in the NSC zone and disapproving their
recommendation to add parking garages as a permitted use in the NSC zone. He
stated this resolution would take the place of a proposed ordinance, which had
a first reading at the November 3, 2003 council meeting.
9.   Council Member Dupps moved to adopt Resolution No. 2004-R-03, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Council Member Yeager questioned the language of
paragraph two, stating that she did not feel it was clear. Mr. Deters provided
further explanation. There being no further discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Discussion of Bids Received for the Sale of the Municipal Park & Ride Lot
10.   Mayor Moriconi announced that only one bid was received for the sale of
the city’s park and ride lot located at 5290 Madison Pike. He stated the
bidder, James Bertram submitted a bid price of $60,000. Mayor Moriconi
entertained a motion to accept the bid and sell the lot to Mr. Bertram. Council
Member Dupps asked the zone of the property. Council Member Bushong asked if
the bid was over or under the appraised amount. Mayor Moriconi stated that at
$60,000, the bid amount was slightly under the appraisal of $67,700. He stated
that he felt the bid was a realistic amount, as the developer will have the
expense of relocating sewer and other utility lines. In responding to Council
Member Dupps question regarding the current zone, Mr. Deters advised that the
developer might need a zone change. Mayor Moriconi commented that now is the
time to sell this property for development. Council Member Bushong commented
that he understands there is a sewer easement road on the lot, which must be
preserved. Mayor Moriconi stated that the bidder is aware of the easement and
that he will be required to provide access. Council Member Brinker commented
that he thought the bids would be in the $50,000 range so he is pleased with
the $60,000 bid considering the preparation work that will be necessary to
relocate the utility lines. He stated the budget is in need of the revenue that
will be generated by this sale and the city is collaborating with the Town
Center to relocate the TANK Park and ride facility. Council Member Bushong
asserted that any agreement with the Deters Company be a binding permanent one.
He stated that he hates to relocate the park and ride facility, but if the
decision is to move it, then he would like an official agreement in place. Mr.
Deters agreed that the city should seek an irrevocable lease with the Town
Center.
11.   Council Member Brinker asked if TANK was in agreement with the relocation
of the facility. Chief Butler advised TANK has requested a 120-day notice from
the Town Center if, sometime in the future, they would rescind the agreement.
Council Member Brinker asked if the city has received any negative feedback
regarding the plans to relocate. Chief Butler stated he has not heard any
negative comments, but did get a positive e-mail message from the city’s
website. Council Member Yeager stated she has heard negative comments. Mayor
Moriconi stated he received a comment that indicated the TANK stop would be
safer taken off of Route 17 (Madison Pike).
12.   Council Member Bushong moved to accept the bid from James Bertram in the
amount of $60,000 for the purchase of the park and ride lot located at 5290
Madison Pike and authorize Mayor Moriconi to enter into a contract for the sale
of the property; seconded by Council Member Franzen. Council Member Yeager
asked how the city would utilize the $60,000. Mayor Moriconi replied it would
be put into the general fund. Council Member Yeager asked that it be used to
pay down the mortgage debt on the Senior Center building. Council Member Dupps
commented there might be expenses associated with relocating the bus shelter.
Mayor Moriconi asked council if there was a consensus to use the revenue to pay
down the debt. No one voiced objection to Council Member Yeager’s suggestion.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Council Member Yeager clarified her
vote by stating that she was voting yes only if this revenue would be used to
pay down the debt on the Senior Center. Motion carried 6-0. Council Member
Dupps stated that the TANK bus riders should be given adequate notice of the
relocation of the facility.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 2003/04 Budget – 1st Reading
13.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that would amend the current, 2003/04 fiscal year budget. Mr. Deters
read the proposed budget. No discussion ensued.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing a Trash Assessment Rate Effective from 7-1-04
through 6-30-05 – 1st Reading
14.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that would establish a trash assessment rate for the period of July
1, 2004 through June 30, 2005. He stated the new rate would be $105.84, an
increase of $5.04. There being no discussion, Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance.
Executive Session
15.   Before moving on to the next agenda item regarding the proposed ordinance
adopting a 2004/05 budget, Mayor Moriconi requested a motion to enter into
executive session for the purposing of discussing a personnel issue. Council
Member Franzen moved for an executive session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810
(f), with second by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
16.   Council Member Brinker moved to return to regular session; seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2004/05 Budget – 1st Reading
17.   Mayor Moriconi stated that he was pleased to present to council for a
first reading a proposed ordinance adopting a budget for the 2004/05 fiscal
year. He thanked the members of the Citizens Budget Committee for working so
hard on the budget recommendations they presented to council. He stated that
Committee would now continue to function as an Economic Development Committee,
to be chaired by Darrell Herald.
18.   Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance adopting the 2004/05 budget.
19.   Council Member Yeager stated that she did not feel it would be practical
to purchase mowing equipment and other related lawn maintenance equipment this
year. Council Member Behler commented that while she feels it is necessary to
increase the public works staff, she has concerns with bringing the grass
cutting in house. She stated she spoke to Jeff Smith, the Public Works crew
leader who is concerned it will be difficult to find good reliable part time
laborers, since no benefits are provided for part time help. And that in fact
it may be more of a burden on him, if his department spends all their time
mowing grass in the summer months. She stated that even Malco Lawn Service, who
the city currently contracts with for this maintenance, expressed difficulty in
obtaining good reliable laborers and he offers full time work. Council Member
Brinker asked if the lawn equipment would be a lease-purchase, so that the
equipment could be returned if the part time staffing does not work out. Chief
Butler replied no, that the equipment would be purchased outright, but if the
city did work out a lease-purchase agreement with the bank, there might be
penalties involved if the city would back out of the agreement. Council Member
Yeager commented there would still be the difficulty in hiring good part time
laborers. Council Member Brinker stated he felt there are plenty of people
looking for jobs. Council Member Behler expressed concern how it would be
handled if, after a short period of time, the situation was not working well.
She asked where the new public works equipment would be stored when no in use.
Mayor Moriconi replied the equipment would be stored at the Cox Road facility.
Council Member Brinker stated he would like the Citizens Budget Committee to
supply council with the supporting data used to recommend that grass cutting
would be more cost effective if done in house. Council Member Yeager commented
that the city tried bringing this job in house before and it didn’t work out.
Council Member Bushong asked why it didn’t work out. Council Member Yeager
explained the city had used other contractors in the past that did not perform
as well as Malco. Council Member Brinker stated it was never brought in house.
He expressed concern that in future years, with the addition of a new park, the
expense of park and other lawn maintenance will continue to increase.
20.   Council Member Bushong asked if the purchase of a new public works truck
was in this budget. Chief Butler commented that Barry Malott of Malco Lawn
Services does a great job, but adding two part time employees to the Public
Works department is about growing the department, not just about saving
dollars. He stated he feels that adding two part time employees to cut grass in
the summer months and help out with the snow removal in the winter months will
cost no more than is currently being expended to outsource this type of work.
He stated he was confused why Jeff Smith would feel adding two additional
employees would be a burden to him. Chief Butler suggested at the very least
the city should hire one additional full time employee and purchase one more
truck for the public works department. He stated the city is adding more
streets each year and more patching is required each year. Council Member
Behler stated that while she agrees that the public works needs additional
staffing, she also looks at it as increasing the level of responsibility onto
that department.
21.   Council Member Franzen asked if hiring one full time employee and
purchasing one truck would keep the proposed budget balanced. Chief Butler
stated the budget would remain balanced, as it would just require moving some
figures from one line item to another. Council Member Franzen suggested the
addition of one full time employee could assist with snow removal help in the
winter. Mayor Moriconi advised the city currently has a 75/25 split arrangement
with Kenton County for snow removal; they maintain 75% of the city streets with
the city’s two public works employees handling the other 25% of the streets. He
stated that as the number of city streets increases, there will be a need to
offset the growth. Council Member Bushong commented that he feels the city
should proceed with plans to purchase another public works truck and another
snow blade for the winter months. Chief butler commented that the cost of a
snow blade has been calculated in the proposed budget. Council Member Franzen
commented that she feels it was a good idea to bring the grass maintenance in
house, but that the timing may not be right. She stated that adding staff to
the public works department is a first step to eventually handling the
responsibility of all the lawn and park maintenance in future years. Council
Member Brinker concurred with Council Member Franzen.
22.   Mayor Moriconi stated the grass cutting issue is resolved for now, as
everyone has had two weeks to review the proposed budget. He commented that the
proposal to bring the grass cutting in house was not meant to suggest that
Malco Lawn Service is not doing a good job for the city, quite the contrary.
Council Member Bushong stated that he favored hiring one additional full time
public works employee while continuing to outsource the lawn maintenance for
now.
23.   Chief Butler commented this change will just require shifting numbers
from one line item to another and will have no material affect on the proposed
budget.
24.   Council Member Dupps asked if the outsourcing of the property tax billing
and collection has been determined. Mayor Moriconi stated he has not received
information regarding this from the county yet and hoped to have something to
report by the caucus meeting. Council Member Bushong stated he has reviewed
this and would welcome the possibility of having this revenue collected by the
county. Mayor Moriconi stated the purpose of outsourcing this collection would
be to save money.
25.   There being no further discussion regarding the proposed budget, Mr.
Deters suggested a motion would be in order to amend the first reading. Council
Member Bushong so moved, with second by Council Member Behler. Motion carried
with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Pay Plan for the F/Y 2004/05 – 1st Reading
26.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would adopt
an employee pay plan for the 2004/05 fiscal year. Mr. Deters gave a first
reading of the ordinance. No discussion ensued.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
27.   Chief Butler reported that the Public Works department is making repairs
to Richardson Road. He also reported that he would like to have the City
Engineer prepare a street assessment proposal, wherein they will inventory
every street and make recommendations for future maintenance/repairs. Chief
Butler advised this will be a long process, taking about seven months for the
engineer to complete. He stated he would like to pay the engineer for this
project out of the current budget. Mayor Moriconi advised the city currently
has forty-two miles of streets. Council Member Dupps commented that the former
city engineer had prepared a similar street assessment and wondered if the city
was currently working from that report. Chief Butler stated that he does not
believe the previous report had been updated on an annual basis. After a brief
discussion, the consensus of council was to obtain a proposal from the city
engineer.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
28.   No Report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
29.   Mayor Moriconi reported that the city has been contacted by Burgess &
Niple on behalf of Cingular Wireless with a proposal to lease a 100 x 100 sq.
ft. area at Sterling Staggs Park. He stated they would like to install a 150
foot cell tower in the southwest corner of the park. Council Member Franzen
stated she would recuse herself from the discussion on this matter, as her
church, Independence Christian on Madison Pike, has been approached with a
similar offer and are in the process of considering it. Council Member Bushong
commented that he heard four other cites are being considered and he opposes
the idea of locating a cell tower in the park. Council Members Behler and
Yeager agreed with Council Member Bushong. Council Member Dupps stated he felt
a cell tower would be too obtrusive in the park. Since the general consensus of
council was to deny this proposal by Cingular Wireless, Mayor Moriconi
requested the City Clerk to contact Burgess & Niple to advise them the city is
not interested in leasing space for a cell tower.
30.   Mayor Moriconi advised that Independence will host the Kenton County
Fiscal Court Town Hall Meeting which is scheduled for May 18, 2004 at 7:00 p.m.
in the Courthouse. He encouraged the council members to attend this meeting. A
comment was made that May 18th is Election Day and wondered if the meeting
would still take place. Council Member Behler urged registered voters to go to
the polls in this primary election to cast their votes for city council
candidates. She stated the council race is non-partisan election and there was
some confusion two years ago when many voters, who were registered as
independents, were turned away at the polls, but this should not occur this
year.
Adjournment
31.   There being no further business, a motion to adjourn was made by Council
Member Dupps and seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:10 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky.
May 17, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 17,
2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager answered roll call.
Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Mike Harmon, 81 Sherwood Drive, Independence, Kentucky addressed council
regarding a proposal to set up a mobile concession to sell Hawaiian shaved ice
cones at Memorial Park and Sterling Staggs Park. He stated the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission has advised him that mobile concessions are
not permitted on private property, and since the city is exempt from zoning
laws, he thought the parks would be an ideal location for this type of
concession. He stated that Hawaiian ice is a great summer treat for families.
He stated that he and his wife operate Special Occasions Catering, which is
licensed and insured, and that the mobile concessions is just one of the
services they offer. He assured council that his workers would inspect the park
area each day and dispose of any litter resulting from the concession.
Mr. Harmon stated that he also hopes to implement a program that will help fund
the local youth sports organizations. He stated he would give the parents and
supporters of the sports organizations the opportunity to help work the
concession and in return earn a share of the profits to help fund the football,
baseball and soccer teams. He stated he would also like to provide concession
at the upcoming summer concerts at the Memorial Park Amphitheater.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Harmon if he wanted authorization to set up the mobile
concession at both Sterling Staggs Park and Memorial Park. He stated yes, at
least initially, so that he could determine which location would be best. Mayor
Moriconi asked what he would charge for the Hawaiian ice. Mr. Harmon stated he
would charge around $2.00 - $2.50 which is the average rate, but that part of
the concept is that a portion of the charge will be going to the sports
organizations. Council Member Behler asked if the fund raising for the sports
teams was the primary reason for the mobile concession. Mr. Harmon stated no;
that the mobile concession will be an extension of his catering business and he
is unsure how profitable it will be.
City Attorney, Jed Deters advised council that he is inclined to think that
granting a concession/vending agreement for profit on city property is a
situation that should be bid out so that others have the same opportunity.
Council Member Behler asked if the city did not bid this service out could the
city be open to a lawsuit. Mr. Deters stated it could be a possibility. Council
Member Yeager commented that she thought it might fall under the $20,000
bidding regulation. Council Member Dupps stated that he felt the city would
only be open to a lawsuit if they denied other mobile concessions the same type
of agreement. Mr. Harmon stated the he was not asking for exclusive rights to
provide concessions in the parks. Mr. Deters stated that he felt bidding out
concession services was the easiest thing to do.
Council Member Bushong asked if the ball teams would earn a specific percentage
of the profits produced by the concession. Mr. Harmon stated that teams who
have supporters work the concession would receive 20% of the net profits.
Mayor Moriconi commented that during Amphitheater performances, it could become
a problem if other vendors would want to set up. Mr. Harmon stated he has not
purchased the mobile concession trailer yet and it may be June or July before
he could be in operation.
Council Member Behler asked how the city could oblige Mr. Harmon and protect
the city’s interests. Mr. Deters advised the city could consider a zoning text
amendment to allow these types of businesses. Council Member Franzen suggested
starting the bid process while concurrently applying for a text amendment.
Mayor Moriconi commented that he thinks a mobile concession is a great idea and
would like to find a way to permit this without a lot of bureaucracy. Council
Member Bushong asked how often Mr. Harmon would set up the mobile concession.
Mr. Harmon stated that he would like to be open from mid-week through the
weekend.
The consensus of council was to temporarily allow Mr. Harmon to set up the
mobile concession at the two parks, with the city applying for a text amendment
during the interim. Mr. Deters stated he would draft a resolution for council
to consider at the June 7, 2004 council meeting. Council Member Behler asked if
the city would ask for compensation from Mr. Harmon. Council Member Brinker
stated that if the city does receive compensation that the revenue should be
directed into the Parks and Recreation budget. Mayor Moriconi advised the city
could consider compensation later.
Discussion of Proposed 2004-05 Budget – Final Review and Comments
Mayor Moriconi presented a final review of the proposed 2004-05 budget. He
stated that the budget ordinance is scheduled for a second reading and adopting
at the June 7, 2004 council meeting.
Council Member Dupps expressed concern that the courthouse rent line item had
zero budgeted funds and since it looks like the construction of the new
Municipal Center will not be completed by July 1, thought that the budget
should reflect two or three months of rent.
Council Member Yeager questioned the Public Works line item for the lease of a
dump truck. Chief Butler explained that this item has to be shown as both a
revenue and expense. He stated the full estimated cost of the truck will be
$54,000, but the city will only expend $18,000 each year for the term of the
three-year lease purchase loan.
Council Member Bushong asked if the mowing equipment that was originally
proposed has been withdrawn. Chief Butler stated that all the mowing equipment
has been deleted, since the proposal to bring the grass mowing in house has
been rejected.
Council Member Franzen asked if the Senior Center Director salary should be
eliminated since the Director has resigned. Mayor Moriconi advised that he
wanted to keep the salary in the proposed budget until a decision is made about
the Director position. Council Member Behler asked if the mayor intended to
hire another Director. Mayor Moriconi advised that Recreation Director, Nita
Brake would temporarily assume the duties of the Senior Director until a
permanent situation is decided. He advised that it may be difficult to fill the
position since the city in recent months informed the Senior Board of Directors
that the city intended to relinquish full financial responsibility of this
position to the Board over the next three years.
There being no further questions, Mayor Moriconi advised the budget ordinance
would be presented at the June 7, 2004 council meeting.
Review Bids Received for the Resurfacing of Thomas and Dalewood Drives
Mayor Moriconi presented the City Engineer’s correspondence and spreadsheet
regarding the five bids received for the resurfacing of Thomas Drive and
Dalewood Drive. He stated that the street repair bids have been coming in lower
than estimated which will enable the city to repair more street than expected.
Chief Butler stated that the City Engineer is recommending that the bid be
awarded to Barrett Paving who submitted a low bid of $67,120.00. Council Member
Behler commented that she was surprised at the wide range from a high bid of
$117,540.00 to the low of $67,120.00. Mr. Deters stated that often times the
smaller companies need the work and are willing to work for less money. Council
Member Bushong asked if a performance check would be done by the engineer.
Chief Butler stated yes, that the engineer would do periodic quality checks on
the work being performed. Mr. Deters advised that the company that is awarded
the bid, be it a small company or large, is required to follow the bid specs
and it is the engineer’s job to oversee that.
Chief Butler advised that council will be asked to authorize a contract with
CDS Engineers for a five-year street repair projection. He also advised that
repairs to Walnut Hall Drive have been let for bids.
Mayor Moriconi stated that he would like to use the remaining street repair
funds toward the installation of sidewalks in the downtown area. Chief Butler
stated that the Public Works staff would be able to supply the labor.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
No report.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Dupps suggested the city sponsor a city-wide yard sale in
September. He stated the city could advertise the event. Council seemed open to
this suggestion.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Business of the Month - Mayor Moriconi advised that Council Member Yeager would
select the business of the month for June and asked that she advise the City
Clerk of her selection prior to the June 7th meeting.
Sale of the City Administration Building - Mayor Moriconi advised council that
the city is in receipt of a contract to purchase the city administration
building. He stated that Mr. Eric Deters is offering the city $260,000 for the
building. The city attorney advised that council could ratify this purchase to
offer at the June 7th council meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member Franzen and
seconded by Council Member Brinker to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:52 p.m.
                     _________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 7, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June
7, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant of Grace Community Church
gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Yeager had chosen Malco
Services as the recipient of the Business of the Month. He presented owner,
Barry Malott with a plaque of recognition and stated the city appreciated his
business. Mr. Malott thanked Mayor Moriconi and council for the honor and
stated he has lived in Independence all his life and is proud to call it home.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 3, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the May 3,
2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second
from Council Member Franzen. Amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the May 17, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the May 17,
2004 caucus council meeting. Council Member Behler so moved, with second from
Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 to accept the minutes as presented.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Pat Walton, 2610 Harris Road, Independence addressed council regarding
several issues relating to the Senior Center. She informed them that the Senior
Center Director had not been notified that the seniors would not have use of
the Senior Center for their fundraising events during the July 4th Celebration.
She stated this could affect the seniors fundraising plans, which have been in
place for several months.
6.   Ms. Walton also commented that several seniors were offended by Jim
Kudera’s remarks at the May caucus meeting. She stated that many of the seniors
feel the operation of the Center getting more political than they can handle.
She stated they feel they are being overrun and they want to continue with
their fundraising.
7.   Ms. Walton expressed concern that she heard the grant funds the city
received for the Senior Center were used for the general fund of the city and
not paid on the Senior Center building debt. She stated she is concerned that
the money is not being handled property. She stated the seniors are worried
they will loose the Center due to a lack of funds.
8.   In closing, Ms. Walton stated that it was announced at the last Senior
Board meeting that the commencement of a Bingo and the selling of tear-offs
would be postponed. She stated the seniors are concerned about this
postponement as they feel this would be moneymaking venture for the Center.
9.   Mayor Moriconi asked Chief Butler to respond to Ms. Walton’s concerns.
Chief Butler stated that there is no truth to the rumor that the Center will be
closed due to lack of funds. Chief Butler and Mayor Moriconi advised they were
not aware of the Board’s decision to postpone the Bingo and other gaming
fundraising.
10.   Council Member Brinker asked Chief Butler if the seniors had received
written notification that the Center would be used for a private party on the
fourth. Chief Butler stated that the Mayor and him met with the Chairman of the
Senior Center Board to advise him of the Special Events Committee’s plan to
hold a private party for the sponsors of the July 4th Celebration. Ms. Walton
stated the seniors did not learn of the Committee’s plans until recently, after
they had spent months in planning their fundraising events, and then they were
told they would not have use of the building. Chief Butler stated the Chairman
was told of the plans well in advance of July 4th; he does not known when the
Senior Director was informed.
11.   Mayor Moriconi responded to Ms. Walton’s assertion regarding the loan
proceeds for the construction of the Senior Center. He stated that the rumor
that the funds were misused is a big misconception. He also commented that if
the city was going to abandon the Senior Center, that it would have been closed
by now. He stated the city does not have plans to close the Center. Ms. Walton
voiced her concern about the Board postponing the commencement of the Bingo,
which was the senior’s primary way to raise funds for the continued operation
of the Center. Council Member Behler commented that the Bingo issue needs to be
resolved. Council Member Yeager stated that the Board has not been issued a
gaming license from the state yet. There was a brief discussion about the
gaming license. The City Clerk stated that the license application has been
returned on a couple of occasions due to requests for more information, such as
budget and other financial information and information needed regarding the
Board members.
12.   Council Member Bushong asked if it was too late for the seniors to
proceed with their plans for the fourth. Ms. Walton said they would not be able
to do all they normally do, but that they would open the Center on July 2nd and
hold a quilt raffle. Council Member Yeager stated the seniors will also sell
drinks and hotdogs and metts on July 2nd.
13.   Council Member Brinker stated he would like the Senior Board members to
attend a caucus meeting. He feels the Council Members should meet with the
Board members and work together. Council Member Franzen asked if the Board was
a requirement to keep the 501-3(c) status. Council Member Yeager replied yes.
Mayor Moriconi encouraged the council members to attend the Senior Board
meetings. Council Member Yeager stated the meetings are the fourth Tuesday of
each month at 8:30 a.m. at the Senior Center.
14.   In closing, Mayor Moriconi commented that the seniors have the building
available to them every day of the week, and he stated it shouldn’t be a
problem for the Special Events Committee to have use of the building for one
evening, July 3rd, from 5-10 pm.
15.   Vic Morrison, 100 Roselawn, Independence, Ky. commented that the primary
election, with sixteen candidates for city council, made history as a record-
setting number of interested residents for a council seat. He thanked Council
Member Brinker for acting as an interim council member, when Jim Ellison
vacated his seat. He stated that even though he did not win a position on the
November general election ballot, he should be proud of his time spent on the
council. Mr. Morrison also complimented Council Member Yeager for all she has
done; stating that she has proven she cares about people, and he complimented
the entire city council for their efforts.
16.   Council Member Brinker thanked everyone who voted for him in the primary
election and stated that it has been a great honor to act as an interim council
member. He stated he would continue to volunteer his time in other ways to make
this city a great community.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-09 – Adopting a Trash Assessment Rate – 2nd Reading
17.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O- 09 that would adopt a trash assessment rate of $105.84. City Attorney,
Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance.
18.   Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-09, seconded
by Council Member Dupps. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-10 – Amending 2003/04 Budget Ordinance No. 2003-O-06 - 2nd
Reading
19.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-10 that would amend the 2003/04 Budget Ordinance No. 2003-O-06. City
Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance.
20.   Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-10, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-11 – Adopting the 2004/05 Budget - 2nd Reading
21.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-11 that would adopt a city budget for the 2004/05 fiscal year. City
Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance. Council Members Dupps and
Bushong complimented the city staff for their involvement on the proposed
budget. Mayor Moriconi concurred and added that he was pleased with the efforts
of the staff.
22.   Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-11, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-12 – Adopting an Employee Personnel & Pay Classification
Plan - 2nd Reading
23.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-12 that would adopt an employee personnel and pay classification plan.
City Attorney, Jed Deters read the proposed ordinance. Council Member Franzen
noted there was only one authorized position of laborer for the Public Works
Department. She stated since the proposed budget includes the hiring of another
laborer she felt that the plan should reflect two instead of one authorized
position. Council Member Yeager stated the new employee would have the same
title of laborer. Council Member Brinker asked if making this change would have
an effect on the second reading. Mr. Deters stated it does not have a
significant effect.
24.   Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-12, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Request for Annexation by Freedom Park LLC
25.   Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mike Duncan, attorney for Diversified
Builders and Freedom Park LLC.
26.   Mr. Duncan addressed council with a request for annexation and rezoning
of approximately fifty-six acres located at 11527 Wilson Road. He stated that
this property would be the next phase of development of the Freedom Park
subdivision, which is located entirely within the city boundaries. He stated
the developers plan to purchase the fifty-six acres from Margaret Mullins,
which is currently not within the city limits. Mr. Duncan advised that since
this development will be an extension of the Freedom Trail subdivision that it
makes sense to request the city to annex this property. He stated the
developer’s layout plan for the fifty-six acres proposes 158 lots, most 70-80
foot with some of the lots even larger than 70-80 foot and a 2.8 per net acre
density. He stated they are requesting a R-1D zone, which would give the
developer flexibility while not adversely affecting the theme of the Freedom
Trail subdivision. Mr. Duncan advised the R-1D zone would permit the builders
to offer a more diverse community and present a product to empty nesters who do
not want a large lot to maintain. Mr. Duncan advised the development would not
contain any manufactured, duplex or slab homes and they would range in price
from $170,000 to $250,000. He stated the smaller lots would allow the buyer to
put the majority of their purchase dollars into the house versus the lot.
27.   Mr. Duncan advised that KRS100.209 (1) permits the city to annex the
unincorporated territory and amend the zoning map (rezone) simultaneously. He
stated the developers have contracted with Ms. Mullins and would like to
proceed in making application to the Kenton County Planning Commission right
away. He stated the deadline to make application is Wednesday. Mr. Duncan
advised the annexation/map amendment would require two ordinances and if the
city council agrees to support the developer’s request to move forward with
this process, would like to propose a first reading of the ordinances at the
July council meeting. He stated that he is requesting the city proceed with the
voluntary annexation process tonight and then ask the Kenton County Planning
Commission recommend the appropriate zoning for the property upon annexation.
28.   Mayor Moriconi stated that Freedom Trail Drive could be continued out to
Wilson Road. Council Member Yeager asked if this development would be providing
another egress for the subdivision. Mayor Moriconi stated yes. Council Member
Brinker stated this would give some relief to Oby Drive, which currently is the
only ingress/egress for the Freedom Park subdivision. Mayor Moriconi concluded
that this proposed plan is a positive phase for the ongoing development of this
subdivision.
29.   City Attorney, Mr. Deters commented that it is his policy of advising
council not to discuss a zone change before it is officially before the council
to act on. He advised council they should only discuss whether or not they want
to pursue the annexation aspect of the development. Council Member Yeager
stated that she feels the extension of this subdivision is a good thing.
Council Member Franzen stated that the city police officers would be patrolling
the area, so it should be annexed into the city. Mayor Moriconi commented that
having another ingress/egress would alleviate the traffic off of Oby Drive and
State Route 17. Council Member Brinker asked when the road leading out to
Wilson Road would be developed. Mr. Duncan advised that Ms. Mullins, for tax
purposes, wants to stage the sale the fifty-six acres in three separate tracts
and that the tract that directly abuts the Freedom Park subdivision would be
the first phase developed.
30.   Council Member Bushong asked if the annexation was desired if the
developer did not get the requested R-1D zone. Mr. Duncan stated probably not.
Council Member Bushong asked why the developer did not want to stay with the
current R-1C zone of the Freedom Park subdivision and would they be interested
in staying with the current zone. Mr. Duncan responded that the developers
would probably not be interested in building under the current R-1C zone, as
they want to have more flexibility provided in the R-1D zone so they could
offer a product that the public wants to purchase.
31.   Mr. Deters asked Mr. Duncan what he would like from council at this
meeting. Mr. Duncan stated that they would like the council to approve an
application for the KCPC to consider the property for voluntary annexation and
make a recommendation to amend the comprehensive plan and official zoning map
to incorporate and establish zoning or other land use regulations for the
property proposed for annexation.
32.   Council Member Franzen moved to recommend annexation of the Mullins
property, located at 11527 Wilson Road, and ask the Kenton County Planning
Commission to recommend a building zone. Council Member Yeager seconded the
motion. Council Member Dupps asked if the development would contain unused
green space. Mr. Duncan advised there would be large rear yards with hillsides,
with many trees left untouched. He stated these green spaces would be owned and
therefore maintained by the individual property owners. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 1997-O-13 Relating to Building
Codes – 1st Reading
33.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance
relating to the adoption of the building codes. He yielded the floor to Mr.
Deters for further explanation. Mr. Deters advised council that the city adopts
the uniform building codes and that this proposed ordinance would adopt the
most recent updates, that being the 2002 Kentucky Residential Code; in effect
keeping the city current with operating under the uniform codes. Mayor Moriconi
stated it is a formality to adopt the building codes by ordinance and basically
a little ‘housekeeping’ of the ordinance currently in effect. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised this ordinance would be on the
agenda of the next regular business meeting for a second reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 1-7-89 Adopting the International
Property Maintenance Codes – 1st Reading
34.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance
relating to the adoption of the 2003 International Property Maintenance Code.
He asked Mr. Deters to explain this proposed ordinance to council. Mr. Deters
stated that again, this proposed ordinance is needed ‘housekeeping’ to keep the
city current with regulations for control of buildings and structures.
Discussion Regarding “Gang/Cluster” Mailboxes and Amending Ordinance No. 1993-
O-01
35.   Mayor Moriconi directed council’s attention to a memo in their packet
from the city’s Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian. He stated that Mr. Barbian
is requesting that council consider amending Ordinance No. 1993-O-01, which
prohibits the installation of gang mailboxes in the city. He stated that Mr.
Barbian suggests abolishment of the existing ordinance or amending it to permit
cluster mailboxes in commercial and apartment and condo complexes.
36.   Mayor Moriconi suggested council amend the ordinance to permit the
cluster mailboxes in apartment and condo developments. Council Member Yeager
feels the residents in the condo developments should be asked if they want
these type mailboxes. She stated she has no problem in amending the ordinance
to allow these mailboxes for shopping centers. Council Member Brinker suggested
the option should be available if it would better serve a development. Council
Member Franzen commented that most apartment complexes have the cluster mailbox
located inside the front door of each building unit, which she considers to be
reasonable. Council Member Yeager stated she is concerned that the senior
citizens would be burdened if they had to walk a long distance to retrieve
their mail, especially in inclement weather. Mr. Deters stated he would draft
an amended ordinance for their consideration at the next caucus meeting
Resolution No. 2004-R-04 – Approving the Contract of the ––Sale– of City
Property Located at 5247 Madison Pike
37.   Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2004-R-04 that approves the
contract of sale to the buyer, Eric C. Deters, for the city property located at
5247 Madison Pike, which currently houses the city administration offices. He
stated Eric Deters has offered the city $260,000.
38.   Mr. Jed Deters read Resolution No. 2004-R-04. Council Member Behler moved
to approve Resolution No. 2004-R-04, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2004-R-05 – Authorizing the Operation of a Mobile Vending
(Hawaiian Ice) Unit at City Parks
39.   Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2004-R-05 that authorizes the use
of a self contained Hawaiian Ice vending trailer in Memorial Park on a trial
basis. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-R-05. Council Member Franzen asked if
this would give exclusive rights for vending sales to Mike Harmon of Special
Occasions. Mr. Deters advised that the city would have to permit all vendors
who make a request to sell refreshments in the park or not allow it at all.
Council Member Behler stated she thought Mr. Harmon wanted to set up at both
Staggs and Memorial Parks. Mr. Harmon, 81 Sherwood Drive, commented that this
mobile vending trailer is a new concept for him, and an extension of his
Special Occasions Catering business, but he feels that Memorial Park would be
the ideal location for the trailer as there is not much resident activity at
Staggs Park.
40.   Council Member Yeager moved to approve Resolution No. 2004-R-05, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Award Bid for the Re-Surfacing of Thomas Drive and Dalewood Drive
41.   Chief Butler reported that five bids were received for the resurfacing of
Thomas Drive and Dalewood Drive. He stated that the City Engineer is
recommending the city award the bid to the low bidder, Barrett Paving Materials
in the amount of $67,120.
42.   Council Member Yeager moved to award the bid to Barrett Paving and
authorize the mayor to execute the contract, seconded by Council Member Behler.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Street Inventory
43.   Chief Butler reported that the City Engineer has prepared a proposal to
conduct an in-depth street inventory and pavement condition rating report for
all public streets maintained by the city. Mayor Moriconi stated it would be
used to develop budgets and a 5-year repairs and capital improvement schedule.
Chief Butler stated that CDS Associates has quoted a project cost of $15,500.
Storm Sewer Grant from the Sanitation District
44.   Chief Butler announced the city would be receiving a 50/50 grant from the
Sanitation District for storm sewer repairs on Pioneer Drive. He stated the
District will begin granting more financial assistance with needed storm sewer
repairs throughout the region.
VIPS (Volunteers in Police Service) Program
45.   Chief Butler announced the launch of the VIPS program. He stated this
program formalizes their volunteer program and is modeled after the national
VIPS program. He stated they have been fortunate to have a good volunteer group
and this program encourages good community volunteers. It will begin operations
on July 1, 2004.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
46.   No report.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
47.   Mayor Moriconi stated that the Executive Order on the agenda to make an
appointment to the Board of Adjustments would be rescheduled for the next
council meeting.
Amphitheater Events
48.   Mayor Moriconi announced there would be a free concert at the Memorial
Park Amphitheater on Sunday, June 13, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. He advised that all
concerts scheduled in June that is rained out would be relocated to the Summit
View Schools. He encouraged everyone to visit the city’s website to view the
Amphitheater schedule of events.
Cancellation of the July 12, 2004 Meeting
49.   Mayor Moriconi stated that he has a scheduling conflict the same day as
the July 12th council meeting and requested the meeting be canceled. He stated
that if important business would arise that could not wait until the next
regular meeting on August 2, that a special meeting could be scheduled prior to
the 7:00 pm caucus meeting on July 19th.
50.   Council Member Franzen moved to cancel the July 12th council meeting,
seconded by Council Member Dupps. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion Regarding Calvary Road
51.   There was a brief discussion regarding a letter received from a resident
on Calvary Road. The resident is upset that the street signs have been changed
to read C-a-v-a-l-a-r-y in keeping with the theme of the Battleridge
Subdivision. The resident is concerned about the effect this spelling change
will have on everything from the deed to personal checks. The City Clerk
explained this has been an on-going debate for the last few years as some of
the residents prefer to stay with the Battleridge theme and others are not
concerned with the theme, but are more concerned about the effect the change
will have on personal and official documents. Council Member Franzen suggested
a letter be sent to the residents explaining the matter.
Executive Session
52.   Mayor Moriconi advised that an executive session was needed to discuss
pending litigation. Council Member Behler moved to enter into an executive
session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
53.   Council Member Dupps moved to return to the regular session of the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. No action resulted from the
executive session.
Adjournment
54.   There being no further business to discuss, Council Member Yeager moved
to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:48 pm.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 21, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 21,
2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor,
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Donna Yeager, Eric Dupps, Jim
Bushong, Tom Brinker and Mary Pat Behler answered roll call. Council Member,
Carol Franzen was not present. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
No one signed in for privileges to address council.
OLD BUSINESS
Discussion for Acceptance of Regal Ridge Drive for Maintenance
Mr. Steve Powell of Powell Homes Development revisited an issue that was
brought before council on October 7, 2002. He stated that at that meeting he
had requested a commitment from the city to accept Regal Ridge drive for
maintenance purposes after he completed the planned improvements to bring the
street up to building code specifications. Mr. Powel advised that Council
Member Jim Ellison made a formal motion to accept Regal Ridge Drive for
maintenance after improvements were made. Mr. Powell stated the road was in
poor condition and was actually dedicated in 1982, but for unknown reasons it
never became a city maintained street. He stated they worked with the Planning
Commission and rebuilt the street, including the replacement of curbs and
gutters, all completed in May 2003. He stated the City Engineer made an
inspection of the street improvements and noted a couple of deficiencies that
have now been fixed to the engineer’s satisfaction. Chief Butler confirmed the
city engineer’s findings. City Attorney Deters asked if the street had been re-
platted. Mr. Dwight Clayton stated the city never accepted the street but it
was platted in 1982 as a dedicated public right-of-way. Council Member Dupps
asked if an ordinance would be needed. City Attorney Deters stated it would.
Mr. Powell stated that they felt this was the best way to do it and that is why
they are bringing this before the city. City Attorney Deters stated it might be
overkill since the city engineer and NKAPC have approved this street for city
maintenance, but felt it would be prudent to do an ordinance. Mayor Moriconi
stated an ordinance would be prepared for a first reading at the August 2nd
meeting with a second reading of the ordinance at the first business meeting in
September.
NEW BUSINESS
Proposed Ordinances relating to Gang Mail Boxes
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would amend
Ordinance 1993-O-01. He explained that this ordinance established a ban on
cluster/gang mailboxes in the city limits. He stated that the building
inspector has received requests from developers of multi-residential complexes,
such as condominium and apartments, permission to install the cluster/gang
mailboxes. Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for questions from council on this
proposed ordinance amendment. Council Member Yeager asked if some wording
relating to a “limit of footage between the residence and the mail box could be
no further than 100 feet” due to some residents, especially senior citizens
might not be able to walk that far to retrieve their mail. City Attorney Deters
stated in speaking with the Post Office, he was told the postal carriers would
deliver to someone’s door under certain circumstances. Mayor Moriconi stated
the goal of the gang mailboxes is for convenience. Council Member Yeager stated
she had discussed this with the Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian, and he tends
to agree with her. City Attorney Deters stated Mr. Barbian would have that
discretion. Council Member Behler stated another building inspector might not
be so generous. Council Member Dupps stated he is concerned that would create a
need for variance requests, which would have to go before the Board of
Adjustments for a determination. City Attorney Deters stated the gang mailboxes
could be constructed according to an agreement with a developer. Mayor Moriconi
stated the mailboxes would be hard to regulate, but a developer should want to
offer conveniences. Council Member Behler stated that if in the future problems
arise, due to a lack of a definite distance between each cluster mailbox unit
in this ordinance then it could be amended at a later date. Council Member
Yeager asked how the gang mailboxes currently located at the park and ride lot
would be handled once the city sells this property. City Attorney Deters stated
he did not know and that this may be an issue between the resident box holders
and the postmaster.
Discussion Regarding the Creation of a Part-Time Building Custodian
Mayor Moriconi stated this position has been added to the 2004/05 budget and
would combine the duties of cleaning the new Municipal Center and the Senior
Center He stated the goal is to hire one custodian to maintain both buildings
as well as assist in the opening/closing of the Senior Center when it is rented
for private meetings and events. Mayor Moriconi stated the City Clerk was in
the process of a job description and pay scale. Attorney Jed Deters stated he
would draft an ordinance to create this position. Council Member Behler asked
why the city was not remaining with the contracted personnel that is currently
performing these duties at the Senior Center. Chief Butler stated there has
been an issue raised regarding overtime pay for a city employee and that Owings
Construction, who had assisted with the opening/closing of the Senior Center
when the director was unavailable has advised the city they will no longer
supply this service. He stated it might be more economical to hire a part-time
employee to perform the maintenance of both buildings and assist with the
openings/closings. Council Member Dupps asked if the job duties would include
cleaning the park shelter restroom facilities. Mayor Moriconi stated that the
Public Works Department would take over that job. Council Member Dupps asked if
the intent is to pay a part-time employee to be available 24/7, without the
added benefit of fringe benefits. Chief Butler stated the Senior and Community
Center is rented every weekend and there are events taking place there every
night so this would be a cost savings for the city. Mayor Moriconi stated the
consensus seems to be to move forward with the creation of this position.
City Attorney Report
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report.
Police Chief Report
Chief Butler advised he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Moriconi asked Council Member Behler whom she had selected to receive the
Business Recognition for the month of July. Council Member Behler stated she
would like to recognize Chambers and Grubbs Funeral Home.
Mayor Moriconi stated the next scheduled council meeting will be cancelled and
the caucus business meeting will be held on July 19, 2004 at the Senior and
Community Center.
Discussion Regarding the Decision by Kenton County to Discontinue Maintaining
County Roads in City Limits
Mayor Moriconi stated he was just advised about two hours ago that the county
has decided they would no longer maintain county roads that are located within
city boundaries. He stated this information is according to the county
attorney. Chief Butler stated he received verbal notice today, and that a
formal (written) notice has not been sent to the city yet. He stated that the
county attorney, Garry Edmondson is recommending the Kenton County Fiscal Court
take action to discontinue maintaining all county roads that run through any
incorporated city boundary based on a recent court ruling. Chief Butler stated
he believes this could become a legal issue, as it would be devastating to our
budget, as well as other cities. Council Member Behler asked if any other
cities are involved in this issue. Chief Butler stated they were. City Attorney
Jed Deters stated that in his opinion the case being cited is a “real stretch”
and did not feel it would “fly”. Council Member Brinker stated Independence
stands to be hurt the most due to being the largest city in Northern Kentucky.
Chief Butler stated there are many county roads in the city. He added that it
is believed the original intent of the court ruling is that county roads
annexed into the city limits it the future would be subject to city
maintenance. City Attorney Deters stated should this become a lawsuit against
the county that one or two attorneys should represent all of the cities.
Council Member Dupps asked if KLC could provide any input. Mayor Moriconi
stated he would continue to check into this matter and provide updates to
council. Council Member Behler asked how many miles of county roads are located
in the city limits. Chief Butler stated he would have Public Works do a count.
Discussion Regarding TransCare ALS (Advanced Life Support) Services
Mayor Moriconi stated the next issue for discussion is the Advanced Life
Support (ALS) issue. He stated this issue has been a topic of discussion over
the last two years between TransCare and city and county officials. Mayor
Moriconi asked if council was interested in funding a temporary fix for the
next six t twelve months until a permanent solution can be made regarding this
service. Council Member Bushong asked what the approximate cost would be. Chief
Butler stated it would cost approximately $77,000.00. Council Member Yeager
asked what the Independence Fire District contribution would be. Chief Butler
sated as of July 1, 2004, ALS will no longer service Independence. Chief Butler
stated he spoke to the Fire District and they have stated they will not split
this expense with the city. He stated TransCare is signing with several cities.
He stated that over the last two years many proposals have been discussed
regarding the best way to handle this service to the residents, as well as a
way to fund the cost of the service. He stated Erlanger and Elsmere will remain
until February when they will start their own. Council Member Yeager asked if
Covington would temporarily fund this service with TransCare until February
when they will launch their own. Chief Butler stated legislation is involved as
to whether another district can come into the county. Chief Butler stated if
the city opts to do this, and if the fire department implements this program,
then we could ask them for reimbursement. Council Member Bushong asked if
TransCare will not do for less than one year. Chief Butler stated this is a one
year deal and it may be revisited next year but this will allow the
continuation of service until the issue is decided. Council Member Brinker
asked how many runs are done in the city. Chief Butler stated it would be
difficult to obtain that information because that data is lumped in with other
cities. Council Member Brinker stated the city might need to do a public
hearing to get citizen input. Chief Butler stated there is not time for a
public hearing, and council needs to decide tonight. Council Member Yeager
stated she would prefer an agreement with the Independence Fire Department. Mr.
Kudera stated the tax has not been approved but there could be a void in
service. He stated the fire department will not have this service up and
running for a while. Chief Butler stated there could be a six to seven month
span where the city would be without service. Mr. Kudera stated the city does
not have a good ALS service until we have our own. Council Member Yeager asked
what would be the cost. Mr. Kudera stated this is not a simple process but they
are working on numbers and cannot make a commitment at this time. Chief Butler
stated the issue may be revisited next year but this will allow continuation of
service until the issues are decided. Council Member Behler stated this is a
service to the citizens and Chief Butler concurred, but felt the fire
department should be responsible for the ALS service. Mayor Moriconi stated he
approached the fire department twice and both times requested they pay half.
Mr. Kudera stated the fire department does not have to provide medical service
as they are classified as fire protection. Mr. Kudera stated if the tax passes
and there is a voter recall, the fire department will not realize the funds to
fund ALS and they may not be able to do. Chief Butler asked council if they
wanted to provide this service to the citizens. Council Member Yeager stated
this will be hard to explain to the citizens. Mayor Moriconi stated Council
Member Brinker brings up a good point that St. Elizabeth is not able to provide
this service when they have a huge expansion and decorate plus one-million
dollars to Gateway. Council Member Brinker asked if citizens subscribe for this
service. Council Member Behler asked if the fire department would still provide
ambulance service. Mr. Kudera stated the fire department will still have EMT’s,
just not paramedics. Mr. Kudera stated in July, 2002 TransCare made a proposal
to the Mayor’s Group and Kenton County Fiscal Court and they are still no
closer to a solution. Mayor Moriconi stated they passed a Resolution to put
this on the ballot but then it was decided not to put it before the voters.
Council Member Yeager stated hopefully the fire department will decide to
provide this in the near future. Mayor Moriconi stated for July 1, 2004 thru
June 30, 2005 the city will remain with TransCare and will check on the current
cost to provide this service. Council Member Brinker stated that you can’t put
a price on a person’s life, and does not like that the city has fund this, but
we will have to find money to provide this service to the citizens. Mayor
Moriconi stated this is a very important issue and he will bring numbers back
to council.
Citizen Comments
Leon Myers, 10805 Autumnridge Drive stated that EMT’s do not have the authority
to administer drugs and feels the city must supply this service to the
citizens.
Marcus Cook, Carrie Way asked if the city could be sued if they don’t provide
this service and someone dies. Mr. Deters stated the city has immunity.
George Sanders, 5268 Pioneer Drive asked if the fire department has ever lost a
life. Mr. Kudera stated he has no statistics on that information. Mr. Sanders
stated the city needs to find a way to assist the fire department.
Chief Butler stated everyone would like to have this service; so does the city
provide no ALS service or enter a one year contract with TransCare. Council
Member Dupps stated he is concerned with issues that could arise later on if
the city agrees to this and then discovers the charge for this service is out
of sight. Mr. Kudera stated this is a community problem and the issue is bigger
than just providing paramedic services to a stroke victim. He stated the fire
department will be meeting on June 30th to look at their budget and are
postponing other agenda items to discuss the ALS issue earlier. Chief Butler
asked if the Fire Board passes this tax, would they come back and negotiate
this service with the city. Mr. Kudera stated he will take these questions to
the Fire Board. Mr. Kudera stated the Fire Board has $300,000 in reserves and
they refuse to touch this money. He stated they also have to consider the
unincorporated areas covered by the Fire District. Council Member Bushong asked
if the $77,000.00 includes providing ALS service to the unincorporated areas.
Chief Butler stated that would be provided by the county. Mayor Moriconi stated
the county is out of this. He stated this service is only for the cities. He
stated he would get a firm money figure and advise council members to get a
consensus. Mr. Deters stated they could ratify this at the next regular
meeting. Council Member Bushong asked where in the budget the money would come
from. Chief Butler stated they would have to make even deeper cuts in the
current budget. Mayor Moriconi stated the money would be taken from the reserve
account if necessary. Council Member Brinker asked how they arrived at the
city’s fair share. Chief Butler stated it was based on population. He stated if
any of the cities drop out, the remaining cities shares get higher.
Discussion Regarding the Senior Center Gaming License
Council Member Yeager announced she has obtained the gaming permit for the
Senior Center. Mayor Moriconi complimented Council Member Yeager, City Clerk,
Patricia Taney and staff. Council Member Yeager stated they should have pull-
tabs available for the July 4th Celebration events on July 2nd and 3rd. She
stated the Senior Center Board of Directors and senior volunteers would begin
the process of establishing a Bingo as well as holding 50/50 raffles at the
various senior events. Mrs. Joann Cobble advised of the state requirement to
keep accurate figures to report. Council Member Yeager stated, Pat Walton will
chair the committee and will speak with representatives of St Cecelia Church
that will assist them with establishing the Bingo. Council Member Behler stated
that she recalls at the last meeting council discussed the gaming license and
she was under the impression that members of the Senior Board of Directors
would be invited to speak with council regarding this new venture. Council
Member Brinker stated it might be hard for some of the Board members to attend
evening meetings. Council Member Yeager stated the next Senior Board meeting is
June 22, 2004 in the morning. Council Member Yeager expressed confidence that
the Senior Board would feel more financially independent now that they have
received the gaming license, thus having a viable way to raise their own
revenue. Council Member Behler stated that many of the seniors have expressed
that they feel the Senior Board is not supporting them. Mayor Moriconi stated
some of the board members have not taken active roles on the Board have poor
meeting attendance records. Council Member Behler stated she did not understand
why the board members do not contribute more. Council Member Yeager stated
maybe the meetings should be changed from mornings to evenings. Council Member
Behler stated the seniors need a Board that is going to actively participate in
the success of the Center and she hopes these discussions will continue.
Adjournment
There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member Bushong and
seconded by Council Member Behler to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:22 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 19, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 19,
2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor,
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager answered roll call.
Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Michelle Herrman, 345 Webster Road, Independence stated that she would like to
address the zone change request by Wolsing, Hasekoester-Reese, LLC for property
located along Independence Station, Webster and Cody Roads. She requested the
opportunity to reserve her comments until have they made their presentation to
council. Mayor Moriconi granted this request.
Mr. Deters advised council they would be able to ask questions of the
developer, but reminded them this is not a public hearing forum and that new
evidence that was not heard at the official public hearing held by the Kenton
County Planning Commission could not be presented. Mr. Deters asked Mrs.
Herrman if she spoke at the public hearing, she replied that she did. Mayor
Moriconi advised council to limit the discussion to the Planning Commission’s
recommendation to the city.
Sherry Carran, 927 Forest, Covington, Kentucky stated that Mr. Jim Berling
asked her to share the comments that she made the Kenton County Planning
Commission’s public hearing regarding the Wolsing, Hasekoester-Reese, LLC
development on Independence Station Road. She stated she spoke in favor of the
development plan. Again, Mr. Deters advised that all discussion should pertain
to the Planning Commission’s recommendation. Mayor Moriconi stated the matter
was on the agenda and would be discussed later.
Discussion Relating to an Addition to the - Freedom Park Subdivision
Annexation/Zone Change for Mullins Property, 11527 Wilson Road – KCPC
Application No. 1682R
Mayor Moriconi presented for discussion a zoning recommendation the city has
received from the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) for property located
at 11527 Wilson Road upon annexation by the city. He stated that Mr. Mike
Duncan and Mr. Erpenbeck were present to answer questions council may have
regarding this recommendation.
Mr. Duncan stated that the developer is requesting voluntary annexation of the
Wilson Road property into the city limits, as this will be an extension of the
Freedom Park Subdivision, which is currently within the city boundaries. He
stated it makes sense to have the entire subdivision within city limits. He
stated the recommendation by the Planning Commission suggests the property be
zoned R-1D as part of the annexation process.
Council Member Behler asked if another access road would be constructed for
this development, as currently Oby Drive is the only egress for the
subdivision. Mr. Duncan advised that eventually there will be access to Wilson
Road, as they have that land under contract to purchase in the future, but the
development will not begin in that area.
Council Member Yeager asked if they could establish a gravel road during the
construction phase so that the heavy equipment could access the construction
sites instead of using Freedom Trail and Oby Drive, which is so narrow. She
expressed concern for the children playing on Oby Drive. Mr. Erpenbeck stated
they had not considered and does not anticipate it would be a problem, but that
he would review this request to see it a temporary egress could be installed.
Regarding lot sizes, Mr. Duncan advised they had requested an R-1D zone so they
could build 70-foot lots. He stated that the NKAPC staff recommendation was for
an R-1C (PUD), which would permit the flexibility, the developer request. Mr.
Duncan stated this zone would allow fifty foot lots with twenty-percent of the
development left as green space. He stated the green space could be maintained
by either a homeowners’ association or the city and he has the senses the city
does not want the maintenance of more green space. He stated that the Planning
Commission expressed concern about the area along the creek but they will
designate the area as a conservation easement. Either way, Mr. Duncan said they
would be willing to work within the requirement of an R-1C zone as they like
the flexibility this zone would provide. He advised that they propose a
development plan of 3.02 net units per acre, with forty-one 80-foot lots and no
lots lower than 70 foot. Council Member Yeager asked the lot sizes currently in
’’’’Freedom’ ’’Park’’ subdivision. Mayor Moriconi stated the lot sizes are 80
foot. Mr. Duncan advised the development will limit the number of lots to 156,
which is less density than is allowed. He stated that some people do not want
big lots to maintain and they wish to satisfy the needs of those buyers. He
stated the smallest lot will be 70 feet and they feel this mix of lot sizes
will strike a good balance.
Council Member Bushong stated that callers have expressed to him a desire to
keep the minimum lot size at 80 feet continuing the uniformity of the
subdivision. Council Member Behler asked if the callers understood the
developer would be building fewer homes than permitted. Council Member Bushong
stated the callers are adamant the lot size should not be less than 80 feet.
Council Member Franzen asked if they would be willing to revise the plan to
develop more of the 80-foot lots. Mr. Duncan commented they have the irregular
topography to deal with that would make it difficult. Mr. Tom Schreiber, one of
the developers, commented that all the houses planned for this development
could easily fit on a 70-foot lot. Council Member Franzen expressed concern
regarding the minimum space between each house regardless of whether it is a
ranch or 2-story structure. Mr. Duncan stated that the R-1C zone requires 20-
feet total between houses.
Council Member Behler stated she wonders if others have concerns regarding the
aesthetics or change in the configuration of the neighborhood. Council Member
Dupps commented that is typically a density concern but that doesn’t apply in
this situation.
Mr. Duncan stated the developers would discuss making the changes that council
has suggested: a temporary access road for the construction vehicles, spacing
between the houses and lot sizes. He stated that they have the terrain of the
property to consider. Council Member Yeager stated she would like to see more
80-foot lots on the same number (156) of planned lots. Mr. Duncan stated they
would loose a third of the planned houses if they would increase all the lot
sizes to 80 foot.
Council Member Dupps expressed concern about a detention pond on the other side
of the development. Mr. Erpenbeck advised they would take that under
consideration when they get into the design phase of the project.
Mr. Duncan stated that the Planning Commission has placed five conditions on
the zone change. Those conditions include: a maximum of 156 lots, a maximum
density of 3.02 dwelling units per net acre, a minimum of 41 lots with 80 foot
frontage at the setback line, no lots under 70 foot frontage and there is to be
a 200 foot conservation easement placed along the stream within the site. Mayor
Moriconi asked who would maintain the conservation easement. Mr. Duncan advised
the property owner would have that responsibility.
Mayor Moriconi advised a proposed ordinance for the zone change would be
presented for a first reading at the August 2nd council meeting. He stated that
a vote is not usually taken on the first reading of a proposed ordinance, but
in this case he may call for a vote to see if there is interest in moving
forward for a second reading and enactment. In closing, Mr. Duncan stated he
would consult with the developers and afterward contact Mayor Moriconi
regarding council’s changes/suggestions they may be able to satisfy.
Discussion Regarding a Map Amendment for Property Located on Independence
Station Road by Wolsing & Hasekoester-Reese LLC – KCPC Application No. 1683R
Mayor Moriconi presented for discussion a recommendation the city has received
from the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) for a zone change request by
Mr. Jim Berling, on behalf of George and Laverne Wolsing and Hasekoester-Reese,
LLC for a 170-acre parcel located on Independence Station Road between Webster
Road and Cody Road. He stated that Mr. Marty Butler and Mr. Jim Berling were
present to answer questions council may have regarding this zone change. Mayor
Moriconi advised that the KCPC has recommended the property be changed from an
R-1C to an R-1C (PUD), subject to nine conditions.
Mr. Marty Butler distributed copies of the packets that were provided to the
KCPC at the public hearing. He stated the maximum number of homes in this
development will be 415 with 33% of the subdivision designated as open green
space, which addresses the concerns of the conservationists. Mayor Moriconi
advised that he has informed the developers that the city has currently reached
the maximum number of parks that we are able to maintain. Council Member
Brinker concurred that the city could not afford to maintain another park. Mr.
Butler stated they have approached Kenton County to see if they are interested
in maintaining this area as a park. Council Member Yeager commented that if the
county does not want the land and it would become the responsibility of a
homeowners’ association, she would like the deed to delegate the property to
the city in the event that the homeowners’ association would dissolve. Council
Member Behler suggested it would be better to establish a homeowners’
association that would impose property assessments and provide professional
management. She also suggested hillside trusts to ensure the conservation
easements remain in their natural state. Mr. Butler stated that, owner George
Wolsing has expressed his desire that the 100-year-old trees be preserved as
part of a naturalist park area.
Council Member Dupps expressed concern regarding access roads for this
development. Mr. Butler commented that concern has been addressed. Mr. Jim
Berling advised they met with John Scheben to address the access roads and they
have developed a loop system within the development.
Mayor Moriconi advised a proposed ordinance would be drafted for presentation
at the August 2nd meeting for a first reading.
Discussion Regarding a Proposed Ordinance that would Create a Building
Custodian Position and Job Description
Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed ordinance that will create the position of
part-time building custodian. He advised this position would be responsible for
the cleaning and maintenance of the Senior/Community Center and the new
Municipal Center, as well as assist with the opening and closing of the Senior/
Community Center when it is rented for events. Council Member Bushong asked how
much assistance would be provided to the Senior/Community Center for the
opening and closing of the building and how that would be specified in the job
description. Chief Butler stated this position would assist Nita Brake about
fifty percent of the time and that it would be by mutual arrangement. He stated
the person hired for this position would have to be able to offer the city
flexible working hours. Council Member Yeager stated the working hours should
be specified in the classified advertisement to fill this position. She
wondered if they could find a person to work ten hours per week. Mrs. Taney,
City Clerk advised that it is estimated that this position would be working 20-
25 hours per week, with no benefits other than retirement. Chief Butler
commented that bringing this position in house should be less expensive than
the current outsourcing for this service.
Mayor Moriconi advised this ordinance would be placed on the August 2nd agenda
for a first reading.
Discussion Regarding a Proposed Ordinance to Amend the Personnel and Pay
Classification Plan to Add the Position of Part-Time Building Custodian
Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed ordinance that will amend the current pay
plan to add the position of part-time Building Custodian and setting the
minimum and maximum pay range. Council Member Behler asked if a salary
comparison was performed for this position. Mrs. Taney advised that a
comparison was not done but that she could ask the Northern Kentucky Area
Development District if they had information on this position.
Chief Butler advised that he would like to amend the minimum salary range for
the Public Works maintenance worker position, as it is a little higher than it
should be. No objections were noted from the council members to this change.
Mayor Moriconi advised this ordinance would be placed on the August 2nd agenda
for a first reading.
Discussion Regarding a Proposed Ordinance to Accept Regal Ridge Drive as a City
Street for Maintenance Purposes
Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed ordinance that will accept Regal Ridge
Drive as a city street for maintenance purposes. He stated this would honor an
agreement between the developer and the city that was made last year when the
developer approached the city with a plan to construct several houses on the
street and stated he would bring the street up to construction code if the city
would accept it for future maintenance. Council Member Dupps asked if the City
Engineer has inspected the street. Mayor Moriconi confirmed that the City
Engineer had conducted a site visit in March and found some deficiencies in the
concrete curb, which he recommended should be replaced. He stated that the City
Engineer reinspected the site on June 16, 2004 and has reported that the curb
has been replaced according to subdivision regulations and did not notice any
further defects.
Mayor Moriconi advised this ordinance would be placed on the August 2nd agenda
for a first reading.
Discussion Regarding the Maintenance of County Roads Within the City Limits
Mayor Moriconi reported that the city has been notified by Kenton County that
they will immediately discontinue maintenance of county streets within
incorporated areas. He stated that the Public Works Department has conducted a
street audit of the county streets within Independence limits and have reported
there are fifteen miles of county roads in our city. Council Member Dupps asked
the total number including the city streets. Mayor Moriconi advised there are a
total of sixty-four miles of streets.
Chief Butler advised that he has requested this mandate in writing from Deputy
Judge Executive, Scott Kimmich as currently the city has only received a verbal
notice from the County Attorney. He reported that this situation has already
caused some problems regarding whose responsibility it is to remove dead
animals from the county roads, etc. He stated that a more serious problem would
be the closing of the Cody Road underpass during a flash flood, as the city
does not possess the keys needed to lock the floodgates. Chief Butler went on
to say that this mandate handed down from the county is going to have an
immediate impact on the city budget especially with the job of snow removal, as
the majority of the main roads in the city are county roads. He stated the
2004/05 budgets that was just passed has only allocated $50,000 for snow
removal and now the city is faced with the possibility of this amount doubling
before the end of winter.
Council Member Franzen stated she has spoken to county officials who indicate
they are willing to make a deal. Council Member Bushong stated he also has
spoken to county officials who stated the will continue to mow and deal with
slippage conditions on some of the roads.
Mayor Moriconi expressed a desire to request that Kenton County relinquish the
portion of taxes they collect that are allocated to the maintenance of roads
and give that money to the cities that will now be responsible for providing
this service to the residents. Mr. Deters, City Attorney, advised that a
portion of taxes collected by TANK (Transit Authority of Northern Kentucky)
goes toward the maintenance of roads. He stated that these funds should be
appropriated to the city as they cannot collect for roads they do not maintain.
Council Member Behler commented that she attended the Mayor’s Group meeting on
Saturday and it was suggested that all the city’s attorneys review the Kentucky
Supreme Court ruling that is being cited by Kenton County and give the mayors
an opinion. She stated it was also suggested that the cities collectively ask
the Attorney General for an opinion on this matter. Council Member Behler
stated that many feel that County Attorney Garry Edmondson has a loose
interpretation on this ruling by the Supreme Court. Mr. Deters stated that he
feels that may be the reason the city has not received this mandate in writing
yet from the county. Council Member Behler stated that the Mayor’s Group
discussed acting as a body to oppose this decision by the county. She stated
that the City of Taylor Mill has requested specific information from the county
with regard to which roads they are now expected to maintain, etc. She also
reported that the county has scheduled a meeting to discuss this matter with
city representatives for July 29, 2004, but that no one has been advised of the
time or location of the meeting.
Mr. Deters stated that he too feels the County Attorney has loosely interpreted
this court ruling. Mayor Moriconi stated that the county might now be able to
offset their deficit since they will not be expending funds for the maintenance
of roads within incorporated areas.
Council Member Franzen stated the city should look into the legality of the
state allocating municipal road aid to the county if they will no longer
provide maintenance to the streets in incorporated areas. She suggested city
officials schedule a meeting with county officials to work on an agreement.
Council Member Behler advised that the Mayor’s Group will be doing this;
representing all cities. Council Member Franzen suggested that council members
address the Fiscal Court at one of their meetings. Mayor Moriconi advised he
would provide updates to council as this matter progresses in an effort to keep
everyone informed. He stated he would learn more about the July 29th meeting
and let everyone know the details.
Discussion of Miscellaneous Matters
Council Member Behler commented that she feels it is important that the city
always have representation at the Mayor’s Group meetings and suggested a
rotation schedule for the council members. She stated she would like to see the
city more represented and perhaps a report could be provided to the entire
Council. Mayor Moriconi commented that the Mayor’s Group has had the same
agenda for the last year or so, mainly discussing the ALS issue. He stated he
would gladly provide everyone with a copy of the group’s meeting agenda and
instructed the City Clerk to copy the council members.
Council Member Bushong requested the council members be included on the website
comments routing list. Mayor Moriconi stated that he did not have a problem
with this if council would agree to not respond to the sender’s comments or
questions. He stated that multiple respondents with varying responses might
cause confusion to the person making the comment or inquiry. He advised that
currently he, Chief Butler or the City Clerk, gives answers and/or comments to
the senders. He stated he would instruct the website administrator to add the
six council members to the routing list.
Discussion Regarding the Calvary Road Survey Results
Mayor Moriconi advised that a survey was mailed to the residents on Calvary
Road to see if there was interest in changing the spelling to C-a-v-a-l-r-y in
keeping with the theme of the Battleridge Subdivision. Mrs. Taney reported that
of the seventy-four surveys mailed that forty were completed and returned to
the city. She stated that the overwhelming response was to keep the original
spelling of C-a-l-v-a-r-y. She advised that the survey respondents felt the
change would be problematic, inconvenient and costly. Mrs. Taney stated that
some residents had their address permanently etched into a cornerstone
installed on the brick of their house. The consensus of council was to keep the
original spelling as favored by the majority. Mrs. Taney stated she would send
a follow up letter to the Calvary Road residents to inform them of the survey
results and that new street signs would be installed.
Discussion Regarding a Proposed Resolution Supporting Rumpke Corporation’s
“Slow Down to Get Around” Safety Campaign
Mayor Moriconi advised that Rumpke has approached the city with a request to
adopt a resolution supporting their “Slow Down to Get Around” safety campaign
they are promoting. Mrs. Taney stated that Rumpke has begun this campaign after
recent incidents where a couple of their trash collector truck drivers were
struck while on the job by passing motorists. This resulted in one fatality and
one serious injury. She stated this campaign is an effort to educate the
motoring public about safety standards and promote awareness to exercise
caution when passing all services workers, which include postal workers,
package delivery workers, municipal workers making repairs to the roadway and
other various service providers. Council Member Yeager commented that she feels
this is a good idea.
Mayor Moriconi stated the residents should be aware of this safety campaign and
it would be a good article for the city newsletter. He stated a resolution
supporting this would be presented at the August 2nd council meeting for
approval.
Discussion Regarding Proposed Regulations on Political Signs
Council Member Brinker introduced a discussion regarding regulations on
political signs. He stated the he feels that political signs should not be
erected prior to forty-five days before the Election Day. Mr. Deters stated
that he is not aware of city provisions on political signs except for the a
condition that the signs must be removed the day after the election. It stated
that a simple ordinance could be established to impose restrictions. Council
Member Yeager stated that she would like to see a 30-day provision on the
signs. Council Member Bushong stated that he feels 60 days would be more
appropriate with five days after the election to remove the signs. A brief
discussion ensued regarding the time frame needed over the next several weeks
to enact such an ordinance with a provision of a 45-day or 60 day period prior
to the general election in November. There was a consensus to move forward with
this type of legislation and the city attorney stated he would draft an
ordinance for council to consider at the August 2nd meeting.
Discussion Regarding Advanced Life Support (ALS) Services
Council Member Behler advised that the Mayor’s Group discussed the Independence
Fire District ‘s decision not to house the ALS personnel. She stated that she
feels the city should approach the Fire District to discuss an agreement for
the benefit of the citizens. Council Member Brinker stated he would like to
invite members of the Independence Fire District Board and ALS to a city caucus
meeting so that this matter can be discussed. Council Member Bushong commented
that the ALS issue was discussed for a year with an effort to arrive at a
solution for providing this service, including sleeping quarters for the
personnel.
Chief Butler suggested the city request the Independence Fire District to
assist the city, by paying half of the $68,000 the city has pledged to
contribute to ALS for continued service to the citizens. He stated that in
light of the Fire District’s recent increase in the tax rate they would be
imposing this year, which will double their current revenue. They concurred and
directed Mayor Moriconi to send a written request to the Fire District Board.
Council Member Franzen suggested council should communicate to the citizens
that the city council has no control over the tax rate that has been imposed by
the Fire District. Mayor Moriconi stated he would address this in the next city
newsletter.
Discussion Regarding the Bids Received for the Resurfacing of Walnut Hall Drive
Chief Butler advised council that six bids were received for the Walnut Hall
Drive resurfacing project. He stated that the low bidder was Barrett Paving
Materials at $90,299.75. He advised that Barrett has done work previously in
the city on Fleming Drive. Council Member Yeager commented that they did a good
job on Fleming Drive. Chief Butler stated that the City Engineer is
recommending that the bid be awarded to Barrett and council will be asked to
award the bid at the August 2nd meeting.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler reported that Patrol Office Greg Hallau has been called to active
military duty and will be leaving for Kuwait this weekend.
Chief Butler reported that he has purchased a new computer software program for
the Public Works Department that will provide for online complaint forms and
track complaints.
Chief Butler reported that on July 14, 2004 the police department received
their re-accreditation for a second 5-year term.
Community Yard Sale
Council Member Dupps announced he is organizing a citywide community yard sale,
which is scheduled for September 11, and 12, 2004.
Discussion Regarding a Road Tax
Council Member Behler suggested the city look into establishing a road tax to
fund the maintenance of the county roads that the city is now being expected to
care for. Mr. Deters advised that since the city has not received written
notice from the county that it may be premature to take this kind of action.
Council Member Behler advised that the City of Taylor Mill has already had a
first reading of a road tax ordinance. She stated that if the city wants to
proceed with proposing a road tax to the voters that there is a deadline for
this information to be delivered to the County Clerk. Mr. Deters advised he
would speak with the city attorney for Taylor Mill to obtain some information.
Proposed Resolution Supporting the Reauthorization of a Federal Six Year
Surface Transportation Bill – (TEA-21 Grant)
Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed resolution for council’s consideration that
would request the U.S. Congress to pass, and the President to sign a six-year
transportation reauthorization bill that would be no less than $318 billion. He
stated these funds are used to improve the nation’s transportation
infrastructure. He asked council to review the proposed resolution and advised
it would be put on the August 2nd agenda.
Resolution Honoring Former President Ronald W. Reagan
Council Member Franzen stated that she has been approached by a City of Fort
Wright council member who is requesting the city pass a resolution honoring
former President Ronald W. Reagan. Council Member Brinker requested she obtain
a copy for council to consider passing.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and the
meeting ended at 8:48 pm.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 19, 2004
Special Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
of the Council on Monday, July 19, 2004 at 6:45 pm in the Senior Citizens and
Community Center, 2001 Jack Woods Parkway in Independence with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced that this special meeting of the city council was
called to discuss and possibly take action on the following agenda items:
·   A lease-purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank for the purchase of four
police cruisers and a Public Works truck and other equipment
·   Award the bid of the Park and Lawn maintenance contract
Lease-Purchase Agreement with Fifth Third Bank for Cruisers & Public Works
Equipment
Chief Butler presented to council two separate tax-exempt lease-purchase
financing agreement proposals from Fifth Third Bank. He stated the first
agreement is for the purchase of four police cruisers in the amount of
$83,019.36 ($20,754.84 per vehicle) for a lease period of 36 months at a 3.86%
interest rate. He stated that Assistant Chief Dave Nichols handled the vehicle
purchase and was able to acquire them at an excellent rate, saving $2,000 on
each. Chief Butler stated that the second lease purchase total was for
$65,275.00 for a Public Works truck ($47,345), bobcat and trailer. He stated
this was a 48-month lease at a 4.10% interest rate.
Chief Butler requested that council authorize Mayor Moriconi to enter into
these financing agreements with Fifth Third Bank.
Council Member Yeager moved to authorize Mayor Moriconi to execute the
financing agreements for the purchase of the four cruisers and the public works
truck and equipment, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Award of the Bid of the Park and Lawn Maintenance Contract
Mayor Moriconi advised that the city received four bids for the lawn and park
maintenance. He stated that the bid that is awarded would be for a two-year
contract period with the option of a two-year extension. Bids were received
from Professional LawnCare, Gary Adams, Multi Service Group and Malco Services.
Council Member Brinker commented that he recently observed Malco working in the
parks over the last couple of weeks and they appeared to be good workers with a
genuine interest in the city. He stated that if the city is not able to have
city employees perform this job that it’s good to have a city resident awarded
the contract.
Council Member Behler moved to award the lawn/park maintenance contract to
Malco Services, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to adjourn.
Council Member Bushong so moved, with second from Council Member Yeager. Motion
carried with all ayes.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 2, 2004
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 2,
2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance led by Cub Scout Troop 808, Den 12. Mayor
Moriconi presented the Troop with city maps and lapel pins. Council Member
Bushong gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Recognition
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Mary Pat Behler had chosen
Chambers and Grubbs Funeral Home as the recipient for the Business of the Month
Plaque. Mr. Chris Grubbs thanked mayor and council for the recognition and
stated it was an honor. Mr. Grubbs stated they have been operating in
Independence since 1963 and plan on enlarging the funeral home and add
additional services for the residents in the future. Council Member Yeager
asked that it be noted that Mr. Grubbs also serves on the Senior Board of
Directors.
Approval of Minutes for June 7, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the meeting.
Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second by Council Member Dupps as
amended. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of Minutes for June 21, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the meeting.
Council Member Behler so moved with a second by Council Member Bushong as
amended. Roll call was answered and Council Member Franzen passed. Motion
carried 5-1.
Approval of Minutes for July 19, 2004 Special Council Meeting
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the meeting.
Council Member Behler so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll
call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of Minutes for July 19, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the meeting.
Council Member Bushong so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen as
amended. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi requested that everyone addressing council keep his or her
speech limited to three minutes due to a full agenda.
Mrs. Joanne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike asked Mayor Moriconi if she could take
seven minutes to make her speech. Mayor Moriconi advised Mrs. Cobble she would
have three minutes to address council. Mrs. Cobble, in her speech read the
first amendment rights, freedom of speech and cited court cases regarding
political signs. Mayor Moriconi thanked Mrs. Cobble. Mr. Deters asked Mrs.
Cobble if she has threatened litigation against the city. Mrs. Cobble stated
that was true. Mr. Deters stated he should have advised her not to speak but
that would not have done any good. Mrs. Cobble stated the quote in the
newspaper was accurate. Mr. Deters cautioned council not to speak regarding
this issue because litigation has been threatened. He stated he is perfectly
comfortable that the drafted ordinance will withstand constitutional protest.
Council Member Brinker asked if he could make a general comment. Mr. Deters
stated he has cautioned council and he can say whatever he wants. Council
Member Brinker stated his intention was not to make this political. He stated
it was not to make it unfair to an incumbent or a challenger. He stated this
ordinance will not affect the current political cycle and probably should have
clarified that. He stated if the ordinance were passed, it would not go into
affect until the next election cycle. He stated he had spoke with Mrs. Cobble
and Mike Little and feel they do have some valid points, but so do the people
that complained. Mayor Moriconi stated the ordinance was just a draft and not
sure how council feels about the thirty, forty or sixty-day time limit on
political signs. Mrs. Cobble thanked Mayor Moriconi and the Constitution of the
United States of America.
Betty Hughes, 2598 Harris Pike, Independence, Kentucky addressed council
regarding Mrs. Cobble’s statements. She asked how far was the city going to
take the issue and she agrees with Mrs. Cobble.
Leon Myers, 10805 Autumnridge Drive, Independence, Kentucky addressed mayor and
council regarding “citizen rights” on private property. He stated everyone has
a right to freedom of expression. He stated at the July 4th parade there were
more political signs on people with t-shirts than he has ever seen on anyone’s
private property. He stated everyone has a right to put up signs whenever they
wish on their private property but did agree they should be removed after an
election. He also thanked council for acting quickly on the ’’EMS’ situation.
Glenna Faulkner, 22 Carrie Way, Independence, Kentucky asked why council and
mayor are trying to tell the citizens where they can live and what they can do
on their property. She feels her rights have been taken away and is beginning
to feel she lives in another country. She stated there are young men overseas
giving their lives for our freedom and we should be praying for them every
night. She stated she does not feel anyone has the right to tell her whether
she can put a sign up, when to put it up or when to take it down on her own
property. Ms. Faulkner stated it is taking away freedom of speech.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No. 2004-0-13 - Adopting 2002 Kentucky Residential Building Code -
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2004-0-
13, adopting the 2002 Kentucky Residential Building Code. There being no
discussion, Mr. Deters read the ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance 2004-0-13, seconded by Council
Member Dupps. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-0-14 - Adopting 2003 International Property Maintenance Code
- 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2004-0-
14, adopting the 2003 International Property Maintenance Code. There being no
discussion, Mr. Deters read the ordinance.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance 2004-0-14, seconded by Council
Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
NEW BUSINESS
Annexation Request-Maher Road Development
Mayor Moriconi stated Bayer and Becker is requesting annexation of property
located off Maher Road, which consists of fifty-five acres with the
construction of new homes starting at $200,000.00 and up, are making this
request. Mayor Moriconi stated they have not been before NKAPC but first wanted
to see if the city supports this annexation before it goes before NKAPC for a
zone recommendation. Council Member Yeager asked if the city has any property
on Maher Road at this time. Mayor Moriconi stated the city does. Council Member
Franzen asked Mr. Deters if council was legally permitted to discuss this
issue. Mr. Deters stated this request is only for annexation, so anything in
that regard is permitted. Council Member Franzen stated she is not opposed to
more growth in the city but the city has more than it can support now. Council
Member Behler stated there are still a lot of areas within the city limits that
could be developed. Council Member Bushong stated he feels it should go to the
Planning Commission before council agrees or disagrees with the annexation
request. Council Member Yeager asked who the owner of record is for this
property. Mayor Moriconi stated the name “Parker” is in the letter from Bayer
and Becker. Council Member Franzen stated the property they want to annex has
to be connected with the city but does not see where it would connect to any
city property. Mr. Deters stated this property is abutting city property on the
north side which does make it contiguous, so it could be annexed into the city.
Council Member Dupps stated he did not feel the city can continue to annex
property and not gain anything from the tax receipts that will pay for the
services the city would provide. Council Member Franzen stated it appears it
would put the city in more of a financial bind. Council Member Yeager stated
she does not have enough information to make a decision. Mayor Moriconi stated
Area Planning will kick it back to the city eventually for the annexation. Mr.
Deters stated Area Planning will only suggest what the appropriate zoning
should be so it can be changed during the annexation process. Mayor Moriconi
stated since there are different opinions then maybe it should go to the
Planning Commission first. Council Member Brinker stated they are the
professionals for these matters and we should wait for their recommendation.
Council Member Franzen stated that regardless of the zone it will still be
residential property for which the city would have to provide services.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Gephardt from Bayer Becker engineering firm if he
would like to speak. Mr. Gephardt stated the plans are very preliminary at this
time and they are in the process of creating a plat. He stated the developer
just wants to get council opinion regarding their request for annexation into
the city. Council Member Brinker expressed concern that council might be
setting precedent for the future and council needs to decide which way they are
going to go. Council Member Bushong asked Mayor Moriconi if he wants an opinion
or a vote from council. Mayor Moriconi stated they just wanted to see if the
majority of council favored the annexation. Council Member Bushong stated the
city is already looking for financial ways to pay for the roads that county
wants to turn over to the city. He stated he would be against any annexations
at this time. Council Member Yeager stated that is why she asked if the city
has any property on Maher Road. Council Member Franzen stated that she did not
think Maher Road was one of the roads included in the list from the county that
we now have to maintain. She stated she did not think the city had any property
on Maher Road. Mayor Moriconi stated Glenhurst Subdivision was on Maher Road.
Mr. Deters stated he has not received anything in writing as of yet. Council
Member Yeager asked Mr. Gephardt if they could discuss this again at the August
Caucus Meeting. Mr. Gephardt stated he was not sure of the nature of the
developer’s contracts and negotiations with the owners but time is of the
essence and that is why they wanted to get council opinion as soon as possible.
Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Gephardt if there was a reason they did not
want to build in unincorporated Kenton County. Mr. Gephardt stated he was not
sure.
Mr. David Rabe, 529 Independence Station Rd asked if the (56) fifty-six acres
with one hundred-twenty (120) homes at (12,500) twelve-thousand five-hundred
square feet, is consistent with the current zoning. Mayor Moriconi stated that
is what the Planning Commission will tell them. Mr. Rabe stated Mr. Gephardt,
an engineer, already knows what the existing zoning for that property is and he
knows if it is(12,500) twelve-thousand five-hundred square feet. Mayor Moriconi
stated the acreage at this time is zoned agriculture. Mayor Moriconi advised
that it appears that four members on council do not wish to annex this
property. Council Member Franzen stated they are just letting him know so he
can decide if he wants to move forward with the zoning issue. Mayor Moriconi
stated they will need a zone change from the city or the county.
Proposed Ordinance-Map Amendment-R-1C and R-1B to R1-D-1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
requesting a map amendment and annexation. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance. Council Member Yeager stated the city has no property on Wilson Road
and if it is annexed, the city will also have to maintain that road according
to county, unless they can turn those homes so there is no frontage on Wilson
Road. Mr. Deters stated the county has not given the city anything as to what
their position is. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Mike Duncan, representing the
developer, if he could speak on the issues. Mr. Duncan stated only (2) two
homes of the (156) one-hundred fifty-six that are planned for this development,
are shown to be on Wilson Road. He stated those (2) two homes could be
refigured. He stated the current annexation does not include Wilson Road, but
is for a subdivision to be continued off another subdivision that will come out
on Wilson Road.
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to vote on the map amendment. Council
Member Yeager moved to have a first reading on the proposed map amendment,
seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll call was answered with 5 ayes and 1 no
vote cast by Council Member Dupps. The motion carried 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance-Annexation of 11527 Wilson Road -1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a first reading of a proposed ordinance to
annex 11527 Wilson Road. There being no discussion, Mayor Moriconi asked Mr.
Deters to read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance-Map Amendment of 170 acres on Independence Station Road-1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading for a map amendment for
170 acres on Independence Station Road. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read
the ordinance. Council Member Yeager stated it was brought to her attention
that some of the lots did not meet the zoning requirements of (12,500) twelve-
thousand five-hundred square feet. Mr. Dave Rabe residing at 529 Independence
Station Road stated there are no lots in this development that meet the
existing zoning of (12,500) twelve-thousand five-hundred square feet, but
(12,000) twelve-thousand square feet. He stated there are (416) four-hundred
sixteen homes that do not meet the present zoning and there are (163) one-
hundred sixty three lots that are (50) fifty-feet wide. He stated he resides
between Independence Station Road and Cody Road and that section of the land
does not have any lots close to that size. He stated he could not understand
why the city would want to lower the zoning requirements to make it less than
the existing (12,500) twelve-thousand five-hundred square feet. Mr. Rabe stated
there are already enough starter homes in Independence. Mr. Rabe stated he has
no problem with building on lots of (12,500) square feet, but a (50) fifty-foot
lot only has (25) twenty-five feet of front yard. He stated the planning
commission passed this zoning, but he feels there is no planning regarding
traffic or lights.
Mr. Tom List, 5005 McHugh Lane stated his property is located at the very
bottom of the development and he would like a “stub” to come down on to his
property so in the future if he opts to develop this land, this will enable him
to do so. He stated if there are no park land set aside for this development
then he feels that each home needs one-half acre of ground for children to
play.
Council Member Brinker asked if the map amendment has been to the Planning
Commission for their recommendation. Mayor Moriconi stated it has. He asked if
council turns this down, does the developer have other options. Mr. Deters
stated council can hold its own public hearing and have different findings or
the majority can overrule the Planning Commission’s recommendations. Mr. Martin
Butler stated it was the recommendation of the Planning Commission that they
look at the R-1C PUD as opposed to the R-1C. He stated this property is
currently zoned R-1C, and under the R-1C zone you are permitted 3.5 units per
acre. The net of right of way for this development, without a park area is
(150) one-hundred fifty acres that would allow (525) five-hundred twenty-five
lots without the park. He stated they are only asking for (416) four-hundred
sixteen homes. He stated if you look at the traffic issues, there will be (100)
one-hundred plus units less than they are proposing for the development. He
stated the average square footage per lot, if you take into the park is over
(15,000) fifteen-thousand square feet per lot. He stated because of the nature
of a PUD development, when you do a diversity of lots, given the parks and
given the open areas, that you come up with these numbers, but the numbers
aren’t really what is being presented. When you look at the net affect of the
park taken into consideration, you then have an access of (15,000) fifteen-
thousand square feet. He stated two parking spaces have been committed for each
lot. Council Member Yeager asked if there has been any thought to increasing
the size of the (50) fifty-foot lots. Mr. Butler stated economically, if you
are going to give the acreage that is being allotted to for green space, which
is (58) fifty-eight acres that will be totally undeveloped. Council Member
Yeager stated she wanted to make it clear if the map amendment is passed, and
the Homeowners Association or the company handling the association goes
bankrupt, that the park area would be added to the deed that the land would
revert back to Mr.& Mrs. Wolsing. Mr. Butler stated they will be able to come
up with covenants that city council could review and be comfortable with that
would not necessitate the property reverting back to the Wolsing’s. Mr. Deters
stated the city had one Homeowners Association go defunct and the city did not
have any easements to do what they needed to do on the property. Council Member
Bushong asked if this was going to be a bona fide Homeowners Association that
will maintain the green space and park. Mr. Butler stated the current proposal
has an area between the public-park, and residential area to create a buffer.
That area would clearly be the responsibility of the Homeowners Association.
There would not be any maintenance in that area because the intent is to keep
that area as a natural space. Mr. Butler stated Mr. Wolsing wants to keep the
green space area natural for walking, and bird and animal observation. He
stated the Wolsing Park area would be the responsibility of the county or the
Conservancy. Mr. Rabe stated that it was noted at the Planning Commission
meeting that “we” do not want this development to go through unless the City of
Independence or Kenton County will fix up and maintain the park area forever.
Mr. Rabe stated he was at that meeting, and he can get a tape of the meeting.
Mr. Rabe stated the park area is in a flood zone. Mayor Moriconi stated the
developer did approach the city regarding a park and they were advised the city
does not need anymore parks right now. He stated that Mr. Butler said they
would go to Kenton County and ask if they would maintain this park. Council
Member Yeager asked if they did go to county and were they told that the county
will maintain the park. Mr. Butler stated there have been several meetings with
the county and discussions are still proceeding with questions as to whether
the county will maintain the property or whether it will be dedicated to the
Conservancy. Mr. Butler stated this is consistent with the park link design the
Planning Commission has been promoting for years.
Mayor Moriconi advised this proposed ordinance will come back for a second
reading in September. Council Member Brinker asked if the city will have it in
writing if the county will maintain or a conservatorship is established, and
what their responsibilities will be to maintain the park. Mr. Butler stated
they will put that in writing and will present a proposal on the restrictions
for the green space and also the park. Council Member Behler stated she also
has concerns regarding how much added traffic this is going to add to
Independence Station Road. She stated at this point she is not sure what can be
done about it but does feel the city needs a City Planner to help make
recommendations on these sorts of problems. Mr. Rabe stated that council has
everything to do with it. He stated you as a council can either let it go
through or you can keep the lot size at (12,500) twelve-thousand five-hundred
square feet that the surrounding residents can live with. He stated (416) four-
hundred sixteen homes cannot be built in this area because it is a flood zone
and that is why they are leaving it as a park because nothing else can be done
with it.
Proposed Ordinance-Creating Position of Part-Time Building Custodian-1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance creating a part-time
building custodian position. Council Member Yeager stated she did not feel a
custodian should be responsible for the removal of spoiled food or wiping out
refrigerators. She stated each department should be responsible for their own
food disposal. She also stated that the custodian should not have to wash
dishes. She stated that sweeping of sidewalks and keeping entrances clear was
okay but picking up litter in the parking area and plant islands, should be one
of the Public Works duties. She stated they will be responsible for the
opening, closing, setting up and tearing down of tables and chairs at the
Senior Center. She stated that she checked into the lifting of objects of less
than 25 pounds and found that either a woman or man must be able to pick up 70
pounds but was okay to leave at 50 pounds. Council Member Franzen stated she
was not sure it was the Public Works responsibility to pick up trash in the
parking area and felt it would come under the Custodian Job Description. Mayor
Moriconi stated to just leave it in there will leave it open so everybody can
pitch in and help if someone was busy. Council Member Bushong stated since this
was a new job for the city they need to come up with a basic description and it
can be amended as needed. Mayor Moriconi stated some of the changes can be made
at this meeting before Mr. Deters does a first reading. Council Member Brinker
stated since this person will report to the City Clerk, she should be able to
use common sense and determine what modifications need to be made instead of
coming to council. Council Member Yeager stated she did not know who would
supervise this position. Mayor Moriconi stated it would be the City Clerk.
Council Member Franzen stated this is only a part-time position and there will
be a limit to how much this person can get done. Council Member Yeager stated
when the job is advertised, there should be a minimum of (24) twenty-four hours
worked each week. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read the ordinance as
amended.
Proposed Ordinance-Amending Pay Plan to Add Part-Time Building Custodian-1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance amending the pay plan
to add a part-time building custodian and asked council if anyone had any
questions regarding the first reading of the ordinance. Council Member Behler
stated she would like to lower the pay scale due to budget constraints. Council
Member Yeager stated she would like to raise the pay scale, due to concerns of
finding someone to work for that rate of pay. Mayor Moriconi stated it was just
a range to have some flexibility. He stated they did not have to go to $10.00.
Council Member Yeager suggested the pay range start at a minimum of $11.00 per
hour and up from there.
Council Member Brinker stated if no response is made, then they can increase
the hourly rate if they have to. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read the
proposed ordinance as amended.
Recess
Council Member Brinker made a motion to recess for five minutes with a second
by Council Member Franzen. The motion was passed with all ayes.
Council Member Behler made a motion to return to the meeting with a second by
Council Member Yeager. The meeting resumed.
Proposed Ordinance-Accepting Regal Ridge Drive as a City Street for
Maintenance-1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a first reading to accept Regal Ridge Drive
as a city street. There being no discussion, Mr. Deters read the ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance-Gang Mailboxes and Amending Ordinance No. 1993-0-01-1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance amending Ordinance No.
1993-0-01. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read the ordinance. Council
Member Behler asked if the post office has already decided what they are going
to do, will it make a difference what Ordinance the city passes. Mr. Deters
stated he did not think so. Council Member Brinker asked Mr. Deters to read the
ordinance in its entirety so everyone could understand why they are amending
the ordinance. Mr. Deters read the ordinance in its entirety. Mayor Moriconi
stated the original ordinance was established to keep gang mailboxes from being
installed in subdivisions. He stated this ordinance would allow the mailboxes
to be in certain commercial areas, but not in subdivisions. Council Member
Franzen stated she had spoken to a resident from the development behind
Kroger’s and he advised her that he does not have a gang mailbox now and would
prefer to keep it that way. Council Member Yeager stated she had also spoke to
the same resident and was told that he would never have bought a condo in that
development if he had known it would be changed to gang mailboxes. Council
Member Yeager stated that all developments that now have regular mailboxes
should be grandfathered in, so as to not let the post office change to gang
mailboxes. Mr. Deters stated there is a “grandfather clause” built in under
Section II that states,” any future installation will continue to be
prohibited.”
Proposed Ordinance-Levying a Road Ad Valorem Tax-1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance levying a road tax. He
stated a vote will have to be taken in order to have a first reading. He stated
if the ordinance is passed by the voters, a second reading will take place. He
stated council will have to set a tax rate per $100.00 of assessed valuation.
He asked council if they would like to suggest a rate, if this should go on the
ballot. Council Member Yeager stated she did not want this on the ballot.
Council Member Franzen stated the citizens would be paying double taxes because
they are already paying taxes to the county for their roads and now they would
be paying the city for county roads. Mr. Deters stated the problem is the
timing. He stated in order to get it on the ballot in November council would
have to vote on a tax rate now. Council Member Yeager stated she did not want
to put another tax on the ballot. Mr. Deters asked what will happen if the city
does have to maintain the county roads that are in the city. Council Member
Yeager stated the city will keep its roads clean and the residents that live on
county roads can complain to the county. Council Member Behler stated she feels
it should go on the ballot because she cares for the residents of the city and
she would like their opinion. She stated the county is putting the city in a
terrible situation because there has been no written notification. She stated
if the road tax does not go on the ballot, and the city has to do the
maintenance on the county roads, where does that leave the city financially.
Council Member Brinker stated the city needs a plan, which is what the road tax
is, just in case. We want to make sure the county is aware that we are not
giving in to this, and we are going to challenge their decision, but it would
be foolish to do that and not have a backup plan. He stated the residents need
to be made aware of why the city is in this position. Mr. Deters stated at this
point he has nothing to challenge. He stated he has received nothing in
writing, only rumors. Council Member Yeager asked if the money the county is
collecting for roads from Independence residents will come back to the city.
Mr. Deters stated the county cannot collect taxes for services that they do not
provide. Mayor Moriconi stated the city now pays the county $1.31 per
$1,000.00, or about $900,000.00 per year for county roads. Mayor Moriconi asked
Mr. Deters if the city could request a pro-rated share of that money to come to
the city. Mr. Deters stated it is unconstitutional for the county to collect
taxes for a particular purpose, and not use the money for that particular
purpose. If part of that tax is for roads, then the money should be refunded or
they should no longer collect it. Council Member Bushong stated he has had no
cooperation with the county in his phone conversations and wonders how
difficult if would be to separate what goes for road maintenance. Mr. Deters
stated the response would probably be they do not have enough money to begin
with. Mayor Moriconi asked why would the city continue to pay the county when
they are no longer going to do snow removal or repairs on (15) miles of roads.
Council Member Bushong stated he had written a letter to the Kentucky League of
Cities, Attorney and his response is he disagrees with the county’s
interpretation of the law. He stated the only portion that could be
appropriated is the money going into the county road fund. He stated they might
be able to argue that money, but all other money can be spent as they see fit.
Mr. Deters stated until the city receives a letter from the county he can do
nothing. Council Member Bushong asked if he had gotten any feedback from other
Mayors. Mayor Moriconi stated some of the other cities are not going to be
affected like Independence. He stated Villa Hills and Taylor Mill are going to
put a tax on their ballot. He stated the other cities will not be impacted like
Independence. Council Member Behler stated maybe we should work with other
cities on these issues and not go it alone. Council Member Franzen stated Judge
Drees advised her he did not want to meet with the cities together because
nothing would be accomplished. Council Member Brinker stated the city needs to
be prepared and place the tax on the ballot. Mayor Moriconi asked council if
they had a rate they would like to place on the ordinance. Council Member
Brinker asked how much money does the city need to compensate the additional
maintenance for the county roads. Mayor Moriconi advised council the first
reading of the ordinance has to be at the County Clerk’s Office by August 10,
2004 at 4:00 p.m. Council Member Behler stated she is disappointed because no
research was done before this meeting on how much it cost to maintain the city
roads. Council Member Franzen stated the City of Taylor Mill is asking for 10-
cents per $100.00 but they also have a lot less roads to repair than we do.
Mayor Moriconi stated there are some estimates in your packet on what a rate
per $100.00 would bring in. Mr. Leon Myers, 10805 Autumnridge Drive, stated
council is trying to impose a tax and they do not know if it is a requirement.
He stated if the tax is not specifically stipulated for county roads only, then
it is wrong. Mr. Deters stated that is so stipulated in the Ordinance. Council
Member Behler stated she will suggest .06 cents per ($100.00) one-hundred
dollars. Council Member Bushong suggested .03 cents per ($100.00) one-hundred
dollars. He asked if the .03 cents is approved and things change, can the city
withdraw it from the ballot in the future. Mr. Deters stated the city could.
Council Member Dupps asked if the city can go back and lower the rate if
necessary. Mr. Deters stated that could also be done. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr.
Deters to read the ordinance. Council Member Behler moved to adopt a first
reading of the ordinance, seconded by Council Member Dupps. Roll was called and
the ordinance was defeated with a tie vote of 3-3 vote by council and 1 no vote
by Mayor Moriconi.
Proposed Ordinance-Regulating the Use of Campaign & Politically Oriented Signs-
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance regulating campaign
and politically oriented signs. Mr. Deters stated there was some talk about
making changes and he was not sure it was ready for a first reading. Mayor
Moriconi stated the ordinance also states that signs cannot be displayed more
than (45) forty-five days but was not sure how council stood on that. Council
Member Franzen stated she checked with other cities and most of them require
(60) sixty days. Council Member Bushong stated that most of the council is
comfortable with (60) sixty days. He stated the ordinance should be very
specific that it only reflects on political signs that are up in yards and
right-of-ways. Council Member Franzen stated she received many complaints
regarding political signs that were posted during the July 4th parade. Mayor
Moriconi asked council if there were anymore comments besides changing the
requested number of days from (45) forty-five days (60) days. Council Member
Behler stated she would like the word “mechanism” taken out of the ordinance.
Mr. Deters stated the word “mechanism” is in the ordinance to cover the
unknowns. Mayor Moriconi asked if there were any other changes besides the
number of days and replacing the word “mechanism” to “medium.” Mr. Deters read
the ordinance as amended. Council Member Franzen made a motion to accept the
ordinance as amended, with a second by Council Member Dupps. Motion carried
with 5 ayes and 1 nay by Council Member Yeager.
Resolution No. 2004-R-06-Supporting Rumpke Corporation’s “Slow Down to Get
Around” Campaign
Mayor Moriconi presented a resolution to council supporting Rumpke’s campaign.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2004-R-06. Council Member Yeager moved to
approve, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll call was answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2004-R-07-Supporting Federal Transportation Reauthorization of
Long-Term Funding
Mayor Moriconi presented a resolution to council regarding funds that congress
has not completed its work to reauthorize federal transportation programs and
policies necessary to improve our nation’s mobility which includes the TEA-21
Act for state and local levels. Council Member Behler moved to approve,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2004-R-08-Honoring Former President Ronald Reagan
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a resolution to council that would honor
former President Ronald Reagan. Mayor Moriconi read the resolution. Council
Member Bushong moved to approve the resolution, seconded by Council Member
Franzen. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
POLICE CHIEF REPORT
None.
CITY ATTORNEY REPORT
None.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Christian J. Moriconi
Award Bid for Road Repairs on Walnut Hall
Mayor Moriconi stated the bid must be awarded for road repairs on Walnut Hall.
Council Member Bushong moved to award the bid to Barrett Paving, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Executive Order 2004-E-04-Appointing Mr. James Brewer to the Board of
Adjustment
Mayor Moriconi presented to council an Executive Order No. 2004-EO-04
appointing Mr. James Brewer to the Board of Adjustment. Mayor Moriconi read the
executive order.
Mayor Moriconi stated he would like to thank all the volunteers in the Special
Events that worked on the 4th of July event. He stated he heard many positive
comments. He also thanked the Citizens Police Academy, Alumni, Larry Staverman
and the Director of the Parks and Recreation Committee. Council Member Brinker
stated volunteer Dave Millard needs to be thanked, Myra Schneider, Tom
Nicodemus, and Jim Ruesch. Council Member Yeager sated the seniors also did
very well in collecting $600.00 for the sale of pull tabs.
Adjournment
Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn the meeting at 9:52 p.m., seconded by
Council Member Behler. Motion carried.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
______________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant City Clerk
August 16, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
16, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor,
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager answered roll call.
Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Michael Warth, 1897 Bridle Path, Independence read a prepared statement
declaring his opposition to a proposed ordinance relating to political signs.
He stated he does not feel that political signs have become a nuisance and that
restricting the time that they can be posted is violating one’s freedom of
speech. He stated that he feels that ‘for sale’ signs are a greater problem
throughout the city. Mr. Warth urged council to vote down the proposed
ordinance and find a better solution that would guarantee free speech rights.
Discussion Regarding a Map Amendment for 11527 Wilson Road (KCPC Application
No. 1682R)
Mayor Moriconi asked if council had any questions regarding the proposed
ordinance for a map amendment of 11527 Wilson Road before the second reading,
which is scheduled for September 13, 2004. Council did not have any questions.
Discussion Regarding a Map Amendment for Property Located on Independence
Station Road by Wolsing & Hasekoester-Reese LLC – KCPC Application No. 1683R
Mayor Moriconi asked council if they had any questions regarding the proposed
ordinance for a map amendment for the 170-acre parcel located on Independence
Station Road between Webster Road and Cody Road.
Council Member Franzen stated that while she feels that Scheben develops a good
subdivision, she expressed concern with the total number of homes planned for
this parcel, as well as the plans that some of the lots will only be fifty feet
wide. She stated that she would like this concern discussed with the developer
in an effort to increase the size of the lots or decrease the number of
proposed homes. Council Member Behler concurred with Council Member Franzen and
added that roads in the area are a safety concern and has reservations about
adding more traffic in that area. Council Member Dupps stated that he also
agreed and felt the terrain would not support more houses. Council Member
Brinker stated that he would like to do away with the fifty-foot lots.
With four Council Members voicing concerns, Mr. Jed Deters, City Attorney,
questioned why there was a first reading of the proposed ordinance approving
this development at the last council meeting. He advised that council should
attempt to negotiate with the developer in an effort to address these concerns.
Council Member Behler stated she does not have an issue with the fifty-foot
lots, as many retirees prefer smaller lots to maintain. She also feels it is a
good idea to have a variety of sizes of houses in a development. Council Member
Franzen stated she is more concerned with the number of homes planned for this
area. Council Member Dupps stated that he would like to see more of the larger
lot sizes that would benefit the city.
Mayor Moriconi suggested discussing these concerns with the developer at the
next caucus meeting in September and that the second reading of the ordinance,
scheduled for September 13, 2004 be postponed. Mr. Deters advised council that
the city has ninety days from the date that the Kenton County Planning
Commission made their recommendation to the city. He stated that council would
need to take action to either approve or disapprove the recommendation.
Council Member Bushong commented that many of the houses that have not sold in
the various subdivisions have become rental properties. He stated that he likes
that this planned development has a whole range of lot sizes. Council Member
Yeager expressed concern about the planned recreational open space as the
developer had stated the area would be natural open space, not recreational.
Council Member Dupps commented that a homeowners association would maintain the
common use areas. Council Member Yeager stated that the development plan calls
for a hiking trail and bike path. Mayor Moriconi stated that when the city and
county advised the developer they were not interested in taking over the common
areas for maintenance; the developer redesigned it to be natural open space.
Mr. Deters stated that ownership of the common areas would revert to the Kenton
County Conservancy to fund and maintain. Council Member Behler commented that
no decision has actually been made about this. Council Member Yeager stated
that much of the area is in a flood plain.
Mayor Moriconi stated that the Conservancy sounds nice, but if it is not
maintained then the city will get calls from residents. He stated he would
contact the developer (Berling) to discuss council’s concerns, as the city will
need to act on the KCPC recommendation no later than October 1, 2004.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexing 11527 Wilson Road
Mayor Moriconi asked if council had any questions regarding the proposed
ordinance that would annex 11527 Wilson Road, a parcel that would extend the
Freedom Trail subdivision, which is within the city limits.
Council Members Dupps and Bushong commented that they were not in favor of
annexing this property into the city. Council Member Behler stated she was in
favor of the annexation as it would be an extension of the Freedom Trail
subdivision. Council Member Yeager expressed concern that by annexing this
property the city might be taking on the added responsibility of maintaining
Wilson Road. Mayor Moriconi agreed that he does not want to accept maintenance
of Wilson Road, but there may be police department issues with responding to
calls for service. Council Member Behler asked if similar issues exist in other
areas of the city. Chief Butler replied that it could cause some problems but
the city officers would work with the county police department to handle the
calls.
Council Member Brinker suggested the city review a map for possible areas to
annex in the future. Mr. Deters commented that this is a function of the Kenton
County Planning and Zoning Commission. Mayor Moriconi stated that the city’s
Budget and Economic Development Committed is currently looking at areas of the
city that can be annexed, especially along SR. 536 where development for light
industrial could be located. They will be meeting with the Transportation
Cabinet to discuss this matter. Council Member Behler stated she spoke with
Mike Schwartz of the NKPC about unincorporated areas that are already zoned for
businesses. Council Member Brinker asked if it was difficult to annex
commercial properties. Mr. Deters advised there are fewer property owners
involved but they are generally more prominent.
Discussion of a Proposed Ordinance Creating the Position of a Part-Time
Building Custodian
Council Member Dupps asked if it was necessary to require a bond for this
position since they would have access to the police department offices. Chief
Butler stated the access would be minimal.
Council Member Yeager stated she would like the job description for this
position to include language that ensures the hours worked would be in the
evenings to open and close the Senior Center for the renters of the building.
Chief Butler commented that there will be no guaranteed working hours for the
position and should be considered a scheduling issue not part of the job
description. Council Member Yeager suggested deleting the lifting weight limit.
She stated that she also wanted it clear that this position would be
responsible for the set up and tear down of the tables/chairs for the various
events and not just an assistant in performing this duty.
Discussion Regarding the Maintenance of the County Roads Within the City Limits
Chief Butler stated that the county is recommending that Cody Road be closed
and the county is willing to fund the construction of a cul-de-sac. He stated
that the county has studied the problem, laid out all the options and discussed
the situation with all the effected parties. Chief Butler also stated there is
a slippage problem on Cody Road. He stated that Kenton County now feels this
problem on Cody Road is a city issue and they believe the road needs to be
closed to through traffic due to safety concerns.
Chief Butler introduced two gentlemen from the Kenton County Public Works
Department, Charlie Meyer and Joe Murphy. Council Member Bushong asked what
portion of Cody Road that would be closed. They replied the bridge area, past
Upton Drive. Council Member Brinker was concerned how this closing would affect
the residents and asked if a traffic survey had been performed. They replied
that a traffic survey had been done and there was a daily count of 3,800 cars.
Council member Brinker wondered if this was high, low, or average. Chief Butler
stated that he had a copy of the traffic study and would provide council with a
copy of it.
Mr. Murphy advised they were here on behalf of the county regarding the Cody
Road issue and stated that the county is willing to pay the costs associated
with the closing, if the city will agree to close the road. Mr. Murphy advised
there is a site distance problem and initial studies indicate it will cost
millions of dollars to repair the bridge area as the water table is a major
problem. He stated that construction a new road connecting Upton Drive (which
is a private drive) and Troopers Crossing is also an expensive option. He
stated that with more traffic from the new subdivisions using Cody Road the
effectiveness of the floodgates is declining as people move the gates.
Mr. Deters advised council that it would take court action to close a street.
Mr. Murphy advised it would take a public hearing and stated the county had
been working on that and would like the city to continue with the county’s
plans to close the road.
Council Member Bushong asked about the mowing along the county roads. Mr.
Murphy advised the city should be receiving a letter from the county asking if
the city wants to join in a mowing contract, as it will be re-bid in the fall.
Chief Butler stated that the debate is on-going as to who is responsible for
the maintenance of the county roads running through incorporated cities. He
stated if we proceed with the closing of the road at the urging of the county
then we will be effectively accepting it as a city maintained road. Mayor
Moriconi commented that now was the opportunity to get this completely funded
by the county. Mr. Murphy stated it would run around $50,000-$70,000 to
construct a cul-de-sac. He stated the road slippage repairs have been estimated
at $500,000 - $600,000.
Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Deters how this issue would affect the city if
it winds up in court. Mr. Deters advised that in the interest of public safety
the city and county would need to come to an agreement outlining a game plan on
handling this particular road problem, then deal with the other road
maintenance issue separately, at a later time. Council Member Yeager stated she
would not agree to accept Cody Road for city maintenance.
Council Member Brinker stated he feels there will be strong opposition from the
residents on closing the road. Council Member Dupps stated he has many concerns
with regard to traffic flow. He stated that emergency vehicles would have to
take a longer way around. Chief Butler stated that emergency vehicles should be
stationed in the area.
Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to draft an agreement between the city and
county for the necessary repairs for Cody road for council to consider. Mr.
Deters stated that he is certain that a public hearing will be necessary to
close the road, but that he will research the matter further and advise council
how to proceed.
Request for Annexation by Dr. Dean Skinner
Mayor Moriconi introduced Dr. Dean Skinner who has eleven acres adjacent to the
Freedom Park subdivision that he would like to request the city annex. Dr.
Skinner stated that he has two reasons that he would like the city to annex his
property; the first reason being that he would like to tap into city water, and
the second reason is to construct his driveway accessing Tremont Drive in the
Freedom Park subdivision. Mayor Moriconi stated that from Tremont Drive it
would just appear like another driveway in the cul-de-sac, which would lead to
the house that Dr. Skinner wants to build.
Council Member Bushong advised Dr. Skinner that he would have to request water
lines from the Sanitation District. Mr. Deters asked what the current zone is
for the property. Dr. Skinner stated he did not know. Mr. Deters advised that
if he needed to modify the zone it could be done along with the annexation
process. He stated the city would want to control the zoning during annexation
in case he sells the property later. Council Member Brinker stated the city
would need to know what the current zone is as it may be appropriate as is.
Council Member Dupps asked the linear footage between the driveways. Dr.
Skinner did not know. Council Member Franzen asked if this would place another
house on the cul-de-sac. Mayor Moriconi stated it would not. Dr. Skinner stated
he would need to purchase a piece of land from a cul-de-sac owner in order to
construct a driveway. Mr. Deters asked if the property fronted on a dedicated
right-of-way and gave an explanation for this.
Council Member Brinker stated he would be in favor of this annexation as he
feels it is a no brainer. Council Member Yeager stated she would need more time
to consider this request. Council Member Behler stated she does not have enough
information to make a decision; she would like to know the current zone and if
it should be changed.
Mr. Deters advised Dr. Skinner that if he is contemplating annexation he should
ask the KCPC for a zone recommendation. He stated that Dr. Skinner would need
to get a map and a legal description of the parcel to file with the application
for the map change.
Discussion Regarding the NKAPC Building and Zoning “One Stop Shop Codes
Admininstration” Proposal
Mayor Moriconi advised council that the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission (NKAPC) has proposed a “One Stop Shop Codes Administration” program
that would require the city to enter into an interlocal agreement for zoning
administration, as well as building inspection and related services. He stated
that the proposal is an all or nothing plan, wherein the city would be required
to contract for the building services in order for NKAPC to handle the zoning
administration services for the city. He stated that in doing this the NKAPC
would assume all the city’s building inspection services as well as the fees
associated. Mayor Moriconi stated the residents would have to drive to
’’’’Fort’ ’’Mitchell’’ to obtain permits for pools, fences, decks, etc. He
stated that he did not feel this proposal was appropriate for
’’’’Independence’’ with the residential growth the city is experiencing. He
stated that if NKAPC will no longer contract with the city for zoning
administration, then he would like the city to hire its’ own zoning
administrator and bring this service in house for the residents.
Mr. Deters advised that the NKAPC is statutorily required to provide specific
services to the cities, one being subdivision review. Council Member Franzen
asked if Annie Wuestefeld, who is currently the NKAPC employee assigned to
Independence to provide zoning administration would be discontinued should the
city elect not to agree to NKAPC’s proposal. Mayor Moriconi replied yes.
Council Member Brinker commented that basically the city would not be permitted
to contract with NKAC for ‘ala carte’ services. He asked if NKAPC submitted a
formal proposal for the One Stop Shop Codes Administration service. Mayor
Moriconi stated that he was provided with a four-tier level of service
proposal. Council Member Behler stated she would like to see the proposal that
NKAPC submitted to the city.
Council Member Franzen asked the Mayor if Ms. Wuestefeld would consider coming
to work for the city. Additionally, she stated that she did not see the city
benefiting from letting the current building inspector, Kevin Barbian; go in
favor of contracting this service out with NKAPC. Council Member Yeager
commented that she felt the city would need to fill this position with a full-
time employee.
Mayor Moriconi agreed with Council Member Franzen and reiterated that he did
not feel this proposal was suitable for Independence. He advised that NKAPC
wants the city’s decision about this proposal by October 1, 2004. Mayor
Moriconi directed the City Clerk to provide each council member and the city
attorney with a copy of the One Stop Shop Codes Administration proposal that
was submitted by NKAPC.
Council Member Franzen asked how this proposal was supposed to benefit the
city. Mayor Moriconi stated that NKAPC feels their proposal will save the city
money by allowing them to collect all the associated fees and provide the
services. He stated that Mr. Barbian’s salary is paid entirely with the
building fees the city collects. He stated that his position is that he would
prefer to move in the direction in keeping Mr. Barbian on staff and hire an in
house zoning administrator. Council Members Yeager and Brinker stated they
would prefer to keep the building and zoning services in house. Council Member
Franzen agreed, and stated that she felt this was ultimately the Mayor’s
decision. Council Member Behler reiterated that she would like to review the
proposal before making a decision.
Discussion Regarding the Adoption of the Real and Personal Property Tax Rates
for 2004
The City Clerk, Ms. Taney presented for council’s consideration a proposed
ordinance that would adopt the real and personal property tax rates for 2004.
She stated the proposed rates are .184 per $100.00 of assessed value for real
property and .615 per $100.00 of assessed value for personal property other
than motor vehicles. Ms. Taney advised that these rates are the compensating
rate plus the four percent, which is the maximum allowed. She reminded council
that the 2004/05 budget adopted in June was based on the revenue that would be
generated by adopting the compensating rate plus four percent. Ms. Taney
explained that the required public hearing on the proposed tax rate would be
held at 6:30 p.m. on September 13, 2004 prior to the regularly scheduled
council meeting at which time a first reading would be presented for this
ordinance. She stated that in order to get the tax bills printed and mailed on
schedule it would be necessary to hold a special council meeting on September
20, 2004 at 6:45 pm, prior to the regularly scheduled caucus meeting at 7:00
p.m.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters reported that he sent a letter to Kenton County Judge-Executive
Ralph Drees regarding the county road maintenance issue and to date has not
received a reply.
Regarding the proposed political sign ordinance, Mr. Deters reported that he
has been inundated with calls and correspondence regarding the language content
and the constitutionality of this type of ordinance. He stated that the
ordinance language that was presented at the first reading needs to be
reconsidered for possible problems and perhaps needs more language in the
preamble than has currently been proposed. He advised council that he would do
further research on this as there are more stringent requirements with regard
to political and protected speech. He stated he would need additional time to
do this research so that he can be sure any ordinance that is adopted can
holdup in a court of law if challenged. Council Member Bushong asked if similar
ordinances adopted by other cities have ever been challenged. Mr. Deters stated
he is not aware of any. He stated there is no case in the Sixth Circuit Court
that addresses this issue. Mayor Moriconi advised the second reading of the
proposed ordinance would be postponed until Mr. Deters has researched this
further.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he did not have anything to report, but requested an
Executive Session to discuss a personnel matter.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that Chief Butler was awarded the Kentucky Police
Chief of the Year award and extended congratulations. Chief Butler stated it
was quite an honor and a highlight of his career. He stated the city has many
excellent employees and receiving this was an honor for the city. Mayor
Moriconi stated he was very proud of the Chief and said his receiving this
award is a big achievement.
Discussion of Miscellaneous Matters
Hawaiian Ice Vendor - Council Member Bushong asked if the city was monitoring
the mobile Hawaiian Ice vendor with regard to complying with payroll tax for
employees working the mobile unit. City Clerk, Ms. Taney advised that the
business license administration was handled through the Kenton County
Occupational License Director’s office. She stated that Mr. Harmon holds a
current city business license, but would check with the License Director’s
office to see if he was reporting payroll tax for employees. She reminded
council that Mr. Harmon had stated that volunteers from the football teams, who
in turn would receive a percentage of his profits, would most likely man the
mobile unit. This would be an opportunity for the football teams to raise funds
to support their team.
Kenton County Library - Council Member Dupps suggested that the city make a
formal request that the new library branch that is being constructed in the
unincorporated area in Southern Kenton county, just outside the city limits,
not be referred to as the Independence Library. He wondered if there was
anything the city could do to prevent this.
Kenton County Taxes – Council Member Yeager suggested the city send a letter to
the Kenton County Fiscal Court requesting the .133 tax rate that Independence
residents are assessed for road maintenance be provided to the city, since the
county now feels the city should take over maintenance of the county roads
within the city limits. She stated that if they are not going to maintain the
roads, and expect the city to do so, then they should give up the revenue to
the city. Mayor Moriconi commented that he has received many calls about this.
Council Member Behler asked if the city has commenced maintaining the county
roads within the city limits. Chief Butler replied that the city has only
responded to safety related matters on those roads. Council Member Behler
commented that if the city later learns that we are not required to maintain
the county roads, then we should back bill the county for these expenses. Chief
Butler commented that the city needs a resolution to this disagreement with the
county before winter, when snow removal will become a major concern.
Executive Session
Council Member Bushong moved to go into an executive session to discuss
personnel issues, in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (f), seconded by Council
Member Dupps. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the council
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
It is noted that no action resulted from the executive session discussion.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn,
seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting
ended at 8:55 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 13, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
September 13, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant of Grace Community
Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the Minutes of the August 2, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
2.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the August 2,
2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Dupps so moved, with a second from
Council Member Bushong. Amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the August 16, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the August
16, 2004 caucus council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
from Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 to accept the minutes as presented.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
4.   Mayor Moriconi announced that eighteen people signed in to address
council. He advised that everyone would be allotted three minutes to speak.
5.   Sherry Carran, 927 Forest, Covington, addressed council regarding the
development (Meadow Glen Subdivision) of the George Wolsing property on
Independence Station Road. She stated she is a representative of the Kenton
Conservancy and was speaking on behalf of the proposed Berling development. Ms.
Carran informed council that she has a letter of intent stating that the Kenton
Conservancy will take over the maintenance of the forty-three acre easement.
She stated that this forty-three acres of green space is a great addition for
Independence and Kenton County and that the Kenton Conservancy, a land trust
group, will workout the appropriate land restrictions for the maintenance of
this area. She stated that she supports the smaller lots proposed in this
development as it helps preserve the areas that need it.
6.   Council Member Bushong asked if the maintenance agreement that the
Conservancy is presenting would be perpetual. Ms. Carran responded that it
would be a permanent agreement and in the event that the Conservancy would
dissolve then another land trust would take over. Council Member Yeager asked
if the Conservancy would be taking over maintenance of the entire green space
in this development or just the nature area. Ms. Carran advised that the actual
boundaries had not yet been determined. She stated that a section of the green
space would be maintained by a Homeowners’ Association, including the retention
pond.
7.   Martin Butler, legal counsel for the Meadow Glen Development, presented
council with a list of conditions that his clients (Berling and Wolsing) are
submitting, the first six being the recommendations made by the Kenton County
Planning Commission (KCPC) and an additional ten provisions which were in
response to the concerns of the residents and city council. Mr. Butler stated
the additional conditions include:
·   A reduction of 35 lots; reducing the total number of lots from 415 to 385
·   Minimum lot size will be 60 feet in width at the building set back line
·   Lots located adjacent to the western boundary line will not be less than 80
feet in width at the building set back line
·   Upgrades to Webster Road to carry the additional traffic that will result
from the development
·   No curb cuts will be made from Webster Road to lots abutting upon the
western right of way line of Webster Road
·   The minimum rear yard set back line will be increased from 25 feet to 50
feet on those lots only whose rear lot line abuts along the western right of
way line of Webster Road including a 15 foot wide greenbelt area
·   The addition of a greenbelt area along the most easterly rear 15 feet of
the lots abutting along the western right of way line of Webster Road (“Webster
Greenbelt”). The establishment of a natural greenbelt area will prohibit the
removal of trees and shrubbery from within the area.
·   The establishment of a HOA (homeowners’ association) with an annual
assessment on lot owners to assure the maintenance and repair of the common
areas, exclusive of Wolsing Woods Park, with provisions that in the event of a
default of the HOA that title to the common areas shall automatically revert to
the developer, its successors and assigns.
·   Developer will plant pine or evergreen trees at least 4-6 feet in height
within the areas of Webster Greenbelt area within six months of commencement of
grading on the Wolsing property
·   Wolsing Woods Park will be subjected to a perpetual Declaration of
Restrictive Covenants restricting the use of the park property to green space
and a natural preservation area
8.   Council Member Bushong stated that he appreciated all the revisions they
made, addressing all the city’s concerns. He asked what the development time
frame would be. Mr. Butler stated that it was hard to predict, but they have
estimated it may take five years to complete the development. Council Member
Franzen asked if the retention pond would be maintained by the HOA. Mr. Butler
replied yes.
9.   Council Member Yeager asked the number of lots for each lot size. Mr.
Butler advised the breakdown is shown in the legend on the plat he distributed.
He stated the breakdown is: 80-foot lots 99, 70-foot lots 55, and 60-foot lots
218, for a total 372 lots.
10.   Mr. Deters informed council that he has reviewed the provisions of the
Homeowners’ Association restrictions and considers it much better than the
original one that was submitted to the city.
11.   Council Member Yeager express concern that Webster Road would not be
widened until nearing the completion of the development. She wondered why this
road improvement was not planned early in the development of this subdivision.
Mr. Butler advised that it is the logical direction of a development to
construct the roads as the development evolves. Mr. Jim Berling interjected
that the road could be widened midway through the development of the
subdivision.
12.   Greg Bridges stated he was a local builder and was speaking on behalf of
the Meadow Glen development. He stated he builds in this type of development
for moderate-income families, and that housing jumps in price on the larger
lots. He advised that a sixty-foot lot should be as marketable as a fifty-foot
lot.
13.   Scott Workman, 1049 Wedgewood Drive, Independence stated he is the owner
of Scott’s Towing Service. He stated he is taking issue with the policy the
city’s Police Department has with regard to the towing service. He stated that
he feels the city should change their policy by either bidding out this service
or using a rotation system similar to the county. He stated that he would like
to be a provider of the towing services needed by the city.
14.   Chief Butler responded to Mr. Workman’s concerns. He stated that the city
only using towing services when there is an arrest or an accident. He advised
that the city does not get part of the towing fee from the provider. Chief
Butler stated that he feels the rotation system is problematic, and while he is
satisfied with the service of the current towing provider, he would be glad to
use Mr. Workman as a backup. Mr. Workman was unwavering is in disagreement with
Chief Butler and stated that he should be given the opportunity to provide this
service. Council Member Bushong advised Mr. Workman that this was not a council
matter as the decision on which towing service to employ is an administrative
concern. Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Workman that his concerns are noted but
cannot be resolved at this meeting.
15.   Janine Moeller, 2789 Senour Road, stated she was here to speak on behalf
of the Meadow Glen development, advising that she supported it and believes
Fisher builds a nice community.
16.   Robert Sharpe, 5545 Cody Road, addressed council by stating that he would
like to tie into the water line that will be installed for the Meadow Glen
development. He stated that currently it has been cost prohibitive for some of
the residents on Cody Road.
17.   Mayor Moriconi advised that Kenton County has plans to repair the road
slippage on Cody Road and close the road on both sides of the train trestle. He
stated that Mr. Berling would have to address Mr. Sharpe’s request for water
lines.
18.   Mr. Jim Berling responded by saying the Northern Kentucky Water District
regulates the water lines, but that the lines would need to be extended
further, about 1500-2000 feet or more. He stated there are water lines on both
sides but they have never been connected.
19.   Council Member Dupps added that the city is not in the water business and
suggested Mr. Sharpe contact John Scheben at the Northern Kentucky Water
District. Mayor Moriconi asked how many homes on Cody Road might be interested
in public water service. Mr. Sharpe stated there are about 15 homes.
20.   Kip Mueller, 10386 Bugle Court, Independence, addressed council regarding
the Meadow Glen development by stating that he supported the zone change, and
as a subcontractor that has worked in many new developments he feels that
Fisher Homes builds nice communities. He stated that the smaller lots and homes
are affordable for firemen, nurses, teachers and policemen.
21.   David Rabe, 529 Independence Station Road, stated that his property (33
acres) adjoins the proposed subdivision. He stated that the people in
attendance at this meeting who are speaking in favor of the development don’t
even live in the area. He urged council to adhere to the 12,500-foot lots. Mr.
Rabe stated that the PUD zone was the worse thing to happen to Independence
zoning. He urged council not to grant the zone change being requested.
22.   Brian Fannin, 5152 Dana Harvey Lane, stated he is an employee of Fisher
Homes Company and supported the proposed zone change for the Meadow Glen
development. He stated he sees this as an opportunity to do something good for
Independence. He stated that people should have the opportunity to purchase
affordable, new housing. He also commented that the land use changes proposed
makes a model design which best utilizes the land for the residents who will
live there. Mr. Fannin stated this type of planned community appeals to a broad
spectrum of buyers as it meets the needs of new first time buyers as well as
retirees.
23.   Dan Arlinghaus, 400 Webster Road, Independence, spoke in support of the
Meadow Glen development and commented that Fisher Homes builds nice houses and
neighborhoods.
24.   Dave Arlinghaus, 551 Webster Road, Independence, stated that his property
adjoins the proposed development site of Meadow Glen subdivision. He stated he
has been in the construction business for thirty years and knows that Fisher
Homes does a good job and he welcomes Fisher Homes to his neighborhood.
25.   Michelle Herman, 345 Webster Road, Independence, addresses council
regarding the proposed Meadow Glen development. She stated she has been
struggling with this issue and is encouraged by the concessions made to the
plan by the developer. Ms. Herman informed council that the intent of a PUD
overlay is to provide diversification to a development plan. She advised that
the plan should be a mixed development that would include town homes, etc.;
that it should encompass more and she feels this plan clearly does not meet the
intent of the PUD zone as a PUD zone should enhance an R-1C zone. She stated
that she also has concerns about the strains on the public safety service
departments. Ms. Herman stated that she feels Independence already has an
abundant of starter homes for small families and needs more “move up” housing.
She stated the abundance of starter homes might make Independence a transient
community, without the next step up in housing.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-15 – Map Amendment 170 Acres Independence Stat. Road –
Meadow Glen Subdivision – (KCPC Application No. 1683R) – 2nd Reading
26.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-15 that would approve a map amendment changing an approximate 170-acre
area located along the south side of Independence Station Road between Webster
Road and Cody Road, approximately 800 feet west of Webster Road from R-1C to R-
1C (PUD). Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O-15 which included the six
conditions recommended by the Kenton County Planning Commission and
incorporating the additional ten development conditions consented to by the
developer.
27.   Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-15, seconded
by Council Member Bushong. Council Member Dupps asked if the additional
stipulations would necessitate a new first reading of the ordinance. Mr. Deters
advised that he did not deem the additional language to be significant enough
to revert to a new first reading. He stated that the type of zone request did
not change and the developer consented to the additional restrictions. Council
Member Brinker commented that since the developer has compromised and addressed
the city’s concerns regarding the surrounding infrastructure he feels the
development plan/map amendment is better than it was when first submitted to
the city for approval. Council Member Yeager asked if the recreational park
area was taken care of. Mr. Deters responded that the additional HOA provisions
would ensure that the park area is maintained. Council Member Yeager stated she
is still concerned that some of the lots are not 12,500 feet. Council Member
Behler commented that she feels the developer did an excellent job listening to
the city’s concerns. She added that the infrastructure issues need to be
improved sooner than later and urged the developers to ask the local
legislators to support state funding for city road improvements. There being no
further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-
0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-16 – Map Amendment of Mullins Property on 11527 Wilson
Road (KCPC Application No. 1682R) – 2nd Reading
28.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-16 that would approve a map amendment changing an approximate 56-acre
area located along the east side of Wilson Road and between Shaw Road and
Bramlage Road, approximately 1500 feet north of Bramlage Road, unincorporated
Kenton County, as a part of the annexation process, from R-1C and R-1B to R-1D.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O- 16.
29.   Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O- 16, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Council Member Yeager commented that she does not
see the language in the ordinance that will ensure the city does not end up
with street maintenance responsibilities for Wilson Road. Mayor Moriconi stated
he spoke to the attorney for the property owner who assured him that no houses
would face Wilson Road. Council Member Franzen stated she wanted to be sure of
this condition. Council Member Yeager stated she did not want the city to end
up annexing Wilson Road. Mr. Deters recommended adding an eighth condition that
inserts the appropriate language. He stated this has been discussed with Mr.
Mike Duncan, the property owner’s attorney, and will not constitute a
significant change to the ordinance.
30.   There being no further discussion, the roll was called and answered with
five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Dupps. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2004-O- 17 – Annexation of 11527 ––Wilson– Road – 2nd Reading
31.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-17 that would approve the annexation of the Mullins/Freedom Park, LLC
property consisting of approximately 56 acres, which property is the subject of
a re-zoning in ordinance No. 2004-O-16. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O-
17.
32.   Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O- 17, seconded
by Council Member Behler. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Franzen
asked if the same stipulation regarding the maintenance of Wilson Road should
also be incorporated into this ordinance. Council Member Bushong wondered if
this ordinance would counteract Ordinance No. 2004-O-16 approving the zone
change. Mr. Deters responded no to both concerns, adding that the two
ordinances interact. Council Member Dupps expressed his concerns with
overburdening the city services by annexing additional streets into the city.
Council Member Behler stated she agreed with council Member Dupps and advised
that the only reason that she supported this map amendment and annexation was
that is was the extension of an existing city development. She stated that it
was reasonable for the developer to request that the entire subdivision be
within the incorporated boundaries. She commented that she also favored the
addition of another egress for this subdivision. Council Member Franzen
concurred with Council Member Behler. Council Member Dupps commented that
Wilson Road will still be there. There being no further discussion, roll was
called and answered with five ayes and one dissenting vote cast by Council
Member Dupps. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2004-O- 18 – Creating the Position of Part-Time Building
Custodian – 2nd Reading
33.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-18 that would approve the creation of the position of part-time building
custodian. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O- 18.
34.   Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O- 18, seconded
by Council Member Behler. Council Member Bushong commented that he noticed in
the job description that this position would be the primary contact for the
opening and closing of the Senior Center, rather than the alternate. Mayor
Moriconi replied yes.
35.   There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O- 19 – Amending the Pay Plan to add the Part-Time Building
Custodian – 2nd Reading
36.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-19 that would approve the adoption of a personnel and pay classification
plan that would include the recently created position of building custodian.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O-19.
37.    Council Member Dupps moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-19, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-20 – Accepting Regal Ridge Drive as a City Street for
Maintenance Purposes – 2nd Reading
38.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-20 that would approve the acceptance of Regal Ridge Drive as a city
street for maintenance purposes. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O- 20.
39.   Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-20, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2004-O- 21 – Regulating “Gang” Mailboxes and Amending Ordinance
No. 1993-O-01 – 2nd Reading
40.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No.
2004-O-21 that would amend Ordinance No. 1993-O-01 and would approve regulating
the installation of Neighborhood Delivery and Collection Box Units (NDCBU),
commonly referred to as gang boxes/or cluster mail boxes. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2004-O- 21.
41.   Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-21, seconded
by Council Member Behler. Council Member Franzen referred to Section III of the
ordinance and asked Mr. Deters if this language constituted a “grandfather
clause”. Mr. Deters responded yes. Council Member Franzen wondered if this
ordinance would actually prevent the United States Post Office from installing
the cluster type mailboxes or if they would continue to do whatever they want.
Council Member Yeager suggested the city explain the problem the cluster
mailboxes present for the elderly. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2004 Tax Rates for Real & Personal Property – 1st
Reading
42.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that would set the 2004 tax rate for real estate at .184 for every
$100 of assessed value and .615 for every $100 of assessed personal property.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
43.   Mayor Moriconi advised that a second reading of the ordinance would take
place at a special council meeting on September 20, 2004 at 6:30 prior to the
regularly scheduled caucus meeting at 7:00 p.m.
Resolution No. 2004-R-09 – Supporting a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to
Mobile Food Vendors
44.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2004-R-09 supporting a
text amendment to the official zoning ordinance of the city to permit mobile
food vendors as a permitted use in the NSC zone. Mr. Deters read Resolution No.
2004-R-09.
45.   Mayor Moriconi reminded council that this was discussed at a previous
caucus meeting and was prompted by the request of the Hawaiian Ice food vendor,
who is currently stationed at Memorial Park. Council Member Yeager commented
that she thought the vendor would only be operating during football practices
and games. Mr. Deters advised council that approving this resolution is to make
application to the Planning Commission so that they can make a recommendation
to the city on these types of vendors and the appropriate zone for their
operation of business.
46.   Council Member Yeager moved to approve Resolution No. 2004-R-09, seconded
by Council Member Behler. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
County Road Maintenance Issue
47.    Chief Butler reported that the unresolved issue of the county informing
the local cities that they will no longer maintain county roads running through
incorporated city limits will be discussed at tomorrow’s Fiscal Court meeting.
He stated that to date, no progress has been made and the Fiscal Court has not
rescheduled a meeting that was postponed in July to discuss the matter with the
cities.
48.   Mr. Deters advised council that Judge Drees, in a letter he sent to the
city about a month ago, advised that a proposal would be forthcoming in two
weeks. At this time, that proposal is two weeks overdue.
49.   Council Member Bushong asked who was providing police protection to the
affected streets. Chief Butler advised that he has been working with the Kenton
County Police Department to handle all safety issues.
50.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the Mayor’s Group will be drafting a
collaborative letter to send to the Fiscal Court requesting a resolution to
this issue. Council Member Dupps asked if Judge Drees has responded to Fort
Mitchell’s Mayor, Tom Holocher’s letter. Mr. Deters replied no.
Cody Road Update
51.   Chief Butler reported that the Cody Road improvements are still in the
process of acquiring an engineering development plan. Mr. Deters advised that a
plan needs to be in place in order to begin the process. Council Member Bushong
asked if the area would no longer have school bus service. Chief Butler stated
that Mayor Moriconi received a letter from the Kenton County Schools
Superintendent, Dr. Susan Cook who requested the road be fixed, not closed. Mr.
Deters suggested contacting the school bus garage to get answers regarding the
bus situation.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
52.   Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
53.   Council Member Yeager asked about the progress of the property located at
the corner of Madison Pike and Independence Station Road, which was formerly an
Everyday convenience store. Mr. Deters commented that the property is in
bankruptcy court. She stated that she would like to see that property
maintained as it has become an eyesore in the heart of town and requested Mr.
Deters check on the status of the bankruptcy. She stated she would like to see
the city clean it up. Mayor Moriconi advised there is the issue of underground
gasoline tanks on the property. Council Member Dupps suggested the city take
the property by eminent domain to make way for a turn lane. Mr. Deters advised
that since the property is in bankruptcy court, that it may be prohibitive to
file for eminent domain. Mayor Moriconi suggested condemning the property. Mr.
Deters advised the city cannot take any adverse action while the property is in
bankruptcy court, but that he will check on the status of the case.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
54.   Mayor Moriconi congratulated Chief Butler on being the recipient of the
Kentucky State Police Chief of the Year award.
Adjournment
55.   There being no further business to discuss, Council Member Bushong moved
to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:23 pm.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky
September 20, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday September 20, 2004 at
7:00 pm at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Council Members Donna Yeager, Eric Dupps, Tom Brinker, Mary Pat
Behler and Carol Franzen answered roll call. Council Member Bushong was not in
attendance. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
No one signed in for privileges to address council.
OLD BUSINESS
There was no old business to be discussed.
NEW BUSINESS
Development Proposal by Fifth Third Bank
Mayor Moriconi advised council that he met with representatives of Fifth Third
Bank a few months ago to discuss their interest in adding another branch in
Independence. He stated they are looking at property located at the corner of
Independence Station Road and Turkeyfoot Road. He stated he has invited them to
attend this meeting to present their proposal to the entire council. Mayor
Moriconi introduced Mr. Jeff Smith, a Corporate Facilities Project Manager with
Fifth Third Bank.
Mr. Smith informed council that the property they are interested in acquiring
is not currently zoned for a bank. He stated they have already been told they
would be turned down by Northern Kentucky Area Planning for a re-zoning as the
property is less than the required minimum five acres. He stated the Planning
Commission considers this “spot zoning.” Mr. Smith stated with the planned
widening of Turkeyfoot Road, a deceleration lane would be added. Mr. Smith
stated Fifth Third Bank wants to be a good neighbor and provide products and
services to the citizens of the community. He stated their building design fits
very well into a residential community that resembles a cape-cod style of home.
He stated their proposal would also make it safe and easily accessible for
their customers. He stated a traffic study has been performed and a view of
what Turkeyfoot Road will look like as a four lane road. Mr. Smith stated they
have looked at the property from both a practical and commercial standpoint and
they do not feel anyone would have interest in developing this property at its
current residential zone since it is so close to the road.
Mr. Smith advised council they are before them to ask what they felt would be
the best avenue to pursue when making application to the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission. He asked if the city would be more inclined to consider a
zone change for this property that is less than five acres or a text amendment
with more restrictive conditions. He stated eventually the zoning may change in
the area when the Comprehensive Plan is updated. Mr. David Curle, a Senior
Project Architect with K4 Architecture, LLC stated that Fifth Third has found
this to be a good site. He stated there are several challenges with the
widening of Turkeyfoot Road that will reduce the lot size and the only egress
location for the bank would be close to the intersection. He stated they would
provide upkeep of site and good landscaping with a generous buffer. He stated
due to the narrow lot site the building would be squeezed in and permission
would be needed to place it as to not diminish the required buffer.
Council Member Behler asked how many feet they wanted to reduce the buffer. Mr.
Curle stated the normal buffer is 10 to 15 feet and they would like to reduce
it to 5 feet and add a decorative fence.
Mr. E.J. Foltz, an engineer with Cartec Engineering Corp. stated this site is
in the R-1D zone and the amount of the land needed for the bank structure is
1.4 acres. He stated he is aware that NKAPC will deny a zone change request
because the parcel is smaller than five acres.
Mr. Foltz stated they would like to request the city to consider a text
amendment with conditions that would be restrictive. He read the list of
current permitted businesses in the R-1D zone, which include libraries and
funeral homes. He stated he feels that eventually the zoning may change in the
area with the updates to the Comprehensive Plan. Mr. Foltz stated they would
like to see the city allow banks in this zone as a conditional use with
restrictions as they propose in the text they submitted to council to review.
Mayor Moriconi stated that Fifth Third Bank is essentially asking for a text
amendment so restrictive that things can’t just pop up anywhere or a zone
change which NKAPC will probably reject just based on the current Comprehensive
Plan. Mr. Foltz stated that he felt the lot was not conducive for the
construction of a residential building. He stated there is a high volume of
traffic in the area. He advised council that with a text amendment, the city
would still have control as they would be required to get approval for the
conditional use from the city’s Board of Adjustment.
Mr. Deters cautioned the discussion with council should stay within the realms
of a possible text amendment.
Council Member Behler asked why they feel this is a good location. Mr. Smith
stated Independence is a growing community and they look at many factors,
including population and location, as they prefer to be on an arterial street.
He stated they also like to locate in a community close to where people reside
which helps them forge good relationships with their customers.
Council Member Yeager asked when the five lanes on
Turkeyfoot Road would be constructed. Mr. Smith stated the year 2005, but that
is subject to change by the Department of Transportation. Council Member
Franzen asked if a traffic light will be installed at the intersection. Mr.
Smith stated there would be a light, along with two lanes in each direction
with a turn lane onto Independence Station Road. Mayor Moriconi asked if
Richardson Road will be rerouted to the north. Mr. Smith stated it would. Chief
Butler asked if their building plans would coincide with the road improvements,
because, from a safety standpoint, that intersection is one of the toughest in
the city. Mr. Smith stated they hope to have the bank constructed before the
road improvements are completed.
Mayor Moriconi stated they must decide if a bank is the best use for this land.
He stated he did not feel someone would want to build a home on this property.
Council Member Franzen expressed concern about the additional traffic the bank
may generate as it is already a dangerous intersection and more traffic will
only make it worse. Mr. Smith stated there is a very good chance there is
already a temporary construction easement on Independence Station Road that
could make the construction of the bank very difficult. He stated they may have
to postpone their construction until the fourth quarter of 2005.
Mr. Deters stated that while the council cannot discuss a possible zone change,
he recommended that Fifth Third Bank should submit double application, one for
a text amendment and one for a zone change and then the Planning Commission
staff can recommend on both, thereby incorporating all concerns.
Council Member Brinker stated he is not in favor of having banks in that area
even if the entrance is on Independence Station Road. He stated he is in favor
of a text amendment because it will be controlled through the Board of
Adjustments. Mayor Moriconi stated with the restrictive conditions language in
the proposed text amendment, it will let make the NKAPC aware of their
intentions.
Council Member Dupps stated he is not in favor of spot zoning, but agreed that
the planned road improvements will change the traffic conditions. He stated
there are already other businesses in the area.
Mayor Moriconi stated they could possibly have a proposed text amendment in
conjunction with a possible zone change at the same time. Council concurred
that Fifth Third Bank should apply for both a text amendment and zone change
concurrently. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to prepare a resolution to be
presented to council at the October 4, 2004 council meeting indicating the
city’s support of a text amendment application to the Planning Commission.
City Attorney Report - Jed K. Deters
No report
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
No report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Brinker has chosen Beechgrove Self-Storage
for the business of the month award.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that he attended a meeting on Saturday regarding
the county road maintenance issue. He stated the Kenton County Fiscal Court is
proposing to provide snow removal on the county roads that are within the
corporate limits of the city for a fee of $1,000.00 per mile. He stated they
estimate there is 16.9 miles of county streets in Independence and for
$16,900.00 the county will plow county roads for snow removal in the city. He
stated this is for snow plowing only, not regular street maintenance. Mr.
Deters stated regardless of how much it snows, if this is a package deal, then
it is a good deal if it covers the entire season.
Mayor Moriconi stated that minus the county roads the county is covering 75% of
our city streets and our public works is covering 25% of city streets during
snow removal. He stated this is a separate issue. He stated this is an
additional 16.9 miles that were county roads and that the county is now
considering to be the city’s responsibility. Mayor Moriconi stated when he
questioned the maintenance of the roads he was told by Judge Drees when it
comes time for maintenance on the county roads then the city should come back
to the county and advise which county roads are in need of repairs and they
will give us a bid.
Council Member Franzen expressed concern that if the city accepts this
agreement for snow removal they the city may be sending the message to the
county that we are going to accept the responsibility of these county roads.
Council Member Yeager agreed. Mr. Deters advised there are some questions as to
whether the city inherited the streets. He stated there are issues to be
resolved and during his research to date, wherein he has read the opinion
numerous times and while he does not agree with the opinion, he has not been
able to find holes that the city could use in a legal argument.
Mayor Moriconi distributed paperwork from the county showing the breakdown of
fees the county would charge the city for various road services. Chief Butler
stated the city does not have the staff to handle all of the roads and if it is
put out to bid, the county will be able to under bid any individual contractor.
Mayor Moriconi stated he feels the city could not beat this deal, $16,900 for
the entire snow season, if they did bid it out to a private contractor. He
expressed concern that the snow season was looming and that the city needed to
make preparations for the coming winter season. Council Member Yeager was
concerned that the city may pay $16,900 and then it wouldn’t snow all season.
Mr. Deters stated the city could enter into separate interlocal agreements with
the county; one for snow removal and one for road maintenance. Council Member
Yeager stated she still does not like the situation the city has been put in by
the county. Mayor Moriconi stated that the whole situation began when the
county advised the cities that they learned it was illegal for them to spend
funds on maintenance of county roads running through corporate city limits
without an agreement with the city. Council Member Franzen expressed concern of
how the city was going to have the funds to maintain this additional 16.9 miles
of streets on a budget that is already stretched.
Mr. Dennis Redmond, 1792 Forestrun Drive stated in 1985 there was a law passed
regarding the LGEA funds and asked if the county was going to get a reduced
amount now that they are turning their roads over to cities for maintenance.
Mayor Moriconi stated the county has indicated they would not surrender the
municipal road aid they currently receive as they indicate they are currently
operating at a loss. Chief Butler stated the county’s portion of state funds is
probably not much more than the city’s portion which is about $200,000.00
annually. He stated the law is clear that there is an increase/decrease change
every ten years, based on the census.
Mr. Dennis Koch asked if the county will take care of the side streets like as
they have in past years. Mayor Moriconi stated the city has a separate
agreement with the county that encompasses the maintenance of the city streets.
He stated the county has also agreed to handle the repairs of the Cody Road
slippage issue.
Mr. Mike Little stated he feels the county is using this for revenue
enhancement. He asked if the city is still going to pursue legal action against
the county and if other Northern Kentucky cities plan to fight this issue.
Mayor Moriconi stated no other city has been impacted like Independence. He
stated Taylor Mill has put a road tax referendum on the November general
election ballot. He stated no other city has attempted any legal action.
Council Franzen stated if the city accepts this snow removal agreement then the
city is allowing the county to do what they want. Mr. Deters advised that to
some extent, the city is agreeing with their decision that the county roads are
the responsibility of the city. Council Member Yeager stated the city did not
have to do this last year for the county to plow the county roads. Mr. Little
stated that if no other city is going to take legal action then the
repercussions of being able to sue is slim to none.
Council Member Brinker stated he feels our only hope is to work with Taylor
Mill. Mayor Moriconi stated they have a road tax on the ballot and have pretty
much said they are preparing to take over the county roads within their city if
the referendum fails.
Mr. Deters stated he disagrees with what the county is doing but cannot come up
with a legal argument to get around it. Council Member Franzen stated she
believes the city should ask the court for clarification on the issue.
In closing the discussion, Mayor Moriconi advised council that a snow removal
interlocal agreement with the county will be drafted for their review.
Zoning Violation – Old Circle K Store on Madison Pike at Independence Station
Road
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to expand on the status of the Circle K on
Madison Pike.
Mr. Deters stated the owners are in Chapter 7 of Bankruptcy Court. He stated if
the city wants to enforce a cleanup of the site the owner can be notified and
then a lien can be placed on the property and when it sells the city will
recoup its money. He stated the Zoning Administrator can send a zoning
violation notice and then we can proceed. He stated that any condemnation
cannot be done at this time due to the bankruptcy. Council Member Yeager
suggested the city condemn the property and raze the building. Mr. Deters
advised the city cannot do that as the building would have to be declared
structurally unsound, which it is not. City Clerk, Patricia Taney stated there
are also underground gas tanks on this property.
Council Member Brinker expressed concern regarding the set back line and that
it may not be useable property. Council Member Brinker suggested the zoning
enforcement officer keep check on the site and submit monthly update reports to
council.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi stated there being no further action, he entertained a motion to
adjourn.
Council Member Franzen so moved to adjourn, seconded by Council Member Behler.
Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:00 p.m.
                  ___________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 20, 2004
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, September 20, 2004 at 6:30 pm in the Senior Citizens and Community
Center, 2001 Jack Woods Parkway in Independence with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom
Brinker, Eric Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Jim Bushong was not in
attendance. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the city council was called to
discuss and possibly take action on the following agenda items:
·   Adoption of the 2004 property tax rates – Ordinance No. 2004-0-22 – Second
Reading
·   Zoning Administration – Executive Order No. 2004-EO-05
Ordinance No. 2004-0-22 - Adopting 2004 Real & Personal Property Tax Rates -–
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt the property tax rates for 2004. Council Member Dupps moved to
adopt Ordinance 2004-0-22, setting the 2004 real estate tax rate at .184 per
$100.00 of assessed value and the personal property tax rate at .615 per
$100.00 of assessed value; seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called
and answered unanimously and the motion carried 5-0.
Executive Order No. 2004-EO-05 - Zoning Administrator Position
Mayor Moriconi stated this position came up when Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission advised the city that they would cease providing the city
with zoning administration services unless the city also contracted for
building inspection services. He stated that basically it had to be an “all or
nothing” contract with the Planning Commission. Mayor Moriconi advised he plans
to bring the zoning services in-house and announced that Annie Wuestefeld could
continue to do the zoning for the city, as a city employee. Council Member
Yeager asked if she would resign from her position at the Planning Commission.
He stated that he has discussed the position with her and she has agreed to
take the position with the city. Council Member Yeager asked if she would work
a 5-day week. Mayor Moriconi stated that Annie would be available four days
each week instead of the current three days she is now working and added that
it would be exclusively for Independence unlike her current situation with the
Planning Commission where she also provides zoning service for other
municipalities. He stated she will report to Mr. Kevin Barbian, Building
Inspector and assist him when needed as she is a certified building inspector.
Mayor Moriconi clarified that while he did not actively pursue this change of
contracting out the zoning administration to bringing the service in-house, he
reminded council that having a staff member perform this service was a
recommendation made by the Budget and Finance Committee last spring. He stated
there will not be a big change in the budget but it will have to be amended
$2,000.00 to $4,000.00 later this year.
Council Member Dupps asked if a regional building/zoning service was initiated
by the county. Mr. Deters responded that the “one stop shop” concept was
initiated by the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission. Mayor Moriconi
stated that the Planning Commission wanted Independence to be a part of this
interlocal service they were proposing. He stated that bringing Annie on board
as a city employee will be a win/win for the city. Council Member Franzen asked
if Annie will be able to be of assistance to Kevin Barbian, Building Inspector.
Mayor Moriconi advised that Annie would report directly to Mr. Barbian and
would assist him as needed.
Council Member Dupps asked if Mrs. Wuestefeld would receive benefits. Mayor
Moriconi stated she would be considered a part-time employee and as such would
only receive retirement benefits. He stated Chief Butler has an older, spare
cruiser available for that would be assigned to Annie.
In closing, Mayor Moriconi advised that as of October 1, 2004 the Planning
Commission will no longer perform zoning administration services for the city.
He stated that the Building Inspector could use some assistance and he feels
the addition of Annie to the city staff would be a natural fit. He stated it
could be difficult to fill this position with the appropriate person; one that
has all the necessary qualifications to perform this job and one that wants
only part-time work.
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2004-EO-05, appointing Annie Wuestefeld
as the Zoning Administrator for the city and requested a motion to approve the
appointment. Council Member Behler moved to adopt Executive Order No. 2004-EO-
5, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to adjourn the special meeting. Council
Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 6:35 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 4, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
October 4, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Kenton County Courthouse in Independence
with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting
to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Lisa May of Staffordsburg
Christian Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric
Dupps, and Carol Franzen. Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Donna
Yeager’s mother passed away about two hours ago and that she would not be
attending tonight’s meeting. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Recognition
2.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Brinker had selected
Beechgrove Self-Storage as the recipient of the Business of the Month, but
since the owner was not present, we would present the plaque at next month’s
meeting. He advised two businesses would be recognized next month.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 13, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September
13, 2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Behler so moved, with a second
from Council Member Bushong. There being no amendments, roll call was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the September 20, 2004 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September
20, 2004 Special council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
from Council Member Dupps. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0 to accept the minutes as presented
Approval of the Minutes of the September 20, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September
20, 2004 caucus council meeting. Council Member Behler so moved, with second
from Council Member Brinker. No amendments were noted and roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0 to accept the minutes as presented.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
6.   Mayor Moriconi announced that no one signed in to address council under
Privileges of the Floor, so they would proceed with the agenda.
Resolution No. 2004-R-10 – Supporting a Text Amendment to Permit Banks as a
Conditional Use in the R-1D Zone
7.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2004-R-10 that would
support a text amendment to the Zoning Ordinance to permit banks and banking
institutions as a conditional use in the R-1D zone. Mayor Moriconi reminded
council that this proposed text amendment comes at the request of Fifth Third
Bank who presented a plan to the city at the last caucus meeting to construct a
bank at the intersection of Turkeyfoot Road and Independence Station Road.
8.   Council Member Behler moved to adopt Resolution No. 2004-R-10, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Franzen asked
if the city was going to stipulate that a traffic light had to be installed at
the intersection before the bank is construction. Mr. Deters advised that
council would have the opportunity to impose that condition when the zone
change request is presented to the city for approval. Council Member Dupps
asked about the current traffic plan for Turkeyfoot Road. He stated that he did
not think Fifth Third Bank would want to wait too long to construct this
branch. Police Chief Butler stated that he believes the reconstruction of
Turkeyfoot Road is still on schedule, but that it will probably be two years or
so before a traffic light will be installed at that intersection. Council
Member Franzen stated that the city needs additional businesses in the city,
but this particular intersection is already hazardous and wondered if the city
could get the traffic light installed sooner. Council Member Bushong advised
that the road plans call for the intersection to be relocated and he thinks it
will be a long time before the corner will be completed. Chief Butler suggested
the text amendment language include both banks and professional office
buildings. Council agreed. Council Member Bushong commented there are several
areas in the city that could benefit from this type of development. Mayor
Moriconi instructed Mr. Deters to add the additional language to the text
amendment proposal. No roll was called; the motion to adopt Resolution No.
2004-R-10 was passed with all ayes. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2004-R-10
including the additional language as discussed.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 Establishing Sunday
Liquor Sales – 1st Reading
9.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that would amend Ordinance No. 2003-O-08. He asked Mr. Deters to
explain why it was necessary to amend the current ordinance regulating Sunday
liquor sales. Mr. Deters advised that the current Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 does
not make a distinction of liquor sold by the package or drink. He stated that
the amendment specifies the difference and clarifies by the drink after 1:00
p.m. Council Member Bushong asked if there was a difference for establishments
like Kroger’s or a regular liquor store. Mr. Deters replied no, that all
businesses that possess a liquor sales license fall under the same state laws.
There being no further discussion Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor
Moriconi advised the second reading would be held at the next council meeting.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
10.   Chief Butler reported that Northern Kentucky University donated a ten-
piece nautilus set to the city for use in fitness room of the new Municipal
Center. He thanked NKU.
11.   Chief Butler reported that Scott Kimmich, Kenton County’s Deputy Judge-
Executive, has advised that the county will charge the city $1,000 per road
mile for snow removal maintenance of the sixteen miles of county roads which
may or may not be the responsibility of the city. He stated that Mr. Kimmich
advised the county would be sending written notice of this proposal. Council
Member Bushong asked if the county is proposing a flat $16,000 for the entire
winter season, regardless of the number of times it becomes necessary to treat
the roads due to snow and/or ice this winter. Chief Butler responded yes, that
is how he understands the county’s proposal. He stated he hopes to have a
written proposal soon.
12.   Council Member Franzen asked if this expense would come from regular tax
dollars or the state Municipal Road Assistance fund. Mr. Deters advised he has
sent a letter to the county regarding the issue of state funds but has not yet
received a reply.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
13.   Mr. Deters advised that he has nothing to report, but stated he would
need council to call an Executive Session to discuss a personnel related issue.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order No. 2004-EO-06 – Making three appointments to the Senior Board
of Directors
14.   Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2004-EO-06 appointing three
individuals to the Senior Center’s Board of Directors. He read the executive
order appointing Lee Myers, Bill St. John and re-appointing Council Member
’’Donna Yeager’ to the Board. He stated that brief bios for Mr. Myers and Mr.
St. John were attached to the executive order. He stated that Mr. Myers was
present at this meeting and he thanked Mr. Myers for volunteering to sit on the
Senior Board. Mayor Moriconi requested that council approve his appointments.
15.   Council Member Bushong moved to approve Executive Order No. 2004-EO-06,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was not called; motion carried with
all ayes.
Announcement that City has been awarded T-21 Grant Funds from the State for
Sidewalks Along Madison Pike
16.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Senator Damon Thayer called him today to
report that the city has been awarded $159,814.00 in T-21 grant funds that will
make it possible for the city to install sidewalks along Madison Pike. Mayor
Moriconi stated the walkways would connect Summit View Schools and Kenton
Elementary. He stated this has been a project he has been working on for some
time; one that will provide a level of safety for the children attending all
the schools along Madison Pike. Mayor Moriconi advised council that the city
would be required to match the grant by twenty percent resulting in about
$39,000 of city funds.
Events at the Memorial Park Amphitheater, Senior Center and Annual Christmas
Walk & Tour
17.   Mayor Moriconi reported that Recreation Director, Nita Brake was able to
raise $4,000 for the performances in the first year of events at the Memorial
Park Amphitheater. He thanked her for the success of the events.
18.   Mayor Moriconi reported that the Drama Director at Simon Kenton High
School would be presenting the Legend of Sleepy Hollow at the Amphitheater on
Tuesday, October 26, 2004 at 6:30 pm. Other performances at the Amphitheater
include a presentation of Alice in Wonderland on Saturday, October 30, 2004. He
advised that all performances were free to the public. He stated that the city
would begin accepting private and corporate donations to fund next year’s
concerts and other performances at the Amphitheater.
19.   Mayor Moriconi also announced that a children’s magic show would be
presented on Saturday, October 30, 2004 at the Senior Center.
20.   Mayor Moriconi announced that this year’s annual Christmas Walk & Tour
has been scheduled for Friday, December 10th from 7-9 pm.
21.   Mayor Moriconi stated that this could possible be the last official
council meeting held at the Independence courthouse as the new Municipal Center
as the opening of the new Municipal Center would be sometime next month.
Cancellation of the Regularly Scheduled November 1, 2004 Meeting
22.   Council Member Brinker made a motion to cancel the regularly scheduled
November 1, 2004 council meeting as it occurs the eve of Election Day and
schedule a special meeting for November 8, 2004 to replace the cancelled
meeting. Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Miscellaneous
23.   Council Member Franzen stated she would like to thank the developers who
cooperate with the city officials when working on development plans. She stated
this spirit of cooperation helps the city manage the growth issues.
Executive Session
24.   Council Member Bushong moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (f) to discuss a personnel related issue,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
25.   Council Member Bushong moved to re-convene the regular session of the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes. (The
minutes reflect that at the resumption of the regular session no action was
necessary as a result of the executive session.)
Pembroke Village Subdivision – Developer Request for Waiver of Turn Lane on Cox
Rd
26.   Mayor Moriconi reported that the city is in receipt of a copy of a
correspondence that the state Highway Department has sent to the developer of
Pembroke Village subdivision, wherein it is stated that the imposed condition
of a turn lane on Cox Road does not meet state requirements for such. He stated
that Mr. Berling, representing the developer for Pembroke Village has made an
appeal of the Kenton County Planning Commission requesting a waiver the imposed
condition for a turn lane on Cox Road. Mayor Moriconi advised council that
residents in the area object to the possibility that this turn lane may be
waived and are requesting the city take an active role in ensuring that Cox
Road will have adequate improvements to handle the additional traffic this
development will produce. Mayor Moriconi advised the matter will be considered
at the Planning Commission’s Subdivision Review Committee on Thursday, October
7, 2004.
27.   City Attorney, Mr. Deters advised council that the city couldn’t force
the state to alter their highway. Council Member Bushong asked how the city
could become involved in this issue. Mr. Deters commented that the city does
not have a right-of-way and essentially no control in the dispute. Council
Member Bushong suggested the city send a letter to the state Highway Department
expressing future traffic concerns. Mayor Moriconi stated that when the Kenton
County Planning Commission approved the development plan submitted by the
developer, constructing a turn lane on ’’’’Cox Road’’ was a condition that the
Planning Commission imposed when approving the plan, and which the developer
agreed to comply with. Council Member Franzen suggested the city ask the
developer to uphold his agreement to install a turn lane. Council Member Behler
suggested the city speak with the state representatives to get the state
highway department’s decision overturned. Council Member Brinker stated that
the turn lane was a condition of the re-zoning that was approved by the
Planning Commission and city. Council Member Behler stated it shouldn’t be any
different if it is a state maintained road. Mr. Deters advised that since it is
a state road, that the state has the right to override a city-imposed
condition.
28.   Mayor Moriconi directed the City Clerk to check with the Planning
Commission to inquire if the city has the final approval and what options may
be available to the city. Council Member Franzen suggested sending a letter to
the Planning Commission requesting they uphold the condition of the approved
plan that includes the installation of the turn lane on Cox Road. Council
Member Bushong suggested the letter be hand-delivered. Mayor Moriconi stated
the letter could be faxed to the Commission.
29.   Council Member Behler moved to support the construction of a turn lane on
Cox Road by the developer of the Pembroke Village Subdivision as was a
condition of the original plan approval by the Planning Commission, seconded by
Council Member Dupps. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business to discuss, Council Member Franzen moved to
adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 7:50 pm.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 18, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
18, 2004 at 7:00 pm at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Donna Yeager, Mary Pat Behler,
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric Dupps and Carol Franzen answered roll call. Also
present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mike Little, 10987 Griststone Circle addressed council regarding a call from
Diane Glaser advising him that the Scherry Drive street sign does not have a
“c” in the spelling. City Clerk, Patricia Taney stated she would see how the
street name was platted and get back to him.
Ken Lancaster, 733 Cox Road addressed council regarding zoning violations
behind Cherokee Shopping Center. He stated according to zoning regulations,
dumpsters are required to be screened on at least three sides and there are
also four dumpsters there. He presented to Mayor and Council photos of trash on
the site. He also stated the streetlights glare on his property. He stated with
the storage of parked trucks, they should also be screened. Mayor Moriconi
stated he would advise the zoning administrator to make an inspection of the
site.
OLD BUSINESS
Discussion Regarding a Proposal from Kenton County Fiscal Court for Various
Services
Mayor Moriconi stated the city has received a letter from Kenton County Fiscal
Court defining the proposals and related costs for providing the city with
various services such as snow removal, fleet vehicle maintenance, etc. He
advised that the letter from Judge-Executive Drees states that fleet
maintenance gasoline will be increased by 3 cents per gallon surcharge plus a
15% handling charge. The rate for culvert, ditch work and patching road holes
is being raised from $52.50 to $67.00 an hour. He stated all the services that
the county provides will be substantially increased. Mayor Moriconi advised
council that he has discussed this proposal with Chief Butler and they have
decided they will look into the possibility of eliminating county services and
may bid out for services, including snow removal.
Council Member Bushong asked Mayor Moriconi if he had spoke to Jeff Smith,
Public Works about a survey on additional staff to his department so that some
of these services could be handled in-house. Chief Butler stated they are
looking into that possibility but even though it might be cheaper than using
the county we have to factor in the cost of wages, including benefits to hire
additional Public Works personnel. Mayor Moriconi stated with a normal snowfall
of three to five inches, the county sends out four trucks, plus our two trucks
and it takes about five hours with those six trucks. Chief Butler stated some
switch of services has already taken place, as the police cruises are now
having oil changes done at the Valvoline on Madison Pike as they charge less
than the county garage. He advised he is also looking into fleet management
services for the purchase of gasoline. He stated he is also checking into car
dealer’s hourly rate for vehicle maintenance and repairs. Chief Butler
expressed concern on whether the county could legality charge the cities a 15%
handling fee on vehicle parts that are state contract bid and asked City
Attorney Deters to research this.
Council Member Bushong asked Mayor Moriconi if this proposal by the county for
these services was discussed at the recent Mayor’s Group meeting. Mayor
Moriconi stated that the other cities are not getting hit as bad as
Independence, as Independence is much larger than many of the other cities in
Northern Kentucky.
Council Member Yeager stated that she checked on fuel prices that large
corporations like Cinergy, Cincinnati Bell and UPS are paying and feels the
city needs to get look into acquiring the state road funds the county is
receiving. Mayor Moriconi stated it would probably take a court action to
handle the road situation. Chief Butler stated from an employer standpoint,
there are two issues to address; one being the roads and the other is fleet
maintenance and fuel. He stated they need some guidance from council on whether
to challenge the county on the road maintenance issue, or move on and do what
we need to do to get cheaper prices and discontinue reliance on the county for
various services. Council Member Franzen asked if the city could contract out
other areas of services. City Attorney Deters stated he did not feel it was
feasible to challenge the road issue, but feels the city could challenge other
duties the county, which are currently performed on the city’s behalf. Chief
Butler stated he would look at all of the issues very carefully. Council Member
Bushong asked if the county is going to dictate the services the city would
have to contract with them for and would the city be able to select the
services we actually need from them. Mayor Moriconi stated the Scott Kimmich,
Deputy Judge-Executive, is going to send a memorandum of understanding breaking
down the various services that will be offered and the associated costs and the
cities can choose the services they need from the county.
Mayor Moriconi stated that City Attorney Deters will research the municipal
road aid monies the city and county are receiving and maybe the city can obtain
a portion of the funds that the county is currently receiving from the state.
Council Member Dupps asked if the city does not contract with the county garage
for vehicle maintenance then who would do the maintenance. Chief Butler stated
the city would solicit several Ford Dealers in the area for contract prices to
see if they are compatible or comparable to what the city is presently paying
the county. Council Member Bushong asked if the city could opt out of county
services after one year with a 30-day option. City Attorney Deters stated it is
his understanding that the proposal submitted by the county would not be an
exclusive service contract, therefore the city would be able to obtain other
services elsewhere. Mayor Moriconi stated he would keep everyone updated on the
situation.
NEW BUSINESS
Proposed Zoning Text Amendment in the NSC Zone - NKAPC Application No. 1697R
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed text amendment would add
automobile laundry as a permitted use or conditional use within a neighborhood
shopping commercial zone. Council Member Yeager stated she had spoken to a
resident regarding this and they felt it would attract a criminal element.
Council Member Franzen stated she also spoke to the same resident regarding the
entrance and exit to the car wash being on Cox Road due to new residential
construction entering and exiting from Cox Road. Council Member Bushong stated
the Planning Commission thought this car wash was going to be constructed in
the Independence Town Center area. Mayor Moriconi asked City Clerk, Patricia
Taney if the city was the applicant for the text amendment and if the Planning
Commission has had the public hearing on this application yet. Ms Taney stated
the application had gone before the Planning Commission and it had been
partially approved and disapproved. She stated the request was for a text
amendment as a permitted use or a conditional use in the NSC zone and that the
Planning Commission has denied approval of adding text that would allow it to
be a conditional use, which then would have allowed the city’s Board of
Adjustments to decide each individual application. She stated the Planning
Commission has recommended approval for adding text to the zoning ordinance
that would allow an automobile laundry as a permitted use, thereby making it
unnecessary to go before the Board of Adjustments and would only need approval
from the city’s Zoning Administrator.
Ms. Blanche Bedell, 6402 Jimae, asked who requested the city to make
application for this text amendment. Ms. Taney stated no one came before
Council, but instead stopped by the city office and requested a signature on
the text amendment application. She stated she did not know the person. Ms.
Taney stated the city is being asked to either approve or disapprove a text
amendment that would affect the entire city, not a particular individual’s
building plan. Mrs. Bedell stated if this is for Mr. Neltner, he could go
either place in the shopping center. She also asked if City Attorney Deters was
also the attorney for Mr. Neltner. City Attorney Deters stated he was not.
Mayor Moriconi stated this would be voted on at the Special Council Meeting
scheduled for November 8, 2004.
Fischer Homes-Clover Ridge Subdivision-Request for a Waiver of Cluster
Mailboxes
Mayor Moriconi stated a packet from Fischer Homes was received for council to
review and introduced Mr. Greg Fischer, the construction manager at Fischer
Homes. Mr. Fischer stated he was new to the community as the Construction
Manager for Clover Ridge Subdivision. He stated he was not familiar with the
city’s ordinance banning cluster mailboxes. He stated that the entire
development has cluster mailboxes and with the subdivision in the last phase of
construction, he would like to continue to install the last three cluster
mailboxes and requested the city to waive enforcement of the ordinance that
prohibits them. Mayor Moriconi asked how the mailboxes were approval to be
installed. Mr. Fischer stated these cluster mailboxes were obviously installed
by Fischer without notice and was not aware of an Ordinance that was passed in
1999 to ban cluster mailboxes. City Clerk, Ms. Taney stated the original
ordinance banning cluster mailboxes was enacted in 1993 and has since been
amended.
City Attorney Deters asked if it was possible to change the mailboxes by way of
the Homeowners Association. Mr. Fischer stated that in some Homeowner’s
Associations you would need 70% approval to change the mailbox styles. Council
Member Franzen stated Fischer Homes was the major developer in her subdivision
(Liberty Orchard) and they installed $12.00 mailboxes in everyone’s front yard
and they were all uniform. She stated when other builders developed the back
end of the subdivision the property owners were permitted to install their own
mailboxes. She stated she did not feel that should be an issue and that Fischer
should remove all the cluster mailboxes in Clover Ridge and individual mail
boxes be installed. Mr. Greg Fischer stated since he learned about the
ordinance, Sycamore Creek has already been changed to individual mailboxes.
Terry Laughlin, 9653 Cloveridge Drive stated she has a degenerative muscle
disease and it is painful for her to stand for long periods of time. She stated
she did not see any cluster mail boxes when they visited the subdivision before
buying their home. She stated that she favors individual mailboxes over the
cluster mailboxes that Fischer has installed.
Leslie Balch, 3046 Saddlebred Court addressed Mayor and Council regarding the
installation of cluster mailboxes installed by Fischer Homes. She stated she is
a post office employee and she knows the cluster mailboxes should not have been
installed. She stated the cluster boxes are tacky looking and also a hazard for
residents during bad winter weather.
Mayor Moriconi stated the mailboxes are actually illegal, and asked Council how
they would like to proceed, given Mr. Fischer’s request for a waiver. Council
Member Franzen stated to Mr. Fischer that she understands that he has inherited
this dilemma, but Fischer Homes has illegally installed these postal units. She
stated they need to removed and let the residents install their own individual
mailboxes. Mr. Fischer stated he did not know the procedure on removing the
cluster mailboxes. Mayor Moriconi stated the post office owns the cluster
mailboxes and will remove them at Mr. Fischer’s request.
Council Member Yeager asked if there was a form letter available for all the
developers and builders making them aware of this ordinance. City Clerk, Ms.
Taney stated she has discussed this with the Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian,
and the city is going to devise a way to contact each developer or homebuilder
of this ordinance. Mrs. JoAnne Cobble stated she feels this is a major problem
that has slipped through the cracks and there is a problem with our building
and zoning. Council Member Franzen stated she did not feel cluster mail boxes
present a “major problem” in the city. Ms. Taney stated cluster mailboxes are
not one of the construction requirements that the Building Inspector checks.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Shawn Butler reported to Mayor and Council that Officer Kevin Gill
resigned as of today. He stated we do wish him well but he was injured in the
line of duty some time ago and will be applying for his state pension. He
stated with the injuries he received, Officer Gill can never return as a police
officer. Chief Butler stated again everyone wishes him and his family well.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi asked Council Member Bushong to select a business of the month
for November. Council Member Bushong stated he would get back to the Mayor on
his choice.
Memorial Park Practice Field Agreement
Council Member Franzen stated she had received a letter from the South Kenton
Lions asking for a more permanent arrangement with the city for the use of the
fields at Memorial Park. She stated they do not want to change any terms on the
agreement, but want to extend the arrangement for three to five years, instead
of a yearly arrangement. Mr. David Nolan stated they just want to be assured of
a place for the kids to practice. City Attorney Deters stated there is a
premise in the law regarding municipalities not being allowed to bind future
public entities for too long. He stated this council couldn’t make a decision
that would normally bind future decisions like this request, for a new council.
Mr. David Nolan stated he has heard from numerous people that in the “past
minutes” the park was given to them to use as a practice facility. City
Attorney Deters stated he would see if a long-term agreement could be drawn up.
Budget Amendment
Mayor Moriconi stated coming up there will be a first reading to amend the
budget to account for the T-21 Grant, which are for the installation of
sidewalks. He also stated that the budget amendment would note snow removal
expenses will be changed to $1,000.00 a mile and the $68,000.00 that was
allocated for ALS (Advanced Life Support) services to the residents.
Mayor Moriconi stated that Chief Butler has informed him that the Public Works
Department will have to vacate their headquarters on Cox Road that is currently
being leased from the Independence Fire District sometime in 2005. He stated
the Fire District would be bulldozing the building to construct a new fire
station on the east side of town.
Selling of Old Administration Building
Mayor Moriconi stated the old city building has been sold and the closing would
be Wednesday, October 20, 2004. He stated the ribbon cutting for the new
Municipal Center would be held on October 23, 2004 at 4:00 pm and invited
everyone to come and tour the new building.
Adjournment
There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member Brinker and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion was carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:15 pm.
                        _____________________________
                        Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger,
Assistant City Clerk
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 8, 2004
Special Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
of the Council on Monday, November 8, 2004 at 7:00 pm in the Senior Citizens
and Community Center, 2001 Jack Woods Parkway in Independence with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric
Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced that this special meeting of the city council was
called to discuss and possibly take action on the following agenda items:
·   A proposed design of a Cox Road turn lane
·   Voluntary annexation request by Jim and Helen Kudera for property located
on McMillan Drive – Resolution No. 2004-R-11
·   A proposed zoning text amendment that would add ‘auto laundry’ in the NSC
zones – Resolution No. 2004-R-12
·   A proposed Stage II development plan for Shadybrook Trails Subdivision and
ratifying the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission
·   Amendment of Ordinance 2003-O-08 that establishes Sunday Liquor Sales
Ordinance No. 2004-O-23 – 2nd Reading
·   Amendment of Ordinance 2004-O-11 adopting the annual city budget for 2004/
05
1st Reading of the Proposed Ordinance
·   An executive session (only if necessary)
Proposed Design of a Turn Lane on Cox Road
Mayor Moriconi presented to council the idea of widening Cox Road at the
intersection of Taylor Mill Road (St. Rt. 16). He stated this proposal would
address the residents concerns that were voiced at the last meeting regarding
the Pembroke Village developer’s request to waive the turn lane on Cox Road’’
that was a condition of the development plan approved by the Kenton County
Planning Commission. Council Member Bushong commented that the original turn
lane proposed on Cox Road at the subdivision entrance would only accommodate
three cars. Mayor Moriconi stated that the proposal to extend the turn lane to
the intersection of Taylor Mill Road would be a separate issue. He advised that
it might be possible to acquire state funds that are specifically used for
congested intersections. He stated he would like to direct the city engineer to
actively work on a design to improve traffic flow at that intersection. Council
Member Dupps commented that it makes sense to look at improving the roadway, as
the traffic conditions will only worsen in the future. Council Member Behler
asked if state funds are available and if the city would have to fund some of
the improvements. Mayor Moriconi stated he was not sure, but it was a
possibility that the city may have to fund one-half of the project. He stated
he would like to direct the city engineer to design a turn lane then the city
could submit the proposal to the state with a request for assistance. Council
Member Brinker asked if the city engineer would charge an hourly rate to do the
design work. Chief Butler commented that the developer has already done a
traffic study, so it would only be necessary to fund the design work by the
engineer at his regular hourly rate.
Council Member Yeager asked when the developer was scheduled to have the public
hearing on the request for a waiver for installing a turn lane into the
Pembroke Village subdivision. Council Member Bushong stated that the public
hearing was postponed until next month. Mayor Moriconi commented the short turn
lane that the developer has been required to install on Cox Road may only
worsen the traffic flow at that site. Council Member Behler asked if a traffic
light could be installed at the intersection of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road.
Chief Butler replied that although the city has been denied a request for a
traffic light in the past that it may possibly be granted this time.
Council Member Behler made a motion to direct the city engineer to review the
Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road intersection and design a turn lane on Cox Road
between Taylor Mill road and the entrance into the Pembroke Village
subdivision. Council Member Bushong seconded the motion. Council Member Yeager
commented that she favors requesting funds from the state and possibly the
developer of the subdivision. Council Member Dupps asked what other recourse
would be available to the city if the developer does not install the turn lane
into the subdivision as he previously agreed. Mayor Moriconi stated the city
would proceed in trying to get state assistance. Chief Butler commented that
both roads are state maintained. Council Member Franzen expressed concern that
since the state does not feel this development will generate the additional
traffic that would meet their requirements for a turn lane; they probably will
not be willing to fund road improvements to the site. Council Member Bushong
stated at the last public hearing regarding the developer’s request to waive
this condition of the subdivision development, the developer had stated that
the state did not feel a turn lane was necessary. There being no further
discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2004-R-11 – Supporting a Voluntary Annexation of Property
Located on McMillan Drive, Owned by James and Helen Kudera
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2004-R-11 that would support
a voluntary request by Jim and Helen Kudera for annexation of a parcel of
property they own on McMillan Drive. He stated that the parcel is nine-tenths
of an acre and is adjacent to property owned by the Kudera’s, which is already
within the city limits. Mayor Moriconi introduced Jerry Dusing, legal counsel
for the Kudera’s who would present the request and answer any questions council
may have.
Mr. Dusing stated that his clients would be requesting a zone change along with
the annexation so that they can utilize the property for the development of an
independent living retirement village for residents over the age of fifty-five.
He stated the units would be purchased outright with a pro-rated buyout.
Council Member Bushong asked if an egress would be made possible onto the new
section of Route 17. Mr. Dusing replied yes and that it would be the main
public access to the development with an emergency access onto McMillan Drive.
Mayor Moriconi asked if they would be requesting a re-zoning of the property
along with the annexation. Mr. Dusing stated yes.
Council Member Dupps moved to adopt Resolution No. 2004-R-11, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Council Member Bushong asked if the state has approved
an egress onto the new section of Route 17. Mr. Dusing advised that they have
presented their plans to the state but have not received an official approval
as yet. He stated that they did not anticipate any problems with obtaining
approval for the egress. Mayor Moriconi read Resolution No. 2004-R-11. Roll was
called and answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2004-R-12 – Denying a Recommendation by KCPC to Support a Text
Amendment to the Zoning Ordinance Adding Automobile Laundry in the NSC Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2004-R-12 that would
disapprove a recommendation by the Kenton County Planning Commission to amend
the zoning text to add automobile laundry as a permitted use in the NSC zone
and disapprove an automobile laundry as conditional use in the NSC zone. He
stated that this resolution would reject the entire proposed text amendment.
Council Member Yeager stated she did not understand why the city would apply
for a text amendment, and then deny approval of the recommendation by the
Planning Commission. Council Member Franzen stated that it was explained at the
last meeting that the city was approached by a citizen who stopped in the city
office requesting this amendment and that the city followed procedure to be the
official applicant as is required. Mr. Deters reminded council that this
Resolution is being presented to them based on the discussion on this issue at
the last meeting. He reminded council that the general consensus was that the
city did not want to add automobile laundries in the NSC zones; neither as a
permitted or conditional use. He stated the proposed resolution formally
concludes the issue before them. Council Member Brinker stated that making
application on behalf the citizens reduces the time it would take if they had
to come make a formal request of the council before getting a recommendation
from the Planning Commission. Mr. Deters informed council that the Planning
Commission requires the city to be the sponsor and would not consider a
proposed text amendment unless the city is the applicant. Council Member Yeager
commented that she feels the location for which a text amendment is intended
should be an important factor before submitting the application.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi read Resolution No. 2004-R-
12. Council Member Franzen moved to approve Resolution No. 2004-R-12, seconded
by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion
carried 6-0.
Shadybrook Trails Subdivision – Approval of the Stage II Development Plan
Mayor Moriconi directed council to the correspondence inserted in their packets
from the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission regarding the Stage II
development plan for an approximate 65-acre area in the Shadybrook Trails
subdivision. The property is located approximately 600 feet south of Senour
Road between Cloverridge Drive and Fowler Creek Road. The development plan
includes 140 detached single-family residential lots with provisions for open
space and recreational areas. Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Chuck Berling to
answer any questions that council may have regarding the plan.
Mr. Berling advised council that the Stage II development plan adds
recreational amenities that will include two soccer fields, a restroom facility
and additional parking for the sports fields. He stated that the recreational
amenities for this development were established earlier this year after
collaborating with the city. He stated that the Planning Commission has
thoroughly reviewed the plan and has recommended approval. Mr. Berling advised
that the land has been graded, utilities lines will be installed this winter so
that construction of the houses will begin in the summer of 2005 and the park
areas ready by the spring of 2006.
Council Member Yeager moved to approve the Stage II Development Plan for the
Shadybrook Trails subdivision, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance amending Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 Establishing Sunday Liquor
Sales – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance 2003-O-08 that established the Sunday Liquor Sales. He ceded
the floor to Mrs. JoAnne Cobble, who asked to address council on this issue.
Mrs. Cobble provided some history on the adoption of the original ordinance
(Ordinance No. 2003-O-08). She stated that, as she understands it, the Sunday
liquor sale was prompted by a request by the Kenton County Golf Course. She
stated the golf course possesses a beer license and wanted to be allowed to
begin selling beer at 11:00 a.m. on Sunday’s to their patrons.
Council Member Brinker asked if the golf course was in the city limits. Chief
Butler advised that it is.
Mrs. Cobble went on to say that she discussed this with Mr. Jim Ellison, who
was on council when Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 was enacted and that he conveyed
that the intent of the ordinance was to allow alcoholic drinks (beer only) in a
sit down establishment only. She questioned the city attorney and council why
the language of the ordinance was written to include hard liquor. Council
Member Yeager commented that the 2003 ordinance was not intended specifically
for the golf course but was enacted city-wide. Mrs. Cobble questioned why it
included the sale of hard liquor when the golf course only sells beer. Mayor
Moriconi expressed concern that the city would not enact an ordinance that
would show favor to a particular establishment. Mrs. Cobble informed council
that when the original ordinance was enacted in 2003, and that it was in direct
conflict with state laws regarding the sales of hard liquor before 1:00 p.m. on
Sunday. She suggested more restrictive language that the proposed amended
ordinance contains.
Council Member Franzen advised Mrs. Cobble that Mr. Ellison voted in favor of
the ordinance that is currently in effect regarding Sunday liquor sales and
commented that she is not sure why he says the language is not what he
intended. Council Member Franzen informed Mrs. Cobble that she personally
opposed Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 and voted against its approval. Mrs. Cobble
stated that if this council adopts the proposed language amendment before them
that they would be permitting hard liquor to be sold at 11:00 a.m. on Sundays.
Council Member Dupps asked if there was a difference between beer and malt
beverages. Mr. Deters advised council there are two state statutes regulating
the sale of beer and distilled spirits and wine. He stated the laws regarding
distilled spirits and wine are more restrictive as they are considered more
‘evil’ than beer. Mrs. Cobble expressed intense concern that if council enacts
the ordinance before them with the proposed language, that they would dilute
the standards of this community.
Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Deters how the original ordinance would stand
if the proposed language amendment were not approved. Mr. Deters stated the
proposed language eliminates serving by the drink prior to 1:00 p.m. Mrs.
Cobble countered that the proposed language still permits the sale of packaged
hard liquor at 11:00 a.m. on Sunday. Council Member Yeager commented that it
also includes all other days, resulting in only a two-hour difference per week.
Mr. Deters stated that a city ordinance could not trump a state law. He stated
that Beechgrove Liquors contacted the city regarding Sunday sales. Mayor
Moriconi stated that since the state statute was amended, the City of Bellevue
has permitted Sunday liquor sales. Mrs. Cobble reiterated her concern that hard
liquor sales were permitted in the original ordinance. Mayor Moriconi stated
that the ordinance was drafted to be general for all businesses throughout the
city that hold liquor licenses and not just to accommodate the golf course.
Council Member Dupps asked Mr. Deters what text would be amended in the current
ordinance. Mr. Deters stated that the language “serve” would be eliminated.
Council Member Dupps asked if the state permits the city to establish the time
for sales and service of alcohol. Mr. Deters advised that the state draws a
distinction between the two types of alcohol. Mrs. Cobble commented that she
does not feel the parameters set forth would have been prohibitive to other
businesses in the city. She concluded by stating that she wanted council to be
certain that they are aware of exactly what they are voting for if this
ordinance is enacted. She stated that she knows of no other city that permits
hard liquor sales before 1:00 pm on Sunday and that she felt there was a moral
and family issue at stake and that the proposed ordinance would weaken the
community standards if passed.
Council Member Dupps countered that even if the city did not permit liquor
sales on Sunday until 1:00 pm., there are other religions that hold services on
other days besides Sunday mornings. Council Member Franzen stated she voted
against the ordinance in 2003. Council Member Behler stated that her position
as a substance abuse professional she does not favor earlier sales on Sunday.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that if the proposed ordinance is voted down,
than the original ordinance will remain. Mr. Deters stated this proposed
ordinance is meant to clarify the language of Ordinance 2003-O-08. Mayor
Moriconi read the proposed ordinance number 2004-O-23. Council Member Yeager
moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-23, seconded by Council Member Dupps. A
brief discussion continued. Council Member Dupps asked if this proposed
ordinance is not approved would Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 be upheld. Mr. Deters
replied yes, but that the interpretation of serving before 1:00 pm would be
incorrect. He stated the proposed ordinance would clarify that language by
eliminating the word “serve.” He reiterated that state law draws a distinction
between selling and serving by the drink. He stated if council does not adopt
this amendment, then the other option would be to repeal Ordinance No. 2003-O-
08. Council Member Brinker suggested the newly elected council members taking
office in January 2005 could propose changes to the ordinance. Roll call was
answered with two yes votes and four no votes cast by Council Members Franzen,
Behler, Brinker and Bushong.
Mr. Deters advised council that the current ordinance (Ordinance No. 2003-O-08)
is in conflict with state law. Council Member Bushong stated the Council taking
office in January would need to amend the current ordinance. Mr. Kent Kelso,
spoke from the floor to comment that if the current ordinance is in conflict
with state law then it is basically null and void. Mr. Deters agreed that that
section of the ordinance would be null and void.
Mrs. Cobble commented that the owner of Beechgrove Liquors called the city
office and spoke with the City Clerk, Ms. Taney, who is also the ABC
Administrator for the city regarding the sale of liquor at 11:00 a.m. She
stated that Ms. Taney told the storeowner he was permitted to sell. Ms. Taney
responded by advising council that she did speak to the storeowner, read the
ordinance to him over the phone, and then faxed Ordinance No. 2003-O-08 to him
and advised he have his personal attorney review the ordinance for legal
counsel regarding it’s content. Mrs. Cobble commented that the ordinance should
be clearer.
Proposed Ordinance Amending the 2004-05 Budget Ordinance – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would amend the
current fiscal year’s budget. He explained the main changes included the
following: adding the expense of $68,000 for the city’s share to fund the
TransCare ALS (Advanced Life Support) service to the citizens; insurance line
items - property, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance actuals
came in higher than estimated; eliminated the zoning contract line item and
added the recently hired zoning administrator’s wages to administrative
personnel salaries; adding $50,000 to Memorial Park land improvements line item
to install basketball courts in the Spring of 2005; eliminating the salary and
benefits of the Senior Center Director, since Nita Brake, the Recreation
Director assumed those duties when ’’Joan Bowling’ resigned from the position;
adding the $160,000 revenue the city will receive for the T-21 sidewalk grant
and the twenty percent the city will match; and, increasing the snow removal
expense to cover the maintenance of sixteen miles of county roads. Council
member Franzen commented that considering the city may have to assume the
additional maintenance of county roads that are within city boundaries, now may
not be the time to take on the expense of adding basketball courts to Memorial
Park. She suggested the city try to get a developer to donate this amenity to
the Park. Mayor Moriconi stated that could be a possibility. Council Member
Yeager stated she would attempt to get some private donations to fund the
basketball courts. Chief Butler advised that some of that $50,000 land
improvements is to cover some outstanding expenses that were carried over from
the 2003-04 budget when it was closed out. Council Member Behler asked how
much. Chief Butler stated between $10,000 - $12,000. He stated the remainder
would include parking lot lights, as well as the basketball courts. Council
Member Behler favored deleting the courts, and preferred installation of
lights. Chief Butler advised that last year’s bills would have to be paid
first, and of course lights would be a priority over courts. Council Member
Behler asked the cost of lights. Chief Butler stated he did not have an
estimate yet. Council Member Yeager stated that council was informed about the
plans to install basketball courts. Council Member Franzen asked if the council
would vote on the installation of the courts. Chief Butler advised that if the
bids were over $20,000 the council would vote on the award of the bid. Council
Member Dupps asked the planned location of the courts. Chief Butler explained
where they would be placed. Council Member Behler stated she would like the
explanation of that line item to include ‘pay outstanding bills and lighting’.
Council Member Yeager asked that the Park and Recreation Donations Revenue line
item reflect the actual of $4,000, which is an increase of $1,000 over the
estimated amount.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance
amending the 2004/05 budget. Mayor Moriconi advised that it would be presented
for a second reading at the December 6, 2004 meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to adjourn.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with second from Council Member Bushong.
Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 8:00 pm.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky
November 15, 2004
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
15, 2004 at 7:00 pm at the Senior Citizens and Community Center with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Members Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric
Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager answered roll call. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters. Mayor Moriconi advised council that Council Member
Behler was absent due to illness.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi announced that the citizens signed in to address council are
reserving their privilege to speak regarding specific agenda items at the time
the issue is presented.
NEW BUSINESS
Voluntary Annexation Request by Freedom Park, LLC
Mayor Moriconi advised that the developers of the Freedom Park subdivision are
requesting the city annex an unincorporated portion of land to the east of the
existing platted subdivision. He stated the area proposed for annexation is a
little over 8.5 acres and will take the subdivision out to State KY 17 at the
point of relocation. Mayor Moriconi introduced the developer, Tom Schreiber and
his legal counsel, Mike Duncan.
Mr. Duncan explained that the property is located along the south end of
Freedom Trail Drive that currently is a dead-end. He stated that the property
is currently outside city limits, is zoned R-1C and they will develop the
property as is currently zoned. He stated that annexation would ensure all
property owners in the subdivision have city services and suggested it would be
difficult for the city to monitor which properties are within city limits and
which are not if part of the subdivision is outside city limits. Mr. Duncan
stated that since the property will abut KY 17 when it is relocated, this would
provide another egress for the subdivision.
Council Member Yeager asked the location of the exit point onto KY 17. Mr.
Duncan advised that the street would feed out to KY 17 directly across from
Maple Tree Lane. Council Member Brinker asked the time frame for the
development, specifically when the egress onto KY 17 would be constructed. Mr.
Schreiber stated that the state highway department has granted them permission
to construct a temporary drive to access KY 17 until the relocated section is
constructed, so that the new property owners could utilize this egress. He
stated that the highway department has indicated that the construction of that
section of KY 17 would be let out for bids the first of the year (2005).
Council Member Franzen asked if they would be developing the land even if the
city does not grant their request for annexation. Mr. Schreiber replied yes;
that they have already begun development. Council Member Yeager stated she
would like the city to have a copy of the permit issued by the state granting
Freedom Park LLC access onto KY 17. Mr. Schreiber advised they did not have the
permission in written form yet, but stated he would request this from the
state. Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Schreiber if he would be able to obtain
a written permit before a first reading of the annexation ordinance at the next
meeting on December 6, 2004. Council Member Dupps expressed concern with having
a first reading of this annexation ordinance with the current council and then
the second reading with the new council in January. Mr. Deters advised that it
was an acceptable procedure. Council Member Franzen suggested the first reading
could be delayed until January 2005.
Mayor Moriconi advised this issue would be presented at either the December 6th
or January 3rd council meeting for a first reading.
Discussion Regarding a Proposed Map Amendment – Flanagan Property 26 Acres on
Madison Pike - KCPC Application No. 1698R
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a recommendation from the Kenton County
Planning Commission approving a map amendment for a 26-acre parcel on the east
side of Madison Pike owned by Nancy and Everett Flanagan. He stated the
proposed map amendment would rezone the property from R-1C to R-2 (PUD). Mayor
Moriconi introduced Jim Bertram from One Eleven Developers, LLC and his legal
counsel, Tim Theissen.
Mr. Bertram distributed a detailed development plan to Mayor Moriconi and
council. Mr. Theissen made an in-depth presentation of the proposed development
plan for the 26-acre parcel. He advised council that the proposed map amendment
went before the Planning Commission on November 4, 2004 and received a
unanimous favorable recommendation for approval subject to four conditions. Mr.
Theissen advised that the parcel of property for the proposed development would
run between old KY 17 and the new section of KY 17. The development plan
identifies a through street that would connect both the old and new sections of
KY 17. He stated that due to elevation drops, the connector road should
discourage traffic speeding violators. Mr. Theissen stated that the PUD plan
would be part residential and part commercial with condominiums on the north
side and six commercial outlots on the south side. He stated the commercial
lots would be small retail, restaurants, gas station and a bank. He stated the
development would be a walkable community with sidewalks throughout. Mr.
Theissen stated that the developers have been working on the plan for a year
and are now marketing the concept with intended users lined up. He advised that
a PUD requires twenty percent open space, which is included, providing walking
trails along the creek area, and two retention ponds for storm water drainage.
He stated that a gravity sewer system would hook into the Hartland Subdivision.
He advised that the proposed plan provides a nice tree buffer along the Walnut
Hall properties. Mr. Theissen also indicated that the plan would provide a
driveway to connect future development of the adjoining parcel at the corner of
Madison Pike and Harris Road, as well as providing access for the Jarboe
property next door. Mr. Theissen advised council that this proposed development
is consistent with the recommended Land Use map of the 2001 area-wide
Comprehensive Plan.
Mr. Theissen commented that he is aware that Mr. Charlie Deters is concerned
about the undeveloped lots he has available at the Towne Center. He stated he
doesn’t know why the lots are still vacant along ’’’’Shaw Road’’ (St. Rt. 536),
unless it is because it is a 2-lane road.
Mr. Theissen advised council of the four conditions that the Planning
Commission imposed upon approval of the development plan and to which they have
no objections. He stated the four conditions are: 1) a traffic study be
prepared to assess the north-south and east-west movement of traffic as well as
needs for possible intersection improvements in the area, crosswalks and
traffic control devices; 2) landscape screening along the existing KY 17 and
the proposed new section of KY 17 as well as areas adjacent to residential
zones; 3) only one pole sign will be permitted and located at the east end of
the development; and 4) a provision be made for a future connection to the
property to the south by way of an access drive between the proposed two-level
commercial building and the building to the east. He stated that they are
certain the traffic study will reveal that they will need to add turn lanes on
KY 17, but expressed concern that they would install the turn lanes only to see
them torn out in the future when Charlie Deters complies with the Towne Center
development conditions. Mr. Theissen requested specific text be included in the
ordinance the city would adopt approving this map amendment that would not
require compliance of improvements to Madison Pike until the time of and in
coordination with other improvements by the developer (Charlie Deters) of the
Independence Towne Center. He also requested specific text included in the
ordinance that would stated that no screening would be required to roadways,
internal to development, nor to future commercial sites to the south.
Council Member Yeager asked if Mr. Theissen had an overlay for the commercial
development that council could view. Mr. Theissen stated he did not prepare an
overlay for viewing, but the commercial uses are limited to, and are identified
as banks, professional offices, service stations and restaurants. Council
Member Brinker asked the time frame for the construction/opening of the new
section of KY 17. Mr. Bertram responded that they have been informed by the
state that construction would be put out to bid in January 2005, but since a
state budget has not yet been adopted, the state is hesitant to provide an
exact time frame. He stated that the state has acquired property and the design
plans are complete. Council Member Brinker asked the developer’s time frame.
Mr. Bertram advised they would like to commence development of the land in 2005
before moving forward. Mr. Theissen stated the development would not move
forward without the new section of KY 17 underway.
Mayor Moriconi asked about the sanitation tie in for this development. Mr.
Bertram stated that they would install a gravity line by acquiring easements
from the adjacent property owners, which will allow them to provide sewer
service to the residents on Walnut Hall Drive. Mayor Moriconi asked if these
users would be tied into the Fowler Creek system. Mr. Bertram stated he was not
sure. Council Member Franzen asked if the proposed sewer lines would be able to
service the properties along Madison Pike across from the new city building.
Mr. Bertram replied yes, as well as the properties on Peach Drive.
Mayor Moriconi commented that this development being proposed by One Eleven
Developers LLC is the most major development in the city since the Independence
Towne Center. Council Member Brinker expressed reservations about proceeding
with a commitment on this zone change request since the second reading of an
ordinance would not be held until January 2005, when a new group of council
members will take office. Mayor Moriconi stated that a first reading that would
be held on December 6, 2004 would not require a vote by this council, but
acknowledged Council Member Brinker’s concern and suggested that the first
reading of the ordinance could be delayed until January 3, 2005. Mr. Jed Deters
advised that the city council had ninety days to act on the KCPC’s
recommendation on this map amendment. Mr. Bertram stated that since the KCPC
recommendation was made at its November 4, 2004 meeting, the city has until
February 4, 2005 to take action.
Council Member Bushong questioned whether or not this proposed development
would be tied into the Fowler Creek Debt Reduction assessment. Mr. Bertram
stated that the system would tie into the trunk line of the pump station on
Fowler Creek Road, but did not know if the assessment would apply to this
development. Council Member Yeager commented that perhaps the Sanitation
District should attend a city council meeting to explain if this development
will be tapping into the Fowler Creek lines. Mr. Jed Deters advised that the
development would be subject to the assessment if they use the system.
Mayor Moriconi advised that the sewer tap in information should be obtained
from the Sanitation District prior to the January 3, 2005 council meeting when
they will schedule a first reading of an ordinance to approve this map
amendment. Council Member Yeager stated she did not see a need to delay the
first reading until January and suggested having the proposed ordinance
prepared in time for a first reading at the December 6, 2004 meeting.
Council Member Brinker asked Mr. Bertram if he had commercial tenants
contracted yet. Mr. Bertram advised that while he does not have formal
contracts signed yet, he has had more interest than he has available lots. He
suggested that this development could help bring more business into the area
thereby helping the Independence Towne Center also.
Citizen Comments Regarding the Map Amendment Request for the Flanagan Property
Jerry Zimmerer, 2340 Harris Pike, Independence – Mr. Zimmerer stated he opposed
the planned development for the Flanagan property. He stated as his concerns
were with increased traffic congestion in the vicinity of the Harris Pike/Shaw
Road/Madison Pike intersection. He pointed out there are several vacant
commercial buildings/property already in the local area, including Nicholson,
which could be utilized. Mr. Zimmerer also suggested that the proposed
development’s connector road would be a headache for the residents due to
speeders.
Charlie Deters, developer of the Independence Towne Center – Mr. Deters stated
that he was reluctant to speak against the proposed development across from the
Towne Center, but felt it necessary to re-examine the planning principles with
regard to zoning which the Planning Commission adopted in the 1998
Comprehensive Plan. He read an excerpt from the Plan that outlined the
philosophy. Mr. Deters stated that the proposed map amendment is contrary to
the Planning Commission’s own philosophy regarding zoning.
Mr. Deters advised council that when he devised a development plan for the
Towne Center, he tried to build a comprehensive site and of the original fifty
acres, twenty acres are still undeveloped. He also stated that twenty-six acres
was donated to the city for the development of recreational facilities. Mr.
Deters went on to say that the area currently has adequate food service and
that most are having financial difficulties. He advised that the Courthouse
Restaurant has never made a profit.
Mr. Deters advised council that the reason for zoning is to create an orderly
progression in the city. He stated that he feels they have tried to do that in
the Towne Center. He stated the Towne Center has wide streets and the best and
only retention system in the area, which was very expensive to construct. He
stated that the proposed development plan submitted by One Eleven LLC has a
thoroughfare that is too narrow and in his opinion is the weakest part of the
plan.
Mr. Deters stated that when the city recently sold the municipal park and ride
lot to make way for commercial development he was asked to allow the TANK
busses to use a section of the parking lot at the Towne Center for a park and
ride for the bus patrons. He stated that at first he was hesitant to do this,
but having the city’s best interest at heart, and in the spirit of cooperation
he consented to the request. Mr. Deters commented that he believe the
construction of the new Wal-Mart on KY 17 in Fort Wright will hurt commercial
development in Independence for some time. He stated that he feels the proposed
development on the Flanagan property is an attempt to piggyback off the Kroger
anchor store at the Towne Center, which generates the majority of the traffic
in the area. In closing, Mr. Deters commented that there is no demand in
Independence for the proposed residential section of the development.
Mr. Bertram commented that he was the buyer of the city’s municipal park and
ride lot. He stated construction on the lot will begin in 2005 of a 3500 square
foot building and that he already has 2500 square feet of it leased. He stated
he would also begin the process of applying for a zone change on the property
adjacent to his office building at 5294 Madison so that he can continue the
commercial development of that area. He stated that as a business owner
operating in Independence he has an interest in this community and he is trying
to grow this area by marketing a theme. He stated he wants to succeed and grow
his business and be a part of the planned growth in the city.
Council Member Yeager asked which part of the development he would begin with –
residential or commercial. Mr. Bertram replied that he planned to develop both
residential and commercial simultaneously. He stated the condos would be sold,
not leased.
Council Member Brinker commented that council has to look at each development
objectively and not favor one or the other. Mr. Charlie Deters asked how he
would answer the planning principles he quoted directly from the Planning
Commission. Council Member Brinker stated that it appears there has been a
change in their philosophy in recent years. Mr. Theissen commented that he held
the position of Chairman on the Planning Commission when the 1996 Comprehensive
Plan was drafted. He stated that the Plan was adopted prior to the re-routing
of KY 17. He went on to say that he agrees with the planning philosophy that
Mr. Deters quoted, but that the current section of KY 17 wil become a collector
road with the new KY 17 improvements are made. Mr. Theissen stated that the
development plan for the Flanagan property is designed exactly as is outlined
in the updated 2001 Comprehensive Plan.
Mayor Moriconi suggested that council may need some time to digest the proposed
development plan and could have more questions prior to the first reading of
the ordinance, which might be delayed until January 2005. Council Member
Franzen asked Mr. Bertram if this proposed development was contingent on the
construction of the new section of KY 17. Mr. Bertram stated that the back
section of the development would not be constructed until the new section of KY
17 is completed and he is confident that the state will make the road
improvements in two or three years. He stated that the entire development would
be constructed in phases over several years. Council Member Franzen commented
that she thought it would be a good idea to make the connector road three
lanes. Mr. Bertram stated that the connector road is designed to be twenty-
eight feet wide, but a traffic study may determine a third lane may be merited.
He went on to say that they are attempting to make it a well balanced
development and will take it into consideration. Mr. Zimmerer asked about
parking for the condos. Mr. Theissen stated that each condo will have a two-car
garage plus two additional parking spaces which is a requirement of
Independence codes. Mrs. Cobble asked if anyone knew the width of Cody Road.
Mr. Bertram advised that Cody Road is about 21-22 feet wide and that many of
the old county roads vary in width from 17-22 feet.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi advised this issue would be
revisited either in December or January.
Discussion Regarding a Proposed Text Amendment – Request by Fifth Third Bank -
KCPC Application No. 1702R
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed text amendment, prompted by
Fifth Third Bank, that would amend the current zoning ordinance to add “banks
and other financial institutions” to the list of conditional uses within the R-
1D zone. He stated that Fifth Third Bank had simultaneously applied for a map
amendment for property owned by Thelma Stein, located at 4118 Richardson Road,
containing approximately 1.5 acres at the southeast corner of the intersection
of Independence Station Road. Mayor Moriconi advised that Fifth Third Bank has
since withdrawn their request for the map amendment and is looking for approval
of the text amendment.
Tim Garry, legal counsel for Thelma and Lawrence Stein advised that his clients
would like to sell the property to Fifth Third Bank and concurred that the
request for the map amendment has been withdrawn in hopes that the city will
approve a text amendment that would permit banks in the current zone. He stated
this property has been in the Stein family for fifty years and the Stein’s are
relying on the sale of this property for their retirement. He said that many
family members live in the vicinity of this parcel. Mr. Garry advised council
that the KCPC has recommended approval of the proposed text amendment.
Council Member Yeager commented that she had requested that the text “and
professional office buildings” be included in this proposed zoning amendment.
Mayor Moriconi advised the city could add that before the first reading.
Council Member Franzen commented that there are presently only two locations
within the city that this proposed text amendment would affect – the
intersection of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road, as well as Richardson Road and
Independence Station Road. Council Member Yeager stated that the text amendment
would still require the applicant to go before the city’s Board of Adjustment
to get approval for the conditional use. Mr. Deters concurred with Council
Member Yeager.
Mrs. Cobble commented that the text “and professional office buildings” was not
considered by the KCPC and expressed concern regarding the city adding this
text without the Planning Commission’s recommendation to do so. Council Member
Yeager commented that the city had agreed to this by resolution. Mrs. Cobble
expressed displeasure with the city going outside of the text that was
considered by the KCPC and felt the city should not add extra text without
making re-application. Mr. Deters advised that the city makes the final
decision and even though the application submitted for the KCPC’s
recommendation did not have all the proposed text the city wanted to include,
it contained sufficient text for consideration and he is comfortable with the
additional text if this is what council desires. Council Member Franzen
commented that even if the city has included “and professional office
buildings” in the text amendment application and it was recommended for
disapproval by the KCPC, the city would have the authority to override that
recommendation. Mrs. Cobble stated that she feels the residential zones should
be protected and that the property owners should not have to defend their
properties. She reiterated that she didn’t feel the city should be permitted to
make a text amendment without getting comment and recommendation by the KCPC.
Council Member Bushong asked why Fifth Third Bank withdrew their application
for a map amendment. Mr. Garry advised that they felt they do not need the map
amendment and that their use can be satisfied with a text amendment. Mr. Deters
commented that the city recommended that Fifth Third apply for both the text
amendment and the map amendment simultaneously so that KCPC could consider them
side by side.
Council Member Franzen commented that she feels a traffic light will be needed
at that busy intersection and suggested the bank lobby the state officials to
provide a signal. David Curle, architect for Fifth Third Bank, commented that
they spoke with the Transportation Cabinet who advised road improvements will
begin the spring of 2005. He said that the state will not provide an exact
starting date for the road project. Mr. Curle commented that when recommending
the text amendment language, it was for specific limited use on an arterial and
collector street. He stated that within a five mile radius of the project site,
there are other like business services within that circle of use.
Mayor Moriconi stated this proposed text amendment ordinance would be discussed
further at the December 6, 2004 meeting. Mr. Deters advised council there is no
time limitation for the city to adopt a text amendment like there is for a map
amendment, so they will have all the time they need to consider this issue. Mr.
Curle commented that Fifth Third Bank was intent on the city having a first
reading of a proposed ordinance to adopt this text amendment at the December 6,
2004 council meeting. He stated they would like to have final approval on the
ordinance before the end of the year and hoped this would be workable for the
city to accomplish. Council Member Brinker commented that he would be agreeable
to resolving this issue before the end of the year. Council Member Dupps
commented that the December 6, 2004 meeting will determine if this can be
resolved by year end. Mayor Moriconi stated that the city will decide at the
December 6th meeting if it will be necessary to schedule another meeting to
finish some of the outstanding issues begun by this council before the end of
their term.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler advised he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Bushong who he would select to receive the December
Business of the Month award. Council Member Bushong advised he selected
Deaton’s Nursery and Greenhouse.
Mayor Moriconi announced that the Christmas Walk & Tour would be held on
Friday, December 10, 2004 from 7-9 pm. He encouraged everyone to attend.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that he is having some of the sidewalks
repaired/replaced in the downtown area in preparation for the Christmas Walk
this year. He stated the sidewalks have been in a deteriorating condition for
many years and have become a safety issue.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and the
meeting ended at 8:35 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor Moriconi
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 6, 2004
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
December 6 2004 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with
Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Charles Steger of Hickory rove
Baptist Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Eric
Dupps, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters. Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone in attendance and stated this was a
historical meeting as it is the first official meeting of the City Council
being held in the new Municipal Center
Presentation to the Police Department by the Kentucky Crime Prevention
Coalition
2.   Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Bob Douglas, Director of the Kentucky Crime
Prevention Coalition. Mr. Douglas stated that each year the Coalition
recognizes an agency they feel is worthy of the outstanding local crime
prevention project. He stated that this year the Coalition was presenting the
Independence Police Department with this recognition due to the active Citizens
Police Academy alumni members and the committed level of volunteer involvement.
Chief Butler thanked Mr. Douglas for his support and he also thanked all the
CPA Alumni volunteer for their many hours of service.
Business of the Month Recognition
3.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Bushong had selected Deaton’s
Nursery and Greenhouse as the recipient of the Business of the Month and
presented a plaque to Mr. Darrell Deaton. Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Deaton for
operating his business in the city.
Approval of the Minutes of the October 4, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the October
4, 2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Behler so moved, with a second
from Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted and roll call was
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the October 18, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
5.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the October
18, 2004 caucus meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the November 8, 2004 Special Council Meeting
6.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the November
8, 2004 special meeting. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by Council
Member Brinker. No amendments were noted and roll call was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the Minutes of the November 15, 2004 Caucus Council Meeting
7.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the November
15, 2004 caucus meeting. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Dupps. Amendments by Council Members Franzen and Yeager were
noted with no objections. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion
carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance Approving a Map Amendment for 26-Acres owned by Nancy and
Everett Flanagan Located along the Eastside of Madison Pike – KCPC Application
No. 1698R – 1st Reading
8.   Mayor Moriconi stated that he would extend privileges of the floor to
those who signed in to speak on this proposed map amendment. He yielded the
floor to Mr. Charles Deters, developer of the Independence Towne Center.
9.   Mr. Deters spoke in opposition to the proposed re-zoning of the Flanagan
property. He stated that in 1998 Mr. Gene Daniels filed a zone change
application for the five acres at the corner of Harris Pike and Madison Pike,
where the Deaton’s Nursery is currently located. He stated that the Kenton
County Planning Commission (KCPC) recommended against the zone change citing
many reasons, one of which was they felt there was sufficient commercial
property at the Towne Center and in the Nicholson area to sufficiently handle a
future population of 20,000 to 75,000 people. Mr. Deters stated that the KCPC
felt there should only be commercial development along one side of the highway,
with no commercial development beyond the Shaw Road/Harris Pike/Madison Pike
intersection that would be near the Simon Kenton High School’’ as it was
consider that commercial development near an educational facility was not
conducive to the educational system. He stated those were considered to be the
essential differences in denying Mr. Daniels a zone change in 1998. Mr. Deters
stated that Mr. Tim Theissen, who is currently representing the developer for
the Flanagan’s property, was the chairman of the KCPC in 1998 and is the person
that communicated that recommendation to the city at the time.
10.   Mr. Deters went on to say that the Towne Center property had been for
sale for a long time when he expressed an interest in purchasing it. He stated
that he went before the Planning Commission to get a recommendation for a zone
change. He stated that the Planning Commission suggested the large parcel be
zoned for multiple uses that would include fifty acres of multi residential
units, along with commercial lots. He stated they also questioned and suggested
future need for municipal space for a firehouse and city building and open
green space. Mr. Deters stated he agreed with the Planning Commission’s
recommendation for the rezoning of the property and the development plan was
approved unanimously by the KCPC.
11.   Mr. Deters pointed out that the Independence Towne Center is only
partially developed and with adequate commercial space available, and utilities
already installed and a large retention basin in place, questioned the need for
more. He stated the Towne Center has a four-lane wide connector road from
Madison Pike to Shaw Road and the traffic move nicely because of the width of
the road. He stated it was expensive to construct, but it made the development
much nicer. Mr. Deters stated that he feels the city is not following through
with it’s commitment to the Towne Center. He stated that from the outset it was
considered to be an extended, long-range development plan, which is not yet
complete. He stated that the Planning Commission has now altered their criteria
regarding commercial development on one side of a highway.
12.   In closing, Mr. Deters distributed to council a proposed ordinance that
he drafted that would deny the zone change recommendation by the KCPC and urged
council to consider this option due to the adequate commercial land currently
available on the west side of Madison directly across from the proposed re-
zoning site.
13.   Council Member Brinker commented that Mr. Deters deserves a lot of credit
for the development of the Independence Towne Center, and while he often
frequents Mr. Deters restaurant and other retail shops, he feels it is not his
position to protect the interests of one developer. Council Member Brinker went
on to say that he feels the relocation of the new St. Rt. 17 has changed the
position of the Planning Commission with regard to commercial development along
Madison Pike. He stated that as he sees it, the city has two options in
building up the tax base; either rely on the residents by increasing their
property taxes or build up the commercial tax base. He stated he feels the city
needs to do whatever it can with regard to commercial economic development and
he sees this as the right approach to holding down property taxes.
14.   Council Member Yeager stated she wanted a guarantee that the developer
would have twenty-five percent of the residential development started before
beginning the development of the six commercial lots. Council Member Franzen
voiced disapproval of Council Member Yeager’s suggestion, stating that she
feels it would be a mistake that may cost the loss of the commercial tenants
the developer has secured. Council Member Yeager asked if the developer has
secured residential sales also. Mr. Jim Bertram of One Eleven Developers
advised that the secured developers of the commercial lots may withdraw their
commitment if they will be delayed from beginning their project for two or
three years. He stated he fears the residential developers may also pull out if
limitations are set that will delay the commencement of either section of the
development.
15.   Mayor Moriconi asked what percentage would be residential and commercial.
Mr. Bertram advised there would be eighteen acres of residential units and
eight acres of commercial parcels. He stated the commercial lots would be at
the south end of the development. Council Member Behler asked if the
development would be constructed in phases. Mr. Bertram advised it would, over
the span of several years. He stated they would begin by constructing the
connector road between Madison Pike and the new re-routed KY 17, and then they
would begin construction of the residential units and three commercial lots
simultaneously.
16.   Council Member Yeager asked what percent would be residential. Mr.
Bertram advised about thirty percent of the development would be residential.
Council Member Yeager stated she would like some assurance that the residential
units would be constructed before the commercial lots are developed. Mr.
Bertram advised that this development plan is a ‘package deal’ that he has been
working on for the past year. He stated he is unable to get firm commitments
from builders until the city approves of the proposed rezone and development
plan. He stated he does not want to be committed to complying with twenty-five
percent of the residential development before he can begin the commercial
development. He stated it may take two or three years for a prime corner
commercial lot to be developed. He reiterated that development of both the
residential and commercial sections needed to be constructed simultaneously.
17.   Mayor Moriconi asked the council how they wanted to proceed. He reminded
them that this was just a first reading of the proposed ordinance and would not
require a vote. He asked council if they wanted to have a first reading of the
proposed ordinance that would approve the recommendation by the KCPC to permit
the zone change or if they wanted to have a first reading of the ordinance that
was drafted and presented by Mr. Charles Deters that would deny the zone
change. City Attorney, Jed Deters advised council that they would need to take
action either to approve the zone change or deny it. Council Member Brinker
stated that he did not feel comfortable approving an ordinance that has not
been drafted by the city attorney. Mr. Jed Deters stated he has read through
the proposed ordinance that Charlie Deters presented and the language is
appropriate. Council Member Yeager suggested not voting on either proposed
ordinances. There was a brief discussion regarding the ordinances presented.
Council Member Dupps asked City Attorney, Jed Deters why the proposed ordinance
to approve the zone change has blank spaces. Mr. Jed Deters responded that
there were concerns expressed at the caucus meeting and he thought there was a
possibility that council may want to add additional language so he provided
some blank spaces in case more conditions on the zone change were added.
18.   Mayor Moriconi commented that since there did not seem to be an interest
in reading the proposed ordinance submitted by Mr. Charles Deters to deny the
zone change, that he will proceed with the first reading of the proposed
ordinance to accept the recommendation from the KCPC to approve the zone change
for the Flanagan’s twenty-six acres. Mayor Moriconi read the proposed
ordinance. There was no vote on this first reading. Mayor Moriconi advised the
proposed ordinance would be presented for a second reading at the next meeting.
Proposed Ordinance Approving a Text Amendment to Add “Banks and Other Financial
Institutions” to the list of Conditional Uses within the R-1D Zone – KCPC
Application No. 1702R – 1st Reading
19.   Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to JoAnne Cobble who wished to ask a few
questions on this issue before council.
20.   Mrs. JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, asked Mr. Jed Deters why the
proposed ordinance that he drafted for council’s approval did not include the
entire language recommended by the Planning Commission. She requested that “and
a collector street, and are located within a Community Service Area as defined
in the adopted comprehensive plan” be included in the ordinance text. She
stated that the incomplete language of the proposed ordinance does not meet the
parameters outlined and in effect will not meet Fifth Third Bank’s needs. She
stated that Mr. Deters missed two very important factors of the text amendment.
Council Member Franzen stated adding the language is easily remedied. Council
Member Brinker moved that the ordinance include the additional language as
pointed out by Mrs. Cobble.
21.   Regarding the previous issue before council, the rezoning of the Flanagan
property, Mrs. Cobble asked that the newly elected council members be permitted
to ask questions regarding this issue prior to the second reading of the
ordinance at the next meeting. Mayor Moriconi advised there would be ample time
for discussion before the second reading.
Cancellation of the December 20, 2004 Caucus Meeting
22.   Council Member Bushong suggested that since four current members of the
Council would be ending their term of office this month, that it might be
appropriate to cancel the December 20th caucus meeting and have a special
meeting in it’s place so that pending business could be accomplished. Mayor
Moriconi agreed and stated it was reasonable to allow the outgoing council
members finish business that had come before them during their term. Council
Member Franzen moved to cancel the December 20, 2004 caucus meeting and
scheduled a special meeting on the same date, seconded by Council Member
Behler. No roll was called. The motion carried with all ayes.
23.   Resuming the discussion regarding the proposed text amendment, Mayor
Moriconi directed the city attorney to give a first reading of the proposed
ordinance including the noted additional language as discussed. Mr. Jed Deters
read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised the second reading would be
placed on the agenda for the special meeting that would be scheduled on
December 20, 2004 in place of the cancelled caucus meeting.
Proposed Ordinance Annexing 8.6+ Acres of Freedom Trail LLC Property – 1st
Reading
24.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that
would approve the voluntary annexation of 8.6+ acres of property at Freedom
Trail and Madison Pike, which is contiguous to the city limits and adjacent to
the Freedom Park subdivision. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance it’s first reading.
Council Member Yeager asked if the city had received correspondence from the
State Transportation Cabinet advising the city they would permit egress onto
Madison Pike. Mayor Moriconi advised the city is in receipt of the state’s
correspondence wherein they say a permit will be issued once all necessary
reviews and requirements are fulfilled regarding the application and that
access to the existing KY 17 will be granted through the proposed KY 17
improvement project.
25.   Mayor Moriconi advised that the second reading of this ordinance would
also be placed on the agenda for the special meeting scheduled for December 20,
2004.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-24 – Amending the 2004/05 Budget Ordinance No 2004-O-11 –
2nd Reading
26.   Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2004-O-24
that would approve the amendments to the 2004/05 fiscal year budget Ordinance
2004-O-11. City Attorney, Mr. Jed Deters read Ordinance No. 2004-O-24.
27.   Council Member Dupps moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2004-O-24 as read,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Council Member Yeager advised she has
received a $5,000 donation check from a friend for the Memorial Park
Amphitheater that she would like it added to the revenue line item. Chief
Butler suggested that could be amended at the end of the fiscal year. Mayor
Moriconi thanked Council Member Yeager for getting that donation. There being
no further discussion on the proposed amended budget ordinance, roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
28.   Chief Butler advised he did not have anything to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
29.   Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report.
Update on Post Office cluster mailbox issue in the Clover Ridge/Sycamore Creek
subdivision
30.   Council Member Brinker asked for an update on the Clover Ridge/Sycamore
Creek Subdivisions cluster mailbox issue with the Post Office. Mr. Deters
advised he has received correspondence from the U.S. Post Office’s legal
counsel. Council Member Brinker stated the legal counsel has cited cases. Mr.
Deters advised they have insinuated things they feel support their position,
but he feels they have no legitimate grounds to support their position. He
advised council that he has responded to the correspondence from the Post
Office’s legal counselor, but he has not received a reply yet. Council Member
Brinker asked how the residents were receiving their mail. Mr. Deters assumes
the cluster mailboxes are still being used until the issue is resolved. Council
Member Franzen commented that she was under the impression that the
Independence post office had no preference regarding the type of mail
receptacles used in the city. Chief Butler stated he would check into the mail
delivery receptacles being used in the Clover Ridge/Sycamore Creek subdivision.
Council Member Bushong asked Mr. Deters if the U.S. Post Office had the
authority to trump a city ordinance. Mr. Deters stated that he feels the U.S.
Post Office statement and position on this issue is very broad. Council Member
Brinker stated that he feels since the developer of the subdivision violated
the city ordinance that they are the one that should be held responsible. Chief
Butler suggested they could be cited to court. Council Member Franzen stated
she feels this issue is between the city and the U.S. Post Office. Mr. Deters
advised he would try to get this resolved, but since his reply letter was sent
on November 22, 2004 it is too early to have expected a response from the Post
Office. Mayor Moriconi commented that the important thing is that the residents
continue to receive their mail while the city is awaiting a response from the
Post Office legal counselor.
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky – Cable Access to the Senior
Center
31.   Council Member Franzen referred to a copy of a letter received from the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky regarding running cable lines to
the Senior Center for broadcast purposes. She wondered why this was necessary
since all future meetings would be held and broadcast from the new Municipal
Center Council Chambers. Mayor Moriconi stated that she was correct, that all
future council meetings would be held in the new Council Chambers, but advised
installing cable lines to the Senior Center would provide the opportunity to
broadcast events, such as concerts at the Memorial Park Amphitheater as well as
July 4th Celebration events. Chief Butler also added that it would provide
future options of live coverage of other public meetings held at the Senior
Center.
Discussion Regarding Maintenance of Green Space in Future Developments
32.   Council Member Brinker commented that the maintenance of green space in
new developments should be addressed when a developer is applying for a zone
change. He stated that he would like to see the city look at developers’s track
record with regard to previous developments in the city before granting them a
zone change. He stated that he feels this will help in the prevention of the
maintenance of green space problems in the future. Mr. Deters advised this
should fall under the building permit ordinance wherein a condition could be
imposed that building permits could be denied if there are outstanding zoning
violations in the development. He stated that currently this is not a condition
of building permits. Council Member Yeager suggested that penalties should also
be included if they don’t maintain their green space. Mr. Deters advised he
would work on drafting an amendment to the current building permit ordinance
for council’s consideration.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Announcements
33.   Mayor Moriconi announced that the State Highway Department would be
holding a public meeting this Thursday, December 9th from 5-7 pm at the Kenton
County Extension Office on Marshall Road regarding the reconstruction of KY
536. He encouraged everyone to attend to voice their views on this road
project.
34.   Mayor Moriconi announced that the annual Christmas Walk & Tour would be
held this Friday, December 10th from 7-9 pm. He stated the city would light the
official Christmas tree on the Kenton County Courthouse front lawn at 7:00 pm
kicking off the evening’s festivities.
Report on the proposed Cox Road turn lane at the Intersection of KY 16
35.   Mayor Moriconi reported that he attended a meeting with the State Highway
Department, along with the City Engineer and Zoning Administrator. He stated
they discussed a right and left turn lane, heading east at the intersection of
Cox Road and KY 16. He stated that at first the Highway Department
representatives suggested they would make the road improvements if the city
would assume future maintenance of Cox Road, but he did not feel this was a
feasible option for the city. He said that the Highway Department advised they
would be willing to work with the city on the road improvements and check into
the possibility of obtaining some state funding for the project. He stated it
might be difficult to obtain state dollars since the state officials have yet
to adopt a budget. He stated that large utility poles would need to be
relocated making the project costly. Mayor Moriconi stated that this would be a
separate issue from the turn lane that Mr. Berling has been instructed to build
at the intersection to the Pembroke Subdivision off Cox Road. Council Member
Dupps asked if the state highway representatives supported the city’s assertion
that a turn lane is needed. Mayor Moriconi replied they somewhat agreed, but
was against the installation of a traffic light at that intersection as they do
not feel the current traffic flow warrants one. Council Member Behler commented
that she feels that is part of the problem now with regard to visibility at
that corner. Council Member Franzen stated she has heard concerns from
residents in that area they the state may take part of their property for the
road improvements. Mayor Moriconi advised there was no mention of eminent
domain for this project. He stated he would keep council advised of any
progress on this possible future road project.
Closing Remarks from Outgoing Council Members & Adjournment
36.   Council Member Bushong stated since this was the last live meeting of his
term that he wanted to let everyone know that he appreciated the citizens
support that allowed him to serve on council for the last four years. He
stated, that for the record, he wanted to apologize for allowing candidates for
council in this past general election to use the city council meetings as a
public forum to verbally attack members of the city council. He stated that
even if someone doesn’t respect the person sitting in the council seat, then
they should at least respect the position. In closing, he moved to adjourn the
meeting. Council Member Brinker also thanked council for the opportunity to
fill the unexpired term of Council Member Ellison when he resigned. He stated
that he has tried to respect everyone’s opinion.
37.   Council Member Brinker seconded Council Member Bushong’s motion to
adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 8:07 pm.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Kentucky
December 20, 2004
Special Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
of the Council on Monday, December 20, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the Municipal
Center. Mayor Christian J. Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Roll call was taken and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Donna Yeager, Carol Franzen
and Eric Dupps. Also present was City Attorney, Mr. Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced that the special meeting of the city council was
called to discuss and possibly take action on the following agenda items:
·   Ordinance No. 2004-0-25 – Second Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2004-0-26 – Second Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2004-0-27 – Second Reading
·   Approving development plan for parcel of the Meadow Glen Subdivision
·   Executive Order No. 2004-EO-07 appointing Kent Kelso to OKI
·   Executive Session (if necessary)
Ordinance No. 2004-O-25 - Approving a Map Amendment from R-1C to R-2(PUD)-2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi stated One Eleven Developers, per Jim Bertram, on behalf of
Nancy and Everett Flanagan has made application asking Kenton County Planning
Commission to review a proposed map amendment changing an approximate 26-acre
area located on the east side of Madison Pike between Walnut Hall Drive and
Harris Pike from single-family residential zone to a two and multi-family
residential zone with a planned unit overlay.
Council Member Bushong made a motion, with a second by Council Member Dupps, to
open the meeting for discussion. Council Member Yeager asked Mr. Jim Bertram to
give a summary of the schematic drawing presented to them from the Sanitation
District. Mr. Bertram stated the new development will tie into Hartland
Subdivision and a gravity sewer will run along Fowler Creek that will also
serve Walnut Hall residents. Council Member Yeager asked who would bare the
expense of putting in more sewers. Mr. Bertram stated it would be up to the
Sanitation District. Council Member Franzen asked if the new sewers would also
service some residents on Madison Pike and Peach Drive. Mr. Bertram stated it
would. Council Member Yeager asked if the streets in the new development would
be considered private streets. Mr. Bertram stated the streets would be private
which will be north of the connector street and only the main connector drive
would be maintained by the city.
Mr. Bertram stated he did not want to divulge his source, but has received a
letter of intent for all (102) one-hundred two units. With no more questions,
Mayor Moriconi asked Attorney Jed Deters to read the ordinance.
Mr. Tim Theissen stated when he spoke to Mayor Moriconi; he advised him there
were two conditions that would be added to the ordinance. Mr. Theissen stated
in regards to the traffic study requested by the planning commission, he asked
if the study could be held off until Madison Pike is widened and also would
like to wait on the turn lane until the improvements are completed to the Towne
Center by Mr. Charles Deters or by the State of Kentucky.
Mayor Moriconi stated the wording in the ordinance states, “substantial
completion”. Council Member Brinker asked if a date had been specified in the
ordinance. Council Member Bushong asked who would make the “judgment call” on
the date. Mayor Moriconi stated that would be up to Mr. Charles Deters.
Council Member Brinker asked if Mr. Charles Deters had a certain amount of
years for the completion.
Mayor Moriconi stated if a time limit was not established, the city will have
to wait.
Mr. Theissen then stated they are required to put a buffer between residential
and commercial properties. He stated Mr. Toebben’s property is zoned
residential but if he changes to a commercial development then screening would
not be required between the two properties.
Council Member Behler stated commercial areas never use enough landscaping
which makes the area ugly and asked if they are required to use a buffer, to
contact the Kenton County Extension Center for free help on what to use as a
buffer.
Council Member Bushong stated he would like the developer to consider adding a
ranch type structure on some of the two story condos. He stated there is also a
parking problem in the Beechgrove area and hopes they will consider additional
type parking for guests in this development.
Mr. Bertram stated they will take all considerations to heart. Council Member
Dupps stated from the drawing there is no room for parking on the private
streets. Mr. Bertram stated he would prefer more off street parking rather than
everyone parking on the street which is the purpose of the driveways. He stated
he would like to keep the streets down to (22) twenty-two feet which would
deter on street parking. He stated there will be guest parking around the
clubhouse and will take into consideration adding additional parking among the
buildings to provide additional parking.
Mayor Moriconi stated Mrs. JoAnn Cobble would like to speak. Mrs. Cobble stated
the drawings behind Tab 3 showed no garages nor does the floor plan show any
stairs to the garages.
Council Member Franzen stated those units will be facing the roadway and the
plan was to put the garages in the back so you would not see the garages from
the front. Mr. Bertram stated it is a concept and the garages will be under the
living space with parking in the rear. He stated the final drawing will show
the garages and also steps into the living space.
He stated these drawings are showing the type of architect of the buildings
they want to use more than anything.
Mrs. Cobble stated the units that face the new section of SR 17 also face a
steep embankment and asked if all storm water runoff, erosion and slippage had
been addressed.
Mr. Bertram stated a GEO Technical Engineer will be hired to help with the
design plus there will be two retention ponds.
Mrs. Cobble stated the drawing shows only four parking spaces around the
clubhouse and pool area and felt more parking spaces would be needed. She
stated that the (28) twenty-eight foot connector street is not narrow relative
to other city streets and one citizen had expressed concern regarding waste
pickup on the connector street. She stated it looks as though the drawing is
showing dumpsters for the commercial sites and asked what the plans are for
residential waste pickup.
Mr. Bertram stated they are looking into a community dumpster but may not be
the best solution as residents like to have their trash picked up at the end of
their driveway.
Mrs. Cobble asked that in the future, the print on the drawings be made larger
for easier reading and also asked that they plant Aristocrat pear trees.
Mayor Moriconi stated these are valid points regarding parking spaces mainly
for the police department.
Chief Butler stated that these streets are private and if there is a parking
issue that will have to be handled between the residents because the police
cannot enforce parking issues on private property.
Mayor Moriconi asked City Attorney Deters with the additional proposals to the
map amendment, does that need to be included in the motion to approve.
City Attorney Deters stated if those proposals are added, it is not substantial
enough to do another first reading. He stated the ordinance should be read with
the additional proposals.
Mayor Moriconi asked City Attorney Deters to read Ordinance #2004-0-25 to add a
clarification and a modification of the ordinance.
Council Member Franzen asked how the issue of the buffer between the
residential and commercial areas will be handled.
City Attorney Deters stated that is being done by saying “no screening”.
Council Member Dupps stated they want to say no screening will be required on
roadways internal to the development.
Mr. Bertram stated that is fine. City Attorney Deters again read the ordinance
with the additional proposals.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2004-0-25, with a
second by Council Member Behler. Roll was called was answered with Mr. Bushong
voting no. The motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2004-0-26 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment adding Banks and
Other Financial Institutions to the List of Conditional Uses within the R-1D
Zone - 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi asked City Attorney Deters to read the ordinance. There being no
discussion, Council Member Franzen made a motion to accept Ordinance No. 2004-
0-26, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Mayor Moriconi asked if anyone
representing Fifth Third Bank would like to speak. Council Member Franzen
stated she would like to request that Fifth Third Bank work hard to get the
state to install a traffic light at that intersection. Roll call vote was taken
and the ordinance was passed with a 6-0 vote of all ayes.
Ordinance No. 2004-O-27 - Approving Annexation of Freedom Trail LLC Property -
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi asked City Attorney Deters to read the 2nd reading of Ordinance
2004-0-27. Council Member Yeager made a motion to approve the annexation of
Freedom Trail, seconded by Council Member Brinker.
Council Member Yeager asked Mr. Michael Duncan, Attorney and a member of the
LLC, if there will be an ingress and egress off of Madison Pike from Freedom
Trail and if there is, can the equipment be brought in and taken out that route
so there can be no damage done to our city streets.
Mr. Duncan stated when they obtain their encroachment permit from the highway
department they can do that.
Council Member Franzen asked if the annexation is voted down, will they
continue with the construction.
Mr. Duncan stated they would. He stated everything will stay the same but there
will be continuity of the jurisdiction that sweeps the streets, snow removal,
etc. He stated the streets will go in and out of the city a couple of times the
way the city jurisdiction line is now.
Council Member Dupps stated the concern is how much street is the city going to
annex and bring in and then have to maintain and repair in the future and does
this make sense because the way it lays out as opposed to adding on to the back
end. He stated he was against the back end that was added on to Freedom Trail
just for that reason.
Chief Butler stated if the city does not annex it then you are going to have
approximately three hundred feet in the city and approximately one hundred feet
in the county and then back in the city again. City Attorney Deters stated it
also creates taxing problems because the residents won’t know if they are in
the city or just the county.
Mayor Moriconi stated with no more comments to have a roll call vote. The
motion passed 6-0 to approve the annexation.
Approval of Stage II Development Plan for a 25-Acre Parcel at Meadow Glen
Subdivision
Mayor Moriconi stated he needs a motion to ratify approval from the Planning
Commission.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to approve, seconded by Council Member
Behler.
Council Member Bushong stated he would like to ask the incoming council to take
a hard look at retention ponds. He stated there are a few retention ponds that
are very near roadways and are an attractive nuisance but also a danger to
young kids. He asked that it might be possible to have retention pond areas
fenced in the future.
Council Member Dupps stated maybe that could be made a requirement thru the
planning commission.
City Attorney Deters stated he feels when the storm water comes under the
jurisdiction of the Sanitation District, there will be uniform standards
throughout the county.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a roll call vote for approval. The motion passed with
a roll call vote of all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2004-0-27/Appointing Kent Kelso to OKI Regional Council
Mayor Moriconi stated as Mayor, he was passing this executive order to appoint
Mr. Kent Kelso to the OKI Regional Council of Governments as the city’s
representative for a one year term to end December 2005.
All council members signified with 6-0 ayes.
Mayor Moriconi wished everyone a merry and safe Christmas and thanked Jim
Bushong, Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker and Eric Dupps for their services to the
city.
Council Member Franzen stated she is going to miss Council Members Behler,
Bushong, Dupps and Brinker and has enjoyed working with them.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to adjourn, so moved by Council Member
Dupps, seconded by Council Member Brinker. The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
                     _________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
_____________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger,
Assistant City Clerk
2005 Minutes
January 3, 2005
Opening
1.   The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday,
January 3, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with
Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend John Cheadle, the new pastor of
Independence Christian Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook,
Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
2.   Mayor Moriconi welcomed the four new council members as well as returning
members Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 6, 2004 Regular Council Meeting
3.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the December
6, 2004 regular council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second
from Council Member Yeager. Council Member Yeager stated that during this
meeting she had requested a representative from the Sanitation District attend
a council meeting to explain if the development on the Flanagan property would
be taping into the Fowler Creek sewer lines. Council Member Franzen stated she
thought that request was made at another meeting, but that Council Member
Yeager had requested the developer construct twenty-five percent of the
residential section at this meeting. Council Member Yeager stated she had made
the request again at this meeting. There being no further discussion, roll was
called and answered with three yeas and three abstains by Council Members
Cobble, Cook and Little. City Attorney, Mr. Jed Deters explained that the three
abstentions are counted with the majority votes. Motion carried.
Approval of the Minutes of the December 20, 2004 Special Council Meeting
4.   Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the December
20, 2004 special meeting. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. Council Member Cobble and Council Member Franzen noted
amendments. There being no objections to the amendments, roll was called and
answered with three yeas and three abstains by Council Members Cobble, Cook and
Little. Motion carried.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
5.   Ken Lancaster, 733 Cox Road addressed council regarding an on-going zoning
violation behind the Cherokee Shopping Center. He submitted photographs that
showed debris, including construction materials as well as large items that
have been left by the dumpsters by unknowns. Mr. Lancaster advised council that
this constant discarding of large items and recurring debris continues every
week.
6.   Mr. Lancaster stated that he would like the city to have a professional
landscaper look at the area to suggest cleanup options. Mr. Lancaster feels
this would be a permanent clean up of the area and deter passersby from
discarding their unwanted large items.
7.   Council Member Yeager told Mr. Lancaster she was sorry he had to bring
this issue before council again. She stated she feels the Zoning Administration
should be there to do something about this ongoing problem. Council Member
Cobble asked Mayor Moriconi the status of this zoning violation and if the
Zoning Administrator had inspected the area. She stated Mr. Lancaster sent a
very courteous letter to the city asking that this problem be addressed.
8.   Mayor Moriconi advised council that the owner of the property has been
cited. He asked Mr. Deters to comment on available options for this type of
persistent violation. Mr. Deters advised that there is a process the city has
to follow when dealing with these violations. Council Member Cobble suggested
citing the violator to the Code Enforcement Board. Mr. Deters advised it would
have to go through the appeal process first. Council Member Cobble expressed
concern that Mr. Lancaster has not received a progress report from the Zoning
Administrator. Mayor Moriconi directed the City Clerk to obtain an update on
the progress of this violation from the Zoning Administrator. Also, Mayor
Moriconi advised Mr. Lancaster he would receive a call from the Zoning
Administrator this week.
9.   Ike Gabbard was next to address council. Mr. Gabbard declined to provide
his address and cited state statute that supports he is not required to provide
his address.
10.   Mr. Gabbard stated he just wanted to congratulate the voters for electing
this council. He stated he feels they will do great things for the city.
11.   Jeff Hemsath, 728 Stablewatch, Independence, addressed council regarding
the terrible condition of the roads after the recent snowstorm. He stated he
could understand to a point the impact this storm had on the city, but he
stated there was a obvious separation line between the city boundary of Taylor
Mill and Independence.
12.   Chief Butler responded that the city would be meeting with the county
officials this week to discuss better solutions in handling future storms. He
stated that the city heard from may complainants. He advised that the city
contracts with the county to handle seventy percent of the city streets for
snow removal. He also advised that two of the city’s three trucks had
transmissions go out which hampered an effective treatment of the roads. Chief
Butler stated that this storm exposed the weakness that exists in the city’s
Public Works Department due to lack of personnel and equipment. He stated that
the three Public Works employees were working sixteen-hour shifts trying to
keep up with the snow removal. Mayor Moriconi commented that additionally, this
storm occurred during Christmas week. Council Member Franzen commented that she
received calls from residents; some lived on streets that the city personnel
handle and some lived on streets that the county employees handle. She
commented that when she called the city employees to respond to the complaint
that she received good response and that she couldn’t say the same for the
county. Council Member Cobble suggested being watchful of the county to ensure
the city is getting a good value for the $16,000 the city paid. Council Member
Yeager stated that she was housebound for four-five days and as a council
member did not get any favors in having her street cleared of the snow and ice.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2003-O-01 – Setting Time and Place
of the City Council Meetings – 1st Reading
13.   Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed
ordinance that will amend the current Ordinance No. 2003-O-01 that sets the
time and place of the city council meetings. He stated that now that all
meetings will take place in the new Municipal Center Council Chambers it has
caused the amendment of this ordinance as a matter of ‘housekeeping’.
14.   Council Member Cobble suggested including the text “an actual or
observed” in Sections I and II. There being no objection to this suggestion,
Mr. Deters added the language and gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mayor Moriconi advised the ordinance would have a second reading at the
February 7, 2005 meeting.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
15.   Chief Butler stated he did not have anything to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
16.   Mayor Moriconi requested that Mr. Deters provide the council with an
update regarding the cluster mailbox issue in the Clover Ridge Subdivision. Mr.
Deters replied that he has been exchanging written correspondence with an
attorney representing the U.S. Post Office. He stated that he sent a letter in
November outlining the city’s position with regard to the city ordinance, which
prohibits the installation of cluster mailboxes, and to date, has not received
a reply from the Post Office attorney. He advised that the next step would be
to take enforcement action to remove the cluster mailboxes that have been
installed in Clover Ridge.
17.   Mayor Moriconi advised when a response is received from the Post Office,
he will copy each council member.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order No. 2005-EO-01 – Citizens Budget & Economic Development
Committee Appointment
18.   Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2005-EO-01 appointing Mary Pat
Behler to the Citizens Budget & Economic Development Committee. He stated that
Ms. Behler would be replacing Mike Little. He thanked Mr. Little for serving on
this Committee the past year.
19.   Council Member Cobble read a prepared statement wherein she commented
that while she did not object to the Mayor’s appointment of Ms. Behler to the
Committee, as believed she was a good choice, she reminded Mayor Moriconi that
it has been requested by former council members that he provide a brief bio of
his appointees. She requested that he continue that procedure in the future.
20.   Council Member Cobble went on to make comments regarding the Committee’s
practice of having their meetings in private and stated that she believes the
Committee should adhere to the Open Meetings Act as mandated in KRS Sections
61.800 through 61.850. She stated that the argument used in the past that the
Committee is just an “ad hoc” committee, which has no budgetary or legislative
powers, is irrelevant with regard to the statutory requirements of the open
meetings laws. (For the official record, Council Member Cobble’s full statement
is attached to these minutes). Council Member Cobble requested this subject be
open for discussion and added that she would be in favor of tabling the
appointment to the Committee until the next meeting if the majority of the
council would like more time to research the issue she brings forth.
21.   Council Member Kelso asked if this Committee was acting outside their
scope, by making policy or in violation. Council Member Cobble reiterated the
Committee was in violation of state statutes regulating open meeting laws.
Council Member Kelso asked if the Committee has made budget decisions. Mayor
Moriconi stated the Committee was just a group of volunteers that serves as an
advisory group to the Council. He stated that have no authority and only make
recommendations. Mayor Moriconi suggested he should just dissolve the Committee
if Council had objections to their meetings taking place in non-public
locations. Council Member Franzen stated the committee members usually meet in
one of their homes, in a relaxed atmosphere, but that they present their
recommendations to Council at an open, public meeting. Council Member Kelso
stated he would hate to see the Committee dissolved and stated he would be
concerned if they were making city budget decisions. Council Member Cobble
stated that while the Committee has no power, that is a moot point, and she
agreed with Council Member Kelso that the Committee should not be dissolved, as
she feels they serve a great purpose.
22.   Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters if the Committee is required to keep
minutes of their meetings. Mr. Deters stated they should be keeping some form
of minutes. Mayor Moriconi asked the Committee Chairman, Darrel Herald if he
would like to address Council’s concerns. Mr. Herald stated the Committee would
be presenting an Economic Development report at the January 24, 2005 caucus
meeting. With regard to the open meetings concern, Mr. Herald stated that
nothing they discuss would be considered confidential information, except
budget issues that deal with staffing positions. He stated the Committee only
consists of seven people and that he agreed with Mayor Moriconi that perhaps
the Committee should be dissolved and then residents can present their
individual ideas and comments directly to the Council at the public meetings.
He stated that he feels the Committee would not be productive in an open forum.
23.   Council Member Cobble stated that it is possible that the public would
not even attend the open meetings of the Committee, but that the Committee has
to comply with state statute regarding open meeting laws. Mr. Herald asked why
this concern is just now being brought up. Council Member Cobble stressed the
importance of following the rules. Mayor Moriconi closed the discussion by
advising Council that he would take the issue under consideration. He advised
Council that the Citizens Budget and Economic Development Committee would
present their recommendations at the caucus meeting which will be held on the
fourth Monday of this month – January 24, 2005 – as the third Monday is a
federal holiday (Martin Luther King Day).
24.   Council Member Kelso asked if they had resolved the issue of the
Executive Order. Mr. Deters advised that the Mayor’s Executive Order does not
require Council’s approval. Council Member Cobble suggested deleting the text
in the Executive Order that reads “approved by council”.
Announcement
25.   Mayor Moriconi announced that Chief Butler would leave on Saturday for
the FBI Academy and return in March. He stated it is an honor for the Chief to
be selected to this Academy and wished him well.
Discussion Regarding Adopting Rules of Order for the Council Meetings
26.    Council Member Kelso presented looking at adopting Rules of Order to run
the council meetings. He stated that most councils including federal and state
agencies run their meetings with Robert’s Rules of Order. He suggested that
some of the issues address at this meeting could have been handled under
Robert’s Rules. He stated he felt that a Municipal Order would be the
appropriate document by which the Rules should be adopted to guide this
Council.
27.   Council Member Cobble agreed that it would be a good idea to adopt rules
by which to run the meetings. Council Member Franzen stated she also agreed but
would like more time to review the proposed Rules of Order. Council Member
Cobble commented that parliamentary procedure will be discussed at the City
Officials Academy some of the council members will attend next week in
Lexington. Council Member Kelso stated that he would just like to see this
Council implement some guidelines for conducting the meetings.
28.   Mayor Moriconi advised that this would be discussed further at the
February 7, 2005 council meeting.
Discussion Regarding the Flanagan Property Re-zoning at the December 6, 2004
Meeting
29.   Council Member Cobble read a prepared statement expressing concerns she
and others had with regard to Charles Deters presentation to Council and the
legality of the prepared ordinance he submitted opposing the proposed
development of the Flanagan property, which is located directly across from the
Independence Towne Center. In the prepared statement, she also expressed that
she felt this situation created a conflict of interest for Jed Deters, the city
attorney whose is the son of Charles Deters, owner of the Towne Center. She
stated that she feels a person should have recused himself from giving legal
counsel to the city regarding the ordinance presented by his father relating to
the Flanagan property zone change. She stated that in the future, should a
conflict of interest arrive for Mr. Jed Deters, that the Council should request
that he recuse himself (For the official record, Council Member Cobble’s full
statement is attached to these minutes).
30.   Mr. Jed Deters responded to Council Member Cobble’s assertions by stating
that Charles Deters, his father, was looking to find the support of a council
member to sponsor the ordinance he presented, but no council member came
forward to present the ordinance for a first reading. Secondly, he advised
Council Member Cobble that Charles Deters is not his boss as his father is
retired from the law firm. Mr. Deters advised Council Member Cobble there is no
“heir” until there is a death, and just because he is Charlie’s son does not
guarantee him the right to be an heir to his father’s estate.
31.   Council Member Cobble countered that many people recognized there was a
clear conflict for Mr. Deters. Mr. Deters stated that he knows full well when a
conflict exists for him and he does not feel there was a conflict in this
matter. Council Member Franzen stated that since the vote favored One Eleven
that this is a moot point. Council Member Cobble stated if this situation
happens again she will advise council of Mr. Deters conflict of interest. Mr.
Deters stated that it is not council’s decision to determine if a conflict of
interest exists for him; it will be his decision to determine if one exists.
Council Member Yeager stated she supports Jed Deters in this situation as she
feels he did not express his views regarding the proposed development of the
Flanagan property. She stated that Charles Deters was well aware that he needed
to have one of the council members sponsor the ordinance he was trying to
submit. Council Member Cobble stated that no one but a council member could
sponsor proposed legislation; that people cannot draft their own ordinances and
present to the council for adoption. Mayor Moriconi stated that any council
member could motion to have a reading of an ordinance presented to the Council.
Mr. Deters stated that both ordinances for the proposed development of the
Flanagan property were properly introduced before council. Council Member
Franzen reiterated that the issue is a moot point and asked that the discussion
of the issue be put to rest.
Discussion Regarding the Maintenance of the County Roads Within Incorporated
City Limits
32.   Council Member Little advised he has been researching the decision handed
down by the Kentucky Supreme Court affirming that county roads annexed into the
city become the maintenance responsibility of the incorporated city. He stated
he would like to discuss what he has learned about this issue at a future
meeting. He stated that as he sees it, there might be a couple of ways to
benefit the city that would assist with the maintenance of the seventeen miles
of county roads that run through the city. He distributed copies of the Supreme
Court decision to the council members.
33.   Mayor Moriconi advised the city is requesting some clarification from the
county attorney regarding particular streets that divide city and county
boundaries. Mr. Deters advised that the city has not yet received an interlocal
agreement proposal from the Kenton County Fiscal Court. Chief Butler stated the
county has submitted a price list and it is up to the city if we want to
exercise the proposed options. He stated he feels there are some issues worth
challenging, as he does not see how the city is entirely responsible for a road
when only a portion is part of an annexation. Council Member Little feels the
city may have some leverage in a challenge if it can be established that a
particular street is used for a specific county purpose. Council Member Franzen
suggested that the Deputy Judge-Executive, Scott Kimmich be invited to speak to
Council about this at a future meeting. Chief Butler stated that he does not
think Mr. Kimmich will be receptive to addressing Council on this issue as the
county’s position is that the Supreme Court decision is very clear in that the
county legally cannot maintain roads that have been annexed into incorporated
areas. He stated the county has provided the city with a price list for
specific services ranging from road maintenance to vehicle maintenance and it
is up to each city to decide if they want to continue receiving services from
the county or contract elsewhere. Council Member Little commented that he feels
the city can nail it down, but will have to follow-up. Chief Butler advised
that the various cities did not get an opportunity to meet with county
officials until December 11, 2004, when a joint meeting was held. He stated it
was a very long meeting wherein all the county services provided to the cities
was discussed. He stated that all county fees have been raised as well as the
addition of new fees, such as surcharges, etc. Chief Butler reported that he
has begun getting gasoline and fleet maintenance services elsewhere as he feels
it will be more cost effective for the city than the new fee schedule the
county has proposed. He advised that he has been involved in some discussion
with other cities regarding a collaborative bid to contract out the vehicle
maintenance. Mayor Moriconi stated that since all the cities had adopted their
budgets last June, the county might delay implementation of the new service
rates until July 1, 2005 to give the cities an opportunity to work the new fees
into the next budget cycle. Chief Butler commented it is believed that the
county is not concerned if the cities obtain service elsewhere. Council Member
Little commented that this is having a greater impact on ’’’’Independence’’
than on the other cities and he sees the county trying to operate as a private
business instead of the government agency that it is. Council Member Cobble
expressed concern that the county has their maintenance garage located on
’’’’Independence Station Road’’, over which their heavy trucks travel every day
and then expect the city to be entirely responsible for the maintenance of that
road. Council Member Yeager commented the same could be said for Richardson
Road on which the Kenton County Golf Course is located or Mills Road, which is
highly traveled by visitors to the county owned Mills Road Park.
34.   Council Member Little asked that everyone review the copy of the Supreme
Court decision he distributed, and then they can collectively consider possible
options that may be available to the city. Council Member Cobble asked Mr.
Deters to obtain a copy of OAG 68506 (Opinion of the Attorney General). Mr.
Deters advised that the 68 in that particular reference number tells him that
the opinion was rendered in 1968 and since that was thirty-seven years ago the
opinion is probably irrelevant today especially regarding the recent Supreme
Court decision. Council Member Little suggested the city might be able to
impose usage restrictions if we are exclusively providing maintenance of the
street.
Adjournment
35.   There being no additional issues presented for discussion, Mayor Moriconi
entertained a motion to adjourn. Council Member Kelso so moved, with second by
Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned
at 8:02 pm.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
City of Independence, Ky
January 24, 2005
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
24, 2005 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent
Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters.
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone to the caucus meeting and announced that no
formal action would be taken at this meeting.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi announced that no one signed in to address council.
Presentation by the Citizens Budget & Economic Development Committee
Mayor Moriconi introduced Darrell Herald, Chairman of the Citizens Budget &
Economic Development Committee, who would present the Committee’s Economic
Development Report to Council. (A complete copy of this Report is attached to
the official minutes of this meeting)
Mr. Herald began by saying it was an honor and privilege to serve on this
Committee and thanked the other Committee members for contributing many hours
of research that was necessary to assemble this report.
Mr. Herald stated that he acknowledges that the report is not a comprehensive
report, but rather a practical guide. He stated that one critical element of
their research was that the road system was not well developed. He stated the
committee also was recommending adding a Marketing or Economic Development
Director to the city staff. Mr. Herald stated that with the submission of this
report that the committee has completed their work.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Herald and all the committee members. He stated he
appreciated the time they put in to research the economics of the city. He
stated putting these ideas together would provide the city with a road map with
resolutions. Mayor Moriconi stated two interesting notes in the report was,
when looking at economic development the goal should be to provide community
services to the residents and not try to develop a shopping mecca. The other
was the recommendation to rezone some areas on the west side of town to light
industry and retail.
Council Member Cobble thanked Mr. Herald and the Committee. She asked Mr.
Herald for some specific suggestions to implement their recommendations into
policy. Mr. Herald stated the Committee feels the city should urge state
legislators to make improvements to SR 536 a high priority, as well as the
completion of SR 17. He stated that when the improvements are made the city
leaders should encourage businesses to locate along these thoroughfares. He
stated the city needs to continue to encourage commercial development by
rezoning more commercial areas in the city and consistently support businesses.
Council Member Cobble asked when the committee members spoke with political
leaders if they received any encouragement. Mr. Herald replied yes. He stated
they received positive feedback from Senator Damon Thayer, who is working with
the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet Secretary on some beneficial road
improvements for Independence. Mr. Herald also stated that that had spoken to
State Representative Tom Kerr who also promised to help in any way he could.
Council Member Cobble asked if the Committee had investigated rezoning options
for the Turkeyfoot Road/Richardson Road intersection. Mr. Herald indicated they
had not reviewed that area and were not able to exhaust every opportunity in
the city. He reiterated that the report is not comprehensive, only that they
tried to convey some options that are available. Council Member Cobble thanked
Mr. Herald
Council Member Kelso also thanked the committee. He asked Mr. Herald what he
perceived to be the city’s next logical step upon receipt of this report from
the committee. Mr. Herald commented that he felt the city needs to communicate
to the business community that the city was open for business. Council Member
Kelso commented that this goes along with the vision he has for the city and
that he will address this issue later on in the meeting.
Again, Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Herald and the Committee for all their hard
work.
Proposed Map Amendment Submitted by Fowler-Reese LLC for 88 acres Along the
east side of Fowler Creek Road – KCPC Application No. 1717R
Mayor Moriconi introduced for discussion an application for a map amendment
submitted by Timothy Reese, Fowler-Reese LLC, on behalf of owners Lewis W. and
Barbara A. Moore, Mark E. and La Deana Exeler, Robert E. and Ruth C. Exeler,
Trustees, Martin E. Neltner, Marjorie K. Neltner, Charles Thomas Neltner and
Penelope Jo Neltner. He stated the request is for a zone change from R-1A and
R-1C to R-1D for approximately eighty-eight acres located along the east side
of Fowler Creek Road between Sycamore Creek Drive and Cox Road. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the Kenton County Planning Commission has recommended approval of
the requested zone change and that an ordinance accepting that recommendation
will be presented at the February 7th council meeting for a first reading.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Don Stegman who was representing Fowler
Reese LLC.
Mr. Stegman introduced himself as a civil engineer with Cardinal Engineering.
Mr. Stegman presented a video presentation of the site for which a single-
family development is planned. He advised that the site is surrounded by other
new developments – Sycamore Creek, Claiborne and Lakefield by Drees. He stated
that the R-1D zone they are requesting is consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan. He stated they do not have a Stage I development plan in place yet but
advised the builders would be Keystone Builders, Dixon Builders and Ryland
Homes.
Council Member Cobble asked Mr. Stegman if they would be installing a street
extension stub to access the Carr property for possible future development. Mr.
Stegman confirmed they would be doing so.
Council Member Yeager asked if the sewer lines for this development would be
tapped into the city’s Fowler Creek main. Mr. Stegman stated yes. Council
Member Cobble stated that the she would definitely want that as a condition of
the development. Mayor Moriconi asked how many houses were planned for this
site and what the price range would be. Mr. Stegman advised that the
preliminary plan calls for 206 lots with a starting price of $165,000-$170,000.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the houses would have a first floor brick wrap. Mr. Tim
Reese advised that a house feature, such as brick wrap has not been established
yet. Council Member Cobble asked what percentage of the development would be a
PRDA (Physically Restrictive Development Area). Mr. Stegman advised that 20-25%
would be PRDA and they would follow the Kenton County Subdivision Regulations
regarding theses areas. Council Member Cobble asked why they did not plan to
use zone parameters of the surrounding areas. Mr. Stegman advised that the site
was a physically tougher site to develop. Council Member Cobble asked if they
would be putting in a turn lane on Fowler Creek Road. Mr. Stegman stated they
would install a turn lane on Fowler Creek Road and that there would be an
interior street network as well. Council Member Cobble also asked if the houses
would have a brick wrap. Mr. Reese advised they would address that request with
the builders if the city wants this as a condition of the zone change. Council
Member Cobble commented that she liked the 2.5 dwelling units per net acre much
better than the 2.7 units. Mr. Stegman stated it is a net density, which does
not include the streets. Council Member Cobble asked if the development would
have public/open space or common grounds. He advised that most of the open
space would be the hills and creek area, which would be platted on individual
lots or maintained by a homeowners association, which has yet to be determined.
He commented that an adjoining property owner has requested they not establish
a homeowners association. Council Member Cobble stated that she would like a
time frame to be established for the construction of the turn lane on Fowler
Creek Road.
Council Member Little asked if some lots would be more than 2.7 in density. Mr.
Stegman advised that 2.7 is the maximum net density. Mr. Reese advised most
will be 2.1 – 2.4 as they are attempting to stay below the 2.7 net density. Mr.
Stegman stated that the R-1D permits the lots to be reduced in size to enable
the preservation of tree areas. Mr. Reese commented that he was involved in the
development of the Meadow Glen subdivision and is aware that the city opposes
fifty-foot lots.
Council Member Franzen asked if all the lots would be seventy foot wide. Mr.
Stegman stated that the minimum lot size would be seventy foot with some lots
larger. Council Member Franzen commented that she also would like to see brick
wrap on the houses in this development.
Mayor Moriconi asked if this development would tie into the Shadybrook
Subdivision. Mr. Reese stated that eventually it would. Mayor Moriconi
commented that the Shadybrook Subdivision would have a large park that will
include athletic fields, a restroom facility and parking. Council Member Little
asked if there would be green space they would want the city to take over. Mr.
Stegman stated they will either develop shorter lots for a homeowners
association to maintain or they will develop larger lots for the individual
property owners to maintain; they would not be asking the city to take over
common green space areas. Mr. Reese stated they would probably plan for larger
lots for the individual property owners.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Stegman and Mr. Reese for a very thorough
presentation. He stated that an ordinance would be prepared and presented for a
first reading at the February 7, 2005 council meeting. Council Member Franzen
requested that a first floor brick wrap be a condition of the zone change. Mr.
Jerry Dusing, legal counsel for Fowler-Reese, LLC commented that he would
discuss the issue with the city attorney. Council Member Yeager requested that
tapping into the city’s Fowler Creek sewer line also be a condition of the zone
change. Mr. Dusing commented they would take these conditions under
consideration.
Request for City to Sponsor a Text Amendment -– Regarding Indoor ––––Shooting–
––Range––
Mayor Moriconi stated that the city is being asked to sponsor a zoning text
amendment that would add an indoor shooting range as a permitted use in the RC-
2 zone, which the current text does not address. He stated that the property in
question is located at 3456 Richardson Road and is owned by Bill Dehlinger.
Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld stated that the future tenant would be a
gun store with the shooting range in the lower level of the building. She
advised that new legislation mandates if a gun shop holds a federal license
then they are exempt from zoning laws. She said the prospective tenant holds a
federal license and would operate a gun shop, but would like to also operate an
indoor shooting range in the lower level of the building.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that a text amendment application has to be
sponsored by the city. Council Member Little asked if this property is located
at the end of Crowe Road. Mr. Dehlinger stated the property is at the
intersection of Richardson Road and Old Richardson Road near Banklick Creek.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the building had a full basement. Mr. Dehlinger said
yes and that they would control access to the lower level shooting range from
the top floor. Council Member Cobble asked if they would install acoustics. Mr.
Dehlinger stated they have not discussed that yet. Mr. Alex Logsden, the
prospective tenant stated that since the shooting range would be sub-level that
acoustics would probably not be necessary. He advised council that all the
range equipment would meet noise regulations relating to shooting range codes,
as well as bullet entrapment. Mr. Logsden commented that presently there is no
other shooting range in this area of Kenton County. He said their business
would encourage shooting as a sport and promote gun safety. He stated the
shooting range would safely accommodate five or six people.
Council Member Cobble expressed concern that this property is located in a
flood plain. Mr. Dehlinger stated a flood plain exists along the banks of
Banklick Creek. Mayor Moriconi asked if other council members had any comments.
Council Member Little commented that he thinks an all-in-one facility of this
type is a good concept. He stated that this might be a facility the city’s
police department could utilize. He stated he liked the idea of the range being
located in the basement area of the building, so that any shooting noise should
be minimal. He stated in keeping with the current vision for the city to
encourage more retail areas in the city, he would approve of sponsoring this
text amendment application.
Council Member Yeager stated she would also support this application. Council
Member Franzen stated she had no problem with approving this request and liked
that fact that the location was not a highly populated residential area.
Council Member Kelso asked if the business would be providing gun license
certification programs. Mr. Logsden replied yes; they will have a classroom and
will provide this program. He also stated they plan to target women and the
younger people to introduce them to gun safety and shooting as a sport. Council
Member Kelso stated he was in agreement to sponsor this amendment. Council
Member Cobble stated she had no objection to supporting this text amendment
application but was concerned about the flood plain and wondered if they would
be able to obtain insurance. Mayor Moriconi stated the lender may also have
some concern about the flood plain. Council Member Franzen commented they would
probably be required to purchase flood insurance. Council Member Cook stated
she was also in favor of supporting this text amendment application. Mr. Deters
advised he would prepare a resolution supporting this and submit it to council
for approval at the February 7, 2005 council meeting.
Proposed Map Amendment – for 5298 & 5302 Madison Pike from NC and R-1C to NC
KCPC Application No. 1722R
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mr. Jim Bertram who was present to speak on
behalf of Lee Ricky, Wallace Shelton and Robert and Barbara Flanagan regarding
a development plan for property located at 5298 and 5302 Madison Pike.
Mr. Bertram, of One Eleven Engineers, stated they have applied for a map
amendment for the two parcels requesting the zones be changed from NC and R-1C
to NC. He stated a public hearing before the Kenton County Planning Commission
is scheduled for February 3, 2005. He stated he will not be the developer and
is just providing engineering services.
Mr. Deters advised Mr. Bertram that this Council could not be provided with the
facts of this zone change request prior to the public hearing before the
Planning Commission on February 3, 2005. Mr. Bertram stated he just wanted to
make Council aware of the conceptual development plan and let them know that it
will carry the same theme as his professional office building located at 5296
Madison just south of these two parcels.
Council Member Cobble stated the former Chairman of the Independence Historical
Society told her that the little brown building has historical protection. Mr.
Bertram stated he was not aware of this but would look into it. He stated the
little brown building on the site is in bad condition.
Mayor Moriconi commented that this zone change application will proceed through
the proper channels, the first step being the public hearing scheduled for
February 3, 2005, then when the city received the recommendation from the
Kenton County Planning Commission, it will be placed on the city’s agenda for
consideration.
Discussion Regarding the Adoption of Rules of Order for the Council Meetings
Mayor Moriconi presented a draft Executive Order that would establish rules of
order for conducting city council meetings as suggested by Council Member Kelso
at the last meeting. Mr. Deters advised the language of the Executive Order
being presented are rules the Mayor considers beneficial.
Council Member Kelso had requested the Rules of Order be adopted by Municipal
Order and questioned the binding effect of an executive order on the Council.
Mr. Deters advised that it depends on the subject it addresses. He advised that
KRS says that the mayor runs the meetings. Council member Kelso countered that
KRS says that the mayor is the presiding officer, but it is the legislative
body that enacts the laws of the city. He stated that just as ordinances are
binding on the citizens, a Municipal Order would be binding on the Council.
Council Member Kelso stated he was not confident that an Executive Order was
the proper way to adopt the Rules of Order. Mr. Deters advised that he feels it
should be an Executive Order as it will be up to the mayor to enforce the
rules. Mr. Deters also expressed concern that this council should not bind
future mayors, as the next sitting mayor may not want to enforce such rules for
conducting the meetings. Council Member Kelso stated that he disagreed with Mr.
Deters and feels the KRS is very specific. He suggested getting together to
review the draft copies and determine an outline to submit to council at a
future meeting. Mr. Deters commented that when the legislative body dictates to
the executive authority then they are doing his job. Council Member Kelso
asserted that the draft Rules of Order that he submitted does not exceed or
conflict with KRS. Mr. Deters stated that the original draft that he reviewed
had KRS conflicts. He stated he would be willing to sit down and review the
content of the document in more detail. Council Member Franzen asked why Mr.
Deters felt the Rules of Order should be adopted by Executive Order. Mr. Deters
advised that it should be an Executive Order as it is the function of the mayor
to run the city and the city meetings. He stated it is inherently wrong for the
council members to tell the mayor how to run the city. Council Member Franzen
commented that she thought the Rules would be a tool for the mayor in running
the meetings and actually give him more authority. Mr. Deters stated it would
not give him more authority; it would only spell out the rules. Council Member
Kelso commented that an Executive Order does not give flexibility to the
Council to enforce. Mayor Moriconi commented that he is not convinced that the
Rules of Order is needed to conduct the meetings. He stated he would like to
review a final draft. Council Member Kelso commented that he feels the Rules
are necessary as he is not happy with the decorum exhibited at some meetings in
the past and feels it is time to control the meetings to achieve a more
professional code of conduct from everyone in attendance. Council Member Little
stated he agreed with Council Member Kelso and suggested reviewing all three
drafts that have been presented. Mayor Moriconi suggested Council Member Kelso
schedule a meeting with Mr. Deters to review the drafts. Council Member Cobble
commented that she partially agrees with Mr. Deters and does not want to
relinquish the Mayor’s executive powers. She also expressed reservations on
imposing criminal penalties for those who do not comply with the Rules. Council
Member Kelso stated that KRS imposes criminal fines. Mayor Moriconi advised
that a revised draft would be submitted at a future meeting.
Discussion Regarding a Vision Statement for the City
Council Member Kelso distributed “A Vision of Independence” statement to all in
attendance and presented this to Council for their consideration. He presented
this as a formal request to adopt a resolution that would approve the
establishment of a citywide initiative to develop a strategic vision for the
city. He proposed that a citizens committee be established to lead the process.
He stated that he has begun to collect a lot of information from the residents
and business owners and has come to the conclusion that a strategic vision
would guide the city leaders in making important decisions. He stated that the
committee could help the city set plans and goals relating to recreation,
transportation, safety and security that could be accomplished over the next
10-20 years. He stated that organizations that have a vision and specific goals
tend to be successful. He stated both the elected officials as well as the
citizens should share the goals.
Council Member Yeager suggested the city have a meeting with the public to
garner interested individuals, before making hand-selected appointments to this
committee
Council Member Little suggested inserting a citizen survey in the city
newsletter.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that a few years ago a strategic committee
called “Independence Tomorrow” was established. He stated they met for a year
and compiled a report, which was presented to the city council, which the
council would not adopt. He stated that strategic plan is basically collecting
dust. Mayor Moriconi expressed some doubt about appointing another committee to
accomplish the same goal unless some concrete results could be achieved and the
council would act on the results of the strategic plan produced by the
committee. Council Member Kelso stated the success of the process would depend
on the city leaders. He stated it was too bad that the former strategic plan
was not adopted.
Council Member Yeager stated she feels that every individual that asks to serve
on the committee should be welcomed. Mayor Moriconi advised council that he
would take the request under consideration.
Discussion Regarding Caucus Meetings
Council Member Kelso stated he would like the caucus meetings to be more
interactive with the audience. He stated he would like the city to give the
audience more opportunities to actively participate in the discussions of the
various subjects introduced throughout the meetings. Mayor Moriconi stated he
is flexible and responsive to anyone who raises their hand to be recognized
during discussions even if they have not signed in under privileges of the
floor. He stated he feels the caucus meetings in particular are very informal.
He asked if Council Member Kelso was suggesting that the privileges of the
floor be last on the agenda. Council Member Kelso stated he feels the caucus
meetings should be for the residents to ask questions of anyone, anytime during
the meeting. Mayor Moriconi reiterated that he always tries to give the
audience every opportunity to speak. He suggested another citizens survey could
be conducted to get more public input, since it has been several years since
the last survey was done. He stated the last survey was done in conjunction
with the Public Administration Department at NKU (Northern Kentucky
University). Council Member Yeager suggested publishing an article in the city
newsletter explaining the format of a caucus meeting. Council Member Franzen
questioned the feasibility of conducting council meetings in this way. Mr.
Deters commented that what Council Member Kelso is describing sounds more like
a public forum rather than a city meeting. Council Member Little commented that
he feels Council Member Kelso is trying to achieve is more open communication
with the public; listening to what they have to say about all the business that
comes before council.
Council Member Yeager recalled the former Independence Recreation Committee,
which was very active and worked with the council to accomplish development of
the city parks.
Council Member Kelso stated that the elected officials sit here at the pleasure
of the people and he would like to see a public forum format in order to obtain
feedback from the citizens.
Mayor Moriconi stated he has been attempting to connect both sides of the city
with marquees similar to the one in front of the city building. He stated those
signs are a great communication tool; a way to reach out and make the citizens
aware of different city happenings.
Tom Nicodemus, 10790 Autumnridge Drive, commented that he preferred the caucus
meetings being held at the Senior Center as he felt those meetings seemed less
formal, and had more of a town hall meeting feel. Council Member Franzen stated
that this new Council Chambers has the ability to televise the meetings live to
the residents who cannot attend in person and that this capability does not
exist at the Senior Center. She suggested the city could schedule town hall
meetings every couple of months. Mayor Moriconi stated the city just built this
state of the art Municipal Center and it would not be practical to move the
location of the meetings back to the Senior Center. Mayor Moriconi commented
that in the past the city has scheduled town hall meetings and no one shows up,
but the concept could be restored. Council Member Little stated he sees no
limitations in ways to gain citizens feedback and would not oppose walking the
neighborhoods to reach out to the residents. Mayor Moriconi stated utilization
of the city website and city newsletters are other ways to communicate with the
public. Council Member Franzen commented that the city gets website feedback
and asked to have the new council members set up to receive the website
feedback directly to their email. Mayor Moriconi explained how that worked.
Council Member Cobble recognized four members of Boy Scout Troop Number 271 who
were in the audience earning their communications merit badge. Council members
Cobble and Kelso had a brief conversation with the troop.
Mr. Darrel Herald addressed council again, by saying that he forgot to thank
Mr. Nicodemus for the time and effort he put in as a member of the Citizens
Budget and Economic Development Committee.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have a report.
Police Chief Report – Assistant Chief David Nichols
Asst. Chief Nichols commented that Chief Butler is away at the FBI training,
but is doing well and calls the office often.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi advised that the next recognized business of the month would be
at the February 7th meeting. He asked Council Member Cobble to let the City
Clerk know of her selection as soon as possible so that a plaque could be
ordered. Council Member Cobble stated she would like to select Carol’s
Hairstyling as the recipient of the Business of the Month for February.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that the snowstorm the week of Christmas
practically wiped out the snow removal budget. Council Member Cobble asked if
that included the $17,000 that was allotted for payment to the county for the
county roads that run throughout the city. Mayor Moriconi stated the $17,000
was over and above the snow removal budget amount.
Mayor Moriconi reported that he attended a recent Mayor’s Group meeting wherein
it was discussed that the Kenton County Fiscal Court is considering the
adoption of an ordinance that will establish an 8% insurance premium tax on
auto and property insurance policies. He stated the tax would not apply to
health and life policies. He stated the cities in the county that already
collect the insurance premium tax will continue to receive that revenue. If a
city has not enacted the tax then the county will collect the revenue that
would otherwise go to the city. Mayor Moriconi advised that the ordinance will
need to be enacted by the county no later than March 23rd and they are
considering a first reading of the proposed ordinance at tomorrow’s meeting.
Council Member Kelso stated that he is very concerned about this and that we
need to let the citizens know we are not in favor of this. He stated the city
would need to educate the citizens about what is happening with this tax. He
expressed concern that the county would turn over the maintenance of their
roads that run through incorporated areas and now propose to increase their
revenue base as well as increasing the cost of the services they provide the
cities. He stated he feels the county is generating revenue on the backs of the
cities and that the city needs to take firm stance. He stated if the county
enacts this ordinance he would submit the same for the city so that the revenue
generated from the city residents would stay in the city and not spent
elsewhere in the county by the Fiscal Court. Mayor Moriconi reported that
originally the county wanted to impose the tax on just the unincorporated areas
of the county by they learned they had to impose the tax countywide. Mayor
Moriconi advised county the city may have to have a first reading of a proposed
insurance premium tax ordinance soon as we would be held to the same time
deadline as the county, which is March 23rd. Council Member Cobble stated that
Kenton County cities that already have an insurance premium tax, but at a lower
rate than 8%, would find it necessary to increase their rate to that equal of
the county, or the county would get the difference.
Council Member Kelso stated the citizens should be encouraged to get involved
and let the county know they do not support this tax increase. Council Member
Franzen stated she would urge everyone to attend the Fiscal Court meeting
tomorrow night.
Marcus Cook, 96 Carrie Way, addressed council to say he thinks they need to
look at what they are suggesting, as they campaigned door-to-door and learned
from the residents, that eight out of ten don’t want to pay this insurance
premium tax. Council Member Little commented that several council members here
opposed the insurance premium tax when the city proposed enacting it back in
2003. He stated he hopes the county does not impose this tax, but it sounds
like they will. He stated this needs to be explained to the citizens. He stated
that if the city does enact this tax, it would be done because the city had no
other choice. Council Member Cook commented that she campaigned against this
tax and wants the opportunity to explain in detail why the city would now be
compelled to enact it.
Mayor Moriconi suggested the city have a first reading of an ordinance to
establish this tax at one of the future meetings, then before having a second
reading and enactment, we could wait to see if the county adopts it. He stated
if the county does not adopt the ordinance then the city would not have a
second reading.
On another subject, Mayor Moriconi gave the city council an update regarding
the outstanding zoning violation behind the Cherokee Shopping Center, which was
discussed at the January 3rd council meeting. He stated at the January 3rd
meeting that one might have thought no action has been taken in correcting the
problem, but it would have been a wrong impression. He stated that a timeline
relating to communication and action relating to the violation has been
provided in their packets. Mayor Moriconi stated that he did not have that
information with him at the last meeting to support the Zoning Administrator’s
efforts to correct this problem. He said there was some miscommunication
regarding the extent of what Mr. Lancaster expected the city to accomplish.
Mr. Lancaster asked Mayor Moriconi if the owner of Cherokee Shopping Center
(Mr. Meyers) has let the city know what he is willing to do regarding a long-
term solution to cleaning up the area. Mayor Moriconi stated he has not heard
back from Mr. Meyers, nor has the Zoning Administrator. Mr. Lancaster asked if
the city would follow up with Mr. Meyers in a couple of months. Mayor Moriconi
advised the city would follow up in the next thirty days.
Adjournment
There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member Kelso and
seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion was carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 9:05 pm.
                     _____________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
January 24, 2005
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, January 24 2005 at 6:45 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook,
Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the city council was called to
discuss one agenda item which was a grant application to the Land & Water
Conservation Fund Program to assist the funding of the construction of
basketball courts in Memorial Park and the adoption of a Resolution supporting
the application.
Resolution No. 2005-R-01 – Approving the Grant Application to the Land & Water
Conservation Fund for the Construction of Basketball Courts in Memorial Park
Mayor Moriconi stated the application is for a 50/50 grant which means the city
would have to fund 50% of the project cost if awarded the grant. He stated the
estimated project cost is $87,330.00. He presented Resolution No. 2005-R-01 and
directed City Attorney, Jed Deters to read the Resolution.
Council Member Cobble moved to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-01, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to adjourn the special meeting. Council
Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 6:48 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 7, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
7, 2005 at 7:00 pm at the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Jim Bushong gave the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Donna Yeager, Mike
Little, Kent Kelso, Carol Franzen, Margaret Cook and JoAnne Cobble. Also
present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Mayor Moriconi presented Carol Bach, owner of Carol’s Hairstyling with the
Business of the Month recognition as selected by Council Member Cobble.
Ms. Bach stated she has been in business for the last thirty-four to thirty-
five years and has enjoyed it all. She stated she was born and raised in
Independence and it was honor to receive the plaque and thanked city council
and the mayor.
Approval of January 3, 2005 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January 3,
2005 regular council meeting. Council Member Kelso so moved with a second from
Council Member Franzen. Council Member Cobble noted amendments. There being no
objections to the amendments, roll was called and answered with 6 yeas. Motion
carried.
Approval of January 24, 2005 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January 24,
2005 special meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council
Member Cobble. Roll call was answered with 6 yeas. Motion carried.
Approval of January 24, 2005 Caucus Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January 24,
2005 caucus meeting. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second by Council
Member Franzen. Council Member Cobble noted amendments. There being no
objections to the amendments, roll was called and answered with 6 yeas. Motion
carried.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mayor Moriconi stated no one had signed in for privileges of the floor.
Mayor Moriconi stated under items #3 and #4 on the agenda under New Business
regarding the insurance premium tax and repealing the vehicle sticker tax,
would be removed from the agenda.
Council Member Kelso asked Mayor Moriconi if it took a vote of council to
remove an item from the agenda. Mayor Moriconi stated he did not feel it would
on a 1st reading of an ordinance. Council Member Kelso stated that agenda are
pretty “sacred” once they are established. Council Member Kelso asked if the
city attorney could clarify that for future reference.
Council Member Cobble thanked the Mayor for removing those items for discussion
since Kenton County Fiscal Court has not acted yet; she felt the city would be
sending the wrong signal to our residents, as well as the Fiscal Court.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No.2005-0-01-Amending Ordinance #2003-0-1-Setting Time and Place for
Council Meetings - 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for approval, a second reading of an
ordinance setting the time and place for council and caucus meetings to be held
and asked Mr. Jed Deters to read.
Council Member Cobble so moved, with second by Council Member Little. Council
Member Kelso stated on page 1 of the Ordinance, Section II, he would like to
amend the date from January 3rd to January 24th for the Caucus Meeting. He also
requested an amendment on page 2, that the word “citizens” be added to the
sentence reading “the mayor, council members, officers, staff and citizens.
No roll call was taken but all council members answered with ayes.
Council Member Cobble advised the Mayor that roll call vote must be taken for
an Ordinance. Mr. Deters stated it is the law and it should reflect the ayes
and nays of council. Mayor Moriconi asked City Clerk, Patricia Taney to do a
roll call for Ordinance No. 2005-0-01. Roll was called and the motion carried
with 6 ayes.
Resolution No. 2005-R-02-Applying for a Text Amendment for a Conditional Use
for an Indoor Shooting Range
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a resolution and asked Mr. Deters to read.
With no discussion Council Member Little made a motion to approved, second by
Council Member Kelso. Roll call was answered with 6 ayes.
NEW BUSINESS
Resolution No. 2005-R-03-Approving Addendum to Senior Center Rental Agreement
Mayor Moriconi stated it was brought to his attention a few months ago by Nita
Brake that she has been recommending some changes on some of the rental
agreement issues. Mayor Moriconi asked Mrs. Brake to present her
recommendations to council. Mrs. Brake stated she would like to amend the
rental agreement.
Council Member Yeager stated before Mrs. Brake speaks she would like to point
out that the addendum states under paragraph #3 it states it “is seeking
approval from the City and the Senior Center Board of Directors.” She stated
the Senior Center Board of Directors does not have anything to do with renting
the Community Center and asked that it be deleted from the Resolution. Mrs.
Yeager also pointed out in the memo, under #1. “non-profits”, she would like to
add the wording of “approved non-profits”.
Council Member Kelso asked what would be an unapproved non-profit organization.
Mrs. Brake stated it would be an organization that does not have a 501C3.
Council Member Cobble referred to Mrs. Brake’s memo and asked how practical
would it be to charge someone $30.00 or $35.00 for two to three nights a week.
Mrs. Brake stated the Girl Scouts are there the 1st Tuesday of every month so
if another event could be scheduled during the same time the Center is already
open and would not cost any more to have several events to occur at the same
time.
Council Member Cobble asked if it was a law that if the restrooms have to be
opened to the public they must be cleaned that same night. Mrs. Brake stated
the restrooms are cleaned and she checks them before she leaves for the
evening. She stated she has had no complaints.
Council Member Franzen asked if an event is scheduled and it has to be
cancelled does that apply to wedding receptions. Mrs. Brake stated it applies
only to non-profit organizations. She stated an example there was previously an
event scheduled for 6:00 p.m. and no one showed up. Council Member Franzen
asked if they lose their deposit if an event is cancelled. Mrs. Brake stated a
security deposit is always required two weeks before an event and if it is
cancelled their deposit is not returned.
Mayor Moriconi stated the Center is becoming more popular and Mrs. Brake felt
changes needed to be made due to the demand of usage.
Council Member Franzen asked Mrs. Brake if she was looking to council to
establish some sort of “punishment” for the non-profit organizations that do
not give the required time to cancel an event. Mrs. Brake stated a verbal
warning could be placed on them the first time and thereafter they would not be
able to use the Community Center. Council Member Yeager asked if she would like
to add that wording to the Resolution. Mrs. Brake stated it would be good. Mr.
Deters stated it should be put in writing.
Council Member Kelso stated that our citizens are already paying taxes that
support the Community Center and felt raising the fees to rent the building is
a double taxation on Independence Citizens. Council Member Yeager stated not
everyone that rents the facility is a resident of Independence. Mrs. Brake
stated the fees that are charged to rent the facility are very low.
Council Member Kelso stated he feels the fees should be low to encourage people
to use the facility. He stated it is a Community Center and it is not going to
stand on its own and will always have to be subsidized by the city. He stated
it is already being subsidized by every citizen that pays taxes and stated he
would rather keep the rates at $30.00 instead of $35.00.
Council Member Yeager stated she would rather keep the minimum hours to be
rented at 4 hour intervals but are trying to satisfy the needs of people who
want to rent space for less than that. Mrs. Brake stated a business cannot
normally use the center for a four hour period and was told it would not be
feasible for a business to have to pay $60.00. Council Member Yeager stated the
question is do we want to rent out the Center for two hour increments or not.
Council Member Kelso stated he rented the facility at one time and they really
did not need it for 4 hours and felt that $60.00 was kind of irritating.
Council Member Yeager stated not too many people request 2 hour periods. Mayor
Moriconi stated with exercise classes making a comeback they are starting to
get requests for 2 hour periods. Mrs. Brake stated that would only be for
businesses. She stated if the Center is going to be rented for 2 hour
increments, they should coincide with other events that are happening at the
same time.
Council Member Cobble stated if they are going to allow the Center to be open
for 2 hour segments they might be cutting their throats. She stated if they
know they have the option to rent for a 2 hour period they may pay for that
time period and stay over the allotted time. She stated the city needs to
differentiate between non-profits and businesses and felt the fee of $35.00 per
hour was a fair price.
Mrs. Brake stated the two-hour rental is only available Tuesday through
Thursday. The rentals on Friday, Saturday and Sunday will pay the full price.
Council Member Kelso stated he liked what Mrs. Brake has presented and likes as
much flexibility as can be offered. Council Member Cobble then stated she
agrees with Council Member Kelso and the $30.00 rate.
Mr. Deters asked if Mrs. Brake distinguishes between residents and non-
residents, local businesses, non-local businesses. Mrs. Brake stated they do
not. She stated maybe they can offer a discount if they are a resident of the
city and if not, a higher price could be charged. Council Member Little said it
was a good idea to differentiate between citizens and non-citizens.
Mayor Moriconi suggested that Mrs. Brake incorporate the changes into the
Rental Agreement and re-submit to Mr. Deters. Mayor Moriconi asked what price
range has everyone agreed to. Council Member Franzen stated to leave the price
at $60.00 for non-residents and $45.00 for residents. Mayor Moriconi asked Mrs.
Brake if she knew the percentage of usage for non-residents and residents. Mrs.
Brake stated the non-paying rental usage vs. paid rentals which were 57 and
non-paid rentals were 157 which is a 3 to 1 ratio. She stated the Center
grossed $7,840.00 on rentals in 2004 which does not even pay for the upkeep of
the building. Council Member Yeager stated that $45.00 was to low.
Mr. Deters asked if the city was subsidized from the county. Mrs. Brake stated
they were not. She stated Kenton County donated $200,000.00 toward the
construction of the building but has not contributed anything since then. Mrs.
Brake stated you have to realize when that building is open for an event,
someone has to clean up afterwards, and a fee of $45.00 is charged and we are
paying someone $20 to $25 an hour, there is no profit made.
Council Member Kelso stated since this building is being subsidized with tax
money he thinks the prices are fair. If it is a non-resident then it should be
higher, if not significantly higher being $30.00 for a resident and $60.00 for
non-residents for a 2 hour period. Council Member Cobble suggested a rate of
$50.00 for residents and $70.00 for non-residents. Council Member Yeager
questioned if the building is rented out for an event now such as a wedding
reception, and the fee is $300.00, would that then change to $250.00. Mrs.
Brake stated yes, if they are a resident and they would have to prove
residency. Council Member Little asked if it would not be simpler to offer a
percentage discount to residents. Mayor Moriconi stated it is a bargain no
matter how you look at it with parking and playground amenities. Council Member
Cook stated when Mr. Ponzer rented the back area of his restaurant out he
charged $25.00 or $35.00 an hour and feels the city is selling itself short.
Mayor Moriconi stated council needs to make a decision so a new Resolution can
be drafted. He stated Council Member Little is requesting a 25% discount for
the residents. Council Member Franzen would like to split the charge to $50.00
for residents and $70.00 for non-residents for a two-hour period. Council
Member Yeager stated since there has been no complaints on the fee, she feels
it should be raised to $60.00 for residents and $70.00 for non-residents.
Mayor Moriconi stated the fees will be $30.00 for a 2 hour period for residents
and $50.00 for non-residents for a 2 hour period. Mrs. Brake asked if the 2
hour period was just for non-profit businesses with the minimum being 2 hours.
Mayor Moriconi stated the city attorney will review the changes when she
submits it to him.
Proposed Ordinance-Map Amendment –Application No. 1717R Fowler Ridge - 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi asked if anyone had any questions before Mr. Deters read the
Ordinance.
Council Member Cobble stated she would like to make a change under #7 to
reflect “in case the homeowners association defaults it will go back to the
developer or builders with the same covenants and restrictions that had applied
to the Homeowners’ Association” and should be applied to all developments
hereinafter that are going to have homeowners associations. She stated also
under #6 there could be a loop hole. She asked that the wording “certificate of
occupancy” be removed and changed to “when the first house was built”. Council
Member Cobble asked Mr. Dusing if that was okay with him. Mr. Dusing stated the
reason he selected the phrase “certificate of occupancy” is precisely for that
reason. Council Member Cobble asked if it can be changed to “the first
certificate of occupancy for any residence constructed.” Mr. Dusing stated he
will agree to say “prior to the issuance of the first certificate of occupancy
for any residence constructed in the development”.
Council Member Yeager stated she has also spoken to Mr. Dusing regarding the
sanitation lines being tied into the Fowler Creek Sewer Lines of the city. Mr.
Dusing stated he is 99% sure it will be tied into the Fowler Creek Sewer Lines
because it is gravity pulled.
Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Yeager wants to make sure this development
is tapped into the Fowler Creek Sewer Lines and not bypassed somewhere else.
Mr. Stegman stated the sewer lines follow the topography. Council Member Cobble
stated they have found out there is something called the “new Fowler Creek
line” which the city has nothing to do with. Mr. Deters stated the big concern
is the Fowler Creek Debt Reduction. Mr. Stegman stated the bulk of the sewage
will empty into the sewer line that runs up to serve the Drees Development at
Ridge point that came down and tied into the existing pump station that has
been eliminated. Council Member Yeager asked if that pump station was owned by
the city. Mr. Stegman stated the parcel of land that had the pump station on it
is owned by the City of Independence. Mr. Deters stated the city acquired part
of that property from Mr. Exeler when the city ran the Fowler Creek sewer lines
and it was then disconnected from the pump station. Mr. Stegman stated there is
a sewer that runs on the back side of the development that runs thru Sycamore
Creek. Mr. Stegman stated there are some lots on the back side of the ridge
that will be tied into Sycamore Creek sewer for gravity. Mayor Moriconi stated
not 100% of the development can go where we want it to because of the terrain.
Mr. Dusing stated the Sanitation District will not permit you to install a pump
station if you can go gravity.
Council Member Franzen asked how many homes will be built on the back part of
the development. Mr. Stegman stated there will be about 15 lots. She commented
that number will not make a whole lot of difference in the long run.
Council Member Cobble stated they want everyone to know the bottom line is,
council wants to protect everyone that is paying into the Fowler Creek Debt
Reduction and the goal is to get as many subdivisions as possible into the
Fowler Creek Sewers to help pay down the reduction. Mr. Dusing stated this
development will add approximately 191 homes to the Fowler Creek Sewer System.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to do a summary reading of the proposed
Ordinance. Mayor Moriconi stated the Ordinance will come back before council on
March 7, 2005 for a 2nd reading.
Resolution No. 2005-R-04-Adopting a Mission Statement for the City
Mayor Moriconi stated several council members have expressed an interest in
adopting a mission statement for the city. Mayor Moriconi stated the “verbage”
in the statement “while maintaining fiscal responsibility” should be deleted.
He stated the mission statement should read “to become one of America’s most
livable cities relentless in the pursuit of an outstanding quality of life for
our citizens.”
Mayor Moriconi stated this should be kept short so it can be added to the city
newsletter and website. Mayor Moriconi read the Resolution. Roll was called and
so moved by Council Member Little, with a second by Council Member Kelso.
Motion carried with 6 ayes.
Police Chief Report – Assistant Dave Nichols
Assistant Police Chief Dave Nichols stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to bring council up to date on the cluster mail
boxes. Mr. Deters stated there has been no change since the last meeting. He
stated he has not heard from their counsel, or received a reply to his letter.
Mayor Moriconi stated he received an e-mail today stating the post office is
installing cluster mail boxes regardless of the city’s law and apparently they
feel they supersede the city’s laws. Mr. Deters stated he did not feel that was
the case. Mayor Moriconi stated the post office is saying no matter what the
city has on their books, the post office is exempt from city laws and, can
still put them up. Mr. Deters, Council Member Cobble and Council Member Yeager
stated they disagree with the Post Office’s assertion. Mr. Deters stated he
feels the post office is forcing the city’s hand and when he does get a letter
to that effect, then council will have to make the decision as to whether or
not to challenge that decision and to what extent.
Mr. Deters also stated he needs to discuss with the City Clerk, Patricia Taney
regarding liens that he once filed on properties in the Fowler Creek sewer
project as soon as they were platted in new developments and would like to
resume that again.
Discussion Regarding the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt Assessment
Council Member Yeager stated she would like to discuss the Fowler Creek debt
reduction at the next caucus meeting. Council Member Cobble stated this is a
very important matter and would like the minutes to reflect that this matter
was brought up and they are making an investigation that is being spearheaded
by Council Member Yeager on the two sewer funds the city has. She stated this
cannot be put off any longer and we have to dig deeper because they have seen
some problems that needs to be taken care of. Council Member Yeager stated she
would also like to have Mr. Deters and Mayor Moriconi along with her to arrange
a meeting with the Sanitation District.
Mayor Moriconi asked council to review the paperwork Council Member Yeager has
gathered and would like their input at the next Caucus Meeting. Council Member
Cobble stated Ms. Yeager asked the second week of January when she started the
investigation and as of tonight we still do not have all of the paperwork.
Council Member Cobble stated on page 10 of the Financial Report, it states the
city is receiving an income of 15 times of what the city is paying out and that
just can’t be.
Discussion Regarding the Cox Road Turn Lane Improvements
Council Member Little stated he has had several citizens inquire as to when the
turn lanes are going to go in on Cox Road. Mayor Moriconi stated the developer
has $30,000.00 in escrow for a turn lane but we also asked the state if they
would extend the turn lane to Cox Road. He stated he met with the state, the
city engineer, the head person at 6th District Cabinet and Mrs. Wuestefeld in
November of 2004 to see if the state would donate funds but that gentleman has
now been promoted and is now in Frankfort, Kentucky so we feel it will not do
any good to proceed with the state but go back to the developer and have them
put in the turn lane as originally planned. Council Member Cobble asked if the
turn lane would be absorbed by the developer. Mayor Moriconi stated yes.
Discussion Regarding ALS Fire District Issue
Council Member Cobble asked what the status was regarding the fire district
taking over the ALS. Mr. Deters stated it was sometime in March or April. He
stated they have hired the paramedics for the ALS and they are right on target.
Council Member Cobble stated on page 4 of the Kenton County Homeland Security
Report there are 7 listings from June 27, 2004 thru December 23, 2004 where
they were called but had to have assistance from other cities because of “lack
of personnel”. Mr. Deters stated it probably means there was a squad or both
squads and the main pumper already out on anther call so they had to call for
mutual aid. He stated the needs probably exceeded their resources for that
particular call. He stated that is what the phrase “lack of personnel” would
mean.
Adjournment
There being no additional issues presented for discussion, Mayor Moriconi
entertained a motion to adjourn. Council Member Kelso so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned
at 8:16 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest
________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 28, 2005
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
28, 2005 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent
Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi advised that those who signed in for privileges of the floor
will reserve comment until the agenda item is presented for discussion.
Discussion Regarding the 1998 Interlocal Agreement with the Sanitation District
No. 1
Mayor Moriconi introduced and welcomed Mr. Jeff Eger, General Manager of
Sanitation District No. 1. He stated that he invited Mr. Eger to this meeting
to provide this Council with some history regarding the 1998 Interlocal
Agreement between the City and District that effectively turned over the
maintenance of the city sanitation lines to the District. Mayor Moriconi stated
that he appreciated Mr. Eger coming to the meeting and being so accessible to
the city.
Mayor Moriconi stated he would begin the questioning with Council Member Kelso.
Council Member Kelso stated he did not have any questions at this time.
Council Member Cobble stated she would suggest that Mr. Eger first provide
Council with some history of the Agreement and then she would like to ask a few
questions.
Mr. Eger stated the part of the 1998 merger Agreement included the directing of
the city to pay their portion of the GRW study, which was $203,220 over a ten-
year period. He stated that GRW is an engineering firm that Sanitation District
No. 1 (SD1) has used on many projects. He stated that prior to legislation that
was adopted in 1994 many cities owned and operated their own sanitation lines.
He stated the 1994 legislation allowed the cities to get out of the sewer
business and turn over their lines to SD1. He stated the KRS 220.135(a)
mandates that the cities shall pay 50% of the cost of repairs and the GRW study
revealed that the estimated cost of the repairs of Independence lines would be
$203,220. He stated this was based on the findings of the televising of 10% of
Independence’s system. Mr. Eger advised that SD1 agreed to honor that number
for each city, even though the repairs exceeded GRW’s study findings in many
cases. He stated that SD1 allowed the city to pay this amount to them over a
ten-year period interest free. He stated the current balance is $81,288. He
stated that to date, SD1 has spent $3,560,887 in repairs and upgrades to the
Independence sanitation system, as well as negotiated storm water management.
Mr. Eger stated that initially in 1994 when the cities were first able to merge
their sanitation systems with SD1, only three cities opted out of the merger
agreement. He stated those cities were Alexandria, Florence and Independence.
He advised that five years later when Independence city leaders approached SD1
requesting to opt in to the merger agreement, the conditions of that agreement
were different from what had been established in 1994. He advised that had
Independence opted in to the merger agreement in 1994 SD1 would have assumed
all the city’s capital debt, including the Fowler Creek sewer debt. He stated
that condition was not available to Independence in 1998; but that it was
negotiated that SD1 would give Independence a $300 credit for each tap in fee
collected by SD1 for properties within the city limits. He stated that other
cities did not get this tap in fee credit.
Mr. Eger stated that he feels the city has a legal question that may have
surfaced regarding the maintenance fee currently charged to all Independence
system users. He cited KRS 220.135(b) wherein it states the fee may continue
until such time the debt is paid off. He stated that it needs to be determined
if that statutes applies in this situation. He stated that SD1 is essentially
‘leasing’ the lines until the city pays this debt in full. He stated that if
the city currently has adequate funds to pay off the GRW study, then
technically the debt has been satisfied.
Mayor Moriconi asked, for clarification purposes, if the $6,000,000 Fowler
Creek sewer debt the city currently owes would have been assumed by SD1 in
1994, but not five years later when the city leaders finally opted for the
merger agreement. At that time, in 1998, when SD1 took over, they only took
over the maintenance of the city lines and the city retained the obligation of
paying off the debt. Mr. Eger confirmed that Mayor Moriconi’s statement is
correct.
Council Member Cobble asked when the new Fowler Creek gravity line was
installed. Mr. Eger stated that the gravity line was connected this past year.
Council Member Cobble asked if SD1 notified the city. Mr. Eger stated that SD1
is not required to notify the city as they have all rights of ownership.
Mr. Eger presented a map to illustrate to the council members the location of
the new gravity line and treatment plant on the east side of the city in the
vicinity of the Shadybrook and Clover Ridge subdivisions. He advised that the
Fowler Creek Road and McMillan Drive pump stations were removed and replaced
with the gravity lines. He stated that SD1 negotiated with the developers of
those subdivisions to run the gravity lines to allow for expansion in the area.
He stated that pump stations are inferior and costly to operate, so it was in
the best interest of the community to replace the pump stations. He stated the
Fowler Creek system runs by gravity. Mr. Eger went on to say that the Lakeview
pump station has problems during wet weather and with future growth projected
for the area, their long-range plans call for half of that to be diverted. He
stated that if the Independence system had remained a separate system new flow
could not have been taken.
Council Member Cobble expressed concern that with the pump stations being
removed new development is not able to tap into the Fowler Creek system and
those three new subdivisions are not paying the debt reduction assessment. Mr.
Eger stated the city is being compensated $300 for all new homes tapped into
the system, irregardless of whether it is into the Fowler Creek system or not.
Council Member Yeager expressed concern that there was no longer a Fowler Creek
system in that area. Mr. Eger explained that anything south of that pump
station goes into the SD1 system. Council Member Franzen commented that if SD1
installed their own system then those affected users should not be charge the
city fee. Council Member Cobble stated the users should pay if they are tapped
into the old Fowler Creek line. Mr. Eger stated that the Agreement directs SD1
to charge the properties as advised by the city.
Council Member Cobble referred to Section 3 of the Agreement regarding the $300
tap in credits that SD1 would remit to the city. She commented that since this
was mandated by statute that should not be considered a negotiable part of the
agreement as state statute is not negotiable. Council Member Franzen commented
the statute applied to counties and only by the good graces of the SD1 it was
granted to Independence. Council member Cobble suggested the $300 per house tap
in fee should continue for the life span of the Fowler Creek sewer debt. Mr.
Eger stated he did not believe it would be permitted for more than ten years.
Council Member Yeager stated SD1 raised the tap in fee shortly after the
Agreement was made with the city. Council Member Cobble concurred saying it was
six months later. She went on to say that of the $3,000,000 that Mr. Eger
asserts SD1 has expended on repairs over the last several years that it should
be noted that amount was offset by approximately $2,500,000 in revenue
generated by the tap in fees they collected.
Council Member Cobble referred to page one of the Agreement and asked who the
American Skandia Life Assurance Company was. Mr. Eger stated he was not sure,
but that it may have been the underwriting bond company.
Council Member Cobble referred to “repairs that remain for completion” – stated
very specific – thought the city was paying for repairs that…Mr. Eger asked if
there were areas in the city that were in need of repairs and if complaints
have been received from the residents, as he was not aware of any outstanding
repairs. Council Member Cobble the GRW study was conducted to identify the
necessary repairs that needed to be made to get the sewer system up to SD1
standards. She stated that if KRS 220.135(a) mandated that the city should pay
50% of the necessary repairs, why the city was required to pay the full
$203,220 in the GRW report.
Mr. Eger replied that since the city of Independence did not opt in at the
inception of the merger, it was one of the negotiations made in 1998 that
became part of the Agreement. In addition, SD1 has remitted the $300 tap in
fees, which was also part of that Agreement. He stated he is not aware of any
resident complaints regarding needed repairs to the system. Mr. Eger stated it
was a give and take agreement and reiterated that SD1 has increased the
capacity for future growth in Independence with the investment of $3,000,000 in
improvements including a new treatment plant.
Council Member Franzen recapped that if the city leaders in 1994 had opted into
the merger agreement with SD1 at the inception, then the city, and the
residents would not be burdened today with the Fowler Creek sewer debt. Mr.
Eger stated that was correct. Council Member Yeager commented that the
residents were told they would only have to pay the debt reduction for ten
years or so and now hears it is scheduled to be paid off in the year 2023.
Council Member Franzen stated she pays this assessment and that she was advised
it would be a twenty-year assessment and that she could pay it up front if she
wanted to.
Council Member Franzen asked it the city is responsible for any sanitary sewers
now. Mr. Eger stated no. She asked what the city could do with the remaining
funds once the GRW study obligation is paid. Mayor Moriconi wondered if the
funds could be used to pay toward the Fowler Creek debt. Mr. Eger suggested Mr.
Deters review the statutes to answer that question. He also stated there may be
some legal questions regarding the continuation of charging the maintenance
fee.
Mayor Moriconi stated that everyone pays the maintenance fee including Fowler
Creek system users, which are primarily east of Madison Pike. Council Member
Cobble stated that in her opinion the maintenance fee should have been
discontinued when the city entered into the merger Agreement with SD1. Council
Member Franzen suggested that since everyone is paying the maintenance fee that
the excess funds, over and above what is owned toward the GRW study, should be
used to pay down the Fowler Creek sewer bond debt.
Council Member Cobble suggested the city needed to come to a conclusion on this
issue as she feels that two years into that Agreement the maintenance fee
surcharge should have been taken off, because at that time there should have
been adequate funds to pay off the GRW study. Council Member Little asked when
the maintenance fee was established. Council Member Yeager stated it was
established by ordinance in 1978. Mr. Eger stated that many cities had
maintenance fees and that state statute permitted the cities to maintain that
fee. Council Member Cobble asked what percent of the maintenance fee was usage.
Mr. Eger advised that a maintenance fee or surcharge is generally a set amount
and whatever the city directed SD1 to charge is the amount that would be on the
user’s bill. Council Member Cobble asserted that in 1998 someone had to submit
a written directive regarding the amount of the surcharge. Mr. Eger suggested
that the fee schedule that was already in place at the time of the merger
Agreement in 1998 was automatically continued. He stated since it was
established in 1978 no change was made to it in 1998 and it was continued to be
charged to pay off the GRW study.
Council Member Franzen commented that she feels the maintenance fee should be
discontinued if there is enough to pay off the GRW study. But she stated she
agrees that those not tied into the Fowler Creek system should not have to help
pay down the debt. She suggested the Council has the authority to stop charging
the fee now. Mayor Moriconi agreed that it appears the city needs to rescind
the ordinance that established the maintenance fees as the city can effectively
fund the pay off of the GRW study. He stated this needs to be resolved and
directed Mr. Deters to review that possibility.
Council Member Yeager commented that she feels it is wrong that the users of
the Fowler Creek system have to continue paying the debt assessment until the
year 2023. Mr. Eger commented that the city is faced with two issues; whether
or not to continue the maintenance fee charged to all users of the sanitation
system and the other issue is the Fowler Creek. He suggested the city attorney
review the statutes. Mr. Eger also advised council that it is not uncommon to
levy an entire customer base to make improvements that benefit the entire
community.
Council Member Cobble thanked Mr. Eger from attending the meeting and providing
an account of the 1998 merger Agreement. In closing she referred to Section 7
of the Agreement wherein it states “the city shall send a written report to the
District after July 31 and before December 31 of each calendar year which will
identify” all debts as outlined in paragraphs A, B, C & D, and relating to the
operational sanitary sewer system of the city. She asked if SD1 would want the
city to provide that. Mr. Eger stated that it is in the city’s best interest to
resolve and eliminate any outstanding debt, and that he doesn’t feel it
necessary to know the city’s outstanding debt.
Council Member Cobble stated that she feels the lease merger was signed in good
faith and she would like to think SD1 would not intentionally undermine the
city if they can help it, but she feels there has been a negative impact of the
retirement of the Fowler Creek debt. Mr. Eger asserted that he feels the
installation of the treatment plants and gravity lines enhanced the city and
permitted future growth of an overloaded system. He stated he apologized for
not providing better communication to the city. Council Member Franzen
commented that the improvements made by SD1 did not undermine the city. She
stated SD1 had no choice as the Fowler Creek pump stations were at capacity.
Council Member Cobble stated she still feels the city should have been notified
that the pump stations were being removed. Mr. Eger stated the residents
benefited from the improvements and more can pay into the debt reduction
assessment. Council Member Yeager commented that she thought he said the city
could not feed into the old system. Mr. Eger stated that anything south of the
area could be charged the assessment.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Eger for his
time.
Request for City to Sponsor a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Automobile
Laundries
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that a request is being made for the city to
sponsor a zoning text amendment that would add automobile laundries as either a
permitted use or conditional use within the NSC zone. He introduced Mr. David
Stanfield, with Radius Construction Company who was present to make this
request. Mayor Moriconi advised council that it would be necessary to adopt a
Resolution authorizing the application of this text amendment. Mr. Stanfield
stated that he was making this request on behalf of Martin Neltner who would
like to construct a car wash facility on the front section of the property he
owns at 6463 Taylor Mill Road in the Cherokee Shopping Center. He stated the
area is currently serving as a parking lot for Mr. Neltner’s employees of his
billing service company. He directed council to the preliminary drawing of the
plans for the property that was inserted in their council packets. He stated
that vacant lot behind the building would be made into a parking lot for the
employees.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the car wash would be automatic or self-spray. Mr.
Stanfield replied that their preliminary plans would be to install one
automatic (tractor pulled) and two or three self serve units.
Council Member Cobble commented that this same request was introduced about
four months ago. Mayor Moriconi confirmed that an application had been made
last fall, but that on one attended the council meeting to elaborate on that
request. He stated that the Council had the impression that the request was
being made so that the car wash could be constructed in the vicinity of Cox
Road and Jimae. Council Member Cobble commented that there needs to be a
consensus of Council if this text amendment is desired, and she feels there
needs to be parameters set for this type of structure. She expressed concern
that the requester may present preliminary plans that Council would be in favor
of, only later to learn that the final plans changed drastically. Mr. Stanfield
stated that if they are able to get an approved text amendment, then they would
submit a site plan to the city.
Mayor Moriconi asked Council if there was a consensus to move forward with the
text amendment application. Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Stanfield that approval
by Council to sponsor the text amendment application does not mean they will be
in favor of the recommendation by the Planning Commission.
Council Member Cobble commented she did not feel the city should sponsor the
text amendment application if a majority would not favor adopting it if the
Planning Commission’s recommendation is for approval. Council Member Franzen
stated that while she likes knowing who is behind the application request, she
is less than thrilled with the proposed location for this car wash facility.
Don Barnett, 788 Jimae, stated that he feels Mr. Neltner has a nice building
and there is adequate parking in front which is also used by customers of the
other businesses in the shopping center. He expressed discontent with the poor
condition of the adjacent building that houses Robinson’s Meats and feels, that
in general, blight is settling into the east side of the city. Mayor Moriconi
advised Mr. Barnett that Mr. Neltner does not own the building that houses
Robinsons’ Meats.
Council Member Yeager stated that she has received phone calls regarding Mr.
Neltner’s plans for a car wash in that area and all the callers she spoke with
oppose the idea. She stated she feels it is a bad location.
Mr. Stanfield commented that Mr. Neltner’s employees own most of the cars in
the front parking area. Mayor Moriconi asked how many parking spaces are
planned for the rear parking lot. Mr. Stanfield stated there would be between
100-120 parking spaces. Council Member Yeager wondered how close the parking
lot would be to the adjoining properties. Mr. Stanfield advised the parking lot
would utilize the greater part of the lot. Mayor Moriconi asked if the cars
would be parked there mainly between 9:00 am and 5:00 pm. Mr. Stanfield replied
yes. He commented that Mr. Neltner is trying to improve the aesthetic of the
shopping center and if he could purchase the other building that houses
Robinson’s Meats, he would. Council Member Franzen stated that Mr. Neltner has
done a wonderful job with his building, but she doesn’t like the idea of a car
wash in the front lot. Council Member Yeager stated she also couldn’t vision a
car wash in that area.
Council Member Little asked the distance between the front of Mr. Neltner’s
building and the proposed location of the car wash. Mr. Stanfield stated they
only have conceptual plans at this time.
Council Member Cobble expressed concerns that an empty parking lot at night
would attract loiters after regular business hours. Mr. Stanfield advised they
would provide adequate lightning that would be shielded so that it would not
reflect on the surrounding residential properties.
Mr. Ken Lancaster, 733 Cox Road, commented that Mr. Neltner has done a
wonderful with the improvements he has made to the shopping center, but a car
wash in front of the other buildings would make mess of the whole area. He
stated that people go to a neighborhood shopping center to shop not wash their
car. He stated he strongly recommends that Council not approve this request, as
it is not the right location for this type of structure.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the rear parking lot could be gated to deter nighttime
loiters. Mr. Stanfield replied yes and advised that a parking lot would
actually clean up the area.
Council Member Cobble asked if they were prepared to address storm water
drainage issues. Mr. Stanfield stated they would look at all the issues during
the design of the parking lot. She stated she feels the lot should be 150 feet
from the residential property.
Mr. Deters stated he would prepare a resolution that would approve the
sponsorship of this text amendment application for presentation at the next
meeting. He asked if anyone had suggestions for conditions that they would like
to have imposed to send them to him and he would include these in the
resolution. Mayor Moriconi advised the proposed resolution would be presented
at the next business meeting, which is scheduled for next Monday, March 7, 2005
at 7:00 pm.
Proposed Map Amendment – for 5298 & 5302 Madison Pike from NC and R-1C to NC
KCPC Application No. 1722R
Mayor Moriconi advised representatives from One Eleven Engineering & Surveying
were present to submit their development plan for two parcels located at 5298
and 5302 Madison Pike. He stated that One Eleven has applied for a map
amendment requesting the current zones of NC and R-1C be changed to NC which
has received a recommendation for approval from the Kenton County Planning
Commission (KCPC). Mayor Moriconi advised if Council decides to accept that
recommendation from the KCPC, there would be a first reading of the ordinance
at the March 7th meeting with a second reading and enactment at the April 4th
meeting. He stated Mr. Jim Bertram and Mr. Darren Eyre would answer any
questions Council had regarding this zone change and development plan.
Council Members Yeager and Cobble asked if there will be two or three houses on
the site. Mr. Bertram replied there are two parcels that currently have three
houses, which will be razed to ready the property for two new structures. Mr.
Bertram distributed copies of the site plan to the Council. Mr. Bertram advised
the property addresses are 5298, 5302 and 5302 Madison. He stated that the 5298
Madison parcel was approved with a driveway that will serve both planned
structures, which will reduce space by providing joint parking and access
points for both buildings. He stated that the 5302-5304 parcels will be
constructed right away, but that the current house on 5298 Madison will be
rented until development plans can be finalized. Mr. Bertram advised council
that he would not be constructing this development so he was unsure of the
building design, but that he thought it would be colonial style or similar to
the design of the new buildings and would be in keeping with the current theme
he has begun in this section of the downtown area. He stated he would keep some
green space and that the signage and lighting will be similar. He stated the
concept plan distributed for the 5302-04 lot will provide office spaces on the
first floor. Mr. Bertram stated that KCPC only imposed one condition on the
zone change, which was to amend the Stage I development plan to meet the
minimum requirements of the city’s zoning ordinance.
Council Member Cobble asked if the city should consider holding a public
hearing as part of the due process. Mr. Deters advised that would not be
necessary if the consensus of council was to approve the recommendation made by
KCPC.
Mayor Moriconi commented that he appreciated the Victorian/Colonial theme being
continued and is contributing to the revitalization of the downtown area. He
advised council that an ordinance would be prepared to accept the
recommendation from the KCPC and submitted for a first reading at the March 7,
2005 meeting.
Discussion of Lease Proposal by Cingular Wireless to Install Cell Tower at
Sterling Staggs Park
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an offer from Cingular Wireless for a lease
agreement to rent an approximate 100x100 parcel in the Sterling Staggs Park to
erect a cell tower disguised as a flagpole. He stated the document before them
is not an actual contract. Mr. Deters advised it is basically a letter of
intent from Cingular. Mayor Moriconi stated Cingular is proposing a flagpole
similar to the photo enclosed in the packets. He stated the letter of intent
proposes a lease amount that ranges from $1,500 per month for the first five
years to $5,277 per month for the last five years over a fifty-year term. Mayor
Moriconi stated that Mr. Deters had dealt with this type of business contract
in the past for the flagpole cell tower that was erected on the property of
Scott High School.
Council Member Yeager asked what section of the Park Cingular wanted to lease.
Mr. Deters advised that hasn’t been determined yet. He stated that accepting
the letter of intent would allow Cingular to conduct a study to determine that.
Mayor Moriconi stated that when the study is complete and if the city is not in
agreement with their final proposal then we would have the option to reject
their final offer. Council Member Cobble stated she would want to know the base
dimensions of the flagpole and wanted to suggest some bargaining tools. Mr.
Deters advised the city should not expose it’s had in an open forum. He
suggested they inspect the flagpole that has been constructed on the property
of Scott High School.
Council Member Franzen stated that Cingular had expressed interest in and had
been negotiating with Independence Christian Church, of which she is a member.
And she stated she was not aware whether or not those negotiations had ceased.
She wondered if she should recuse herself from discussions on this issue.
Council Member Yeager commented that this offer is hard to turn down. Since the
consensus of the Council was to move forward with this offer, Mayor Moriconi
advised he would keep Council informed of the negotiations. Mr. Deters stated
he would prepare a Resolution for Council to approve at the March 7, 2005
meeting.
Discussion Regarding the Adoption of Rules of Order for the Council Meetings
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Rules of Order and Procedures for the
council meetings as submitted for consideration by Council Member Kelso. Mayor
Moriconi asked Mr. Deters if this should be adopted by Resolution or Ordinance.
Mr. Deters suggested Council Member Kelso explain his proposal.
Council Member Kelso advised that this document will dictate conduct of both
the council members and the public and that since there are sections that will
apply to the citizens it will be required to be adopted by ordinance. He stated
that if it was just dealing with parliamentary procedures to could be adopted
by municipal order. Mr. Deters suggested he explain the purpose of adopting
this document. Council Member Kelso stated that he would challenge anyone to
tell him this city’s rules of order, to conduct efficient, effective and kindly
meetings. He stated that he believes this document will assist with that
process in running smoother meetings.
Council Member Cobble stated that he hoped they would adopt a document that
would deal with ten or fifteen parliamentary procedures and not encompass
statutes. She stated that she believes you cannot have a document that
summarizes statutes. Council Member Cobble stated she has strong reservations
regarding Section 6.3, Violation of Rules of Order, especially with imposing
penalties. She stated the city has a sergeant-at-arms that could handle order,
as well as the mayor. She stated that she feels those measures are already in
place.
Mr. Bill Cobble interjected that since the city has two meetings per month that
both should be business (voting) meetings. He stated he feels it takes too long
to get some of the business accomplished.
Council Member Kelso stated that he strongly disagrees with Mayor Moriconi’s
assertion. He stated at times the meetings have been out of control with some
people acting inappropriately. He stated everyone needs to know the protocol of
the meetings. Council member Franzen stated that everyone should act like
adults. Council Member Kelso replied that doesn’t work.
Council Member Little stated, that at first glance the document appears a
little lengthy and he feels like 90-95% of the content of the document is
already being accomplished as mandated by statute. Mr. Deters stated the
statute was restated in simpler terms in this document. Council Member Little
commented that while he really doesn’t have an issue with the document, he
questions the need for this in an organized form. Council Member Cobble
commented that it is probably not necessary if it is redundant. Council Member
Franzen stated that some of the content she liked, but that some is redundant
and she feels the violation penalties is a bit stiff.
Council Member Kelso commented that as a newly elected official, he feels this
document would have been helpful.
Mr. Deters advised the council members to discuss their proposed changes with
Council Member Kelso, and then he will review the legalities of any changes.
Mayor Moriconi stated this would be presented at the March 7, 2005 council
meeting.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters provided Council with an update on the cluster mailbox issue with
the United States Post Office. He stated he has not received a response to his
February 9, 2005 letter he sent to the Post Office legal department.
Police Chief Report – Assistant Chief David Nichols
Asst. Chief Nichols commented that Chief Butler would graduate from the FBI
training on March 18, 2005. He also reported that the next class of the
Citizens Police Academy would begin on Wednesday, March 2, 2005. The class will
last for nine weeks and will be held at the Senior Center. He advised that the
Sunday Challenger newspaper ran a nice article on the Academy.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Report on Kenton County Road Issue
Mayor Moriconi thanked Council Member Little for the in-depth report he
compiled and presented to Council regarding the Kenton County road issue. He
stated this report required extensive research by Council Member Little,
wherein he has surmised that the seventeen miles of county roads that are
within the incorporated city limits should actually be reduced to only five
miles that the city should be responsible for maintaining. Mayor Moriconi
directed Mr. Deters to review the report and then draft a letter to the Kenton
County Fiscal Court advising them of the city’s findings and facts on this
issue.
America Supporting Americans – Adopt a Military Unit Program
Mayor Moriconi stated that Council Member Kelso has suggested the city adopt a
military unit, which is the focus of an organization known as America
Supporting Americans. Council Member Kelso stated he would like the city to
adopt the Walton Military Police unit who is currently serving in Iraq. He
stated that many of the unit’s members live in Independence and some of their
family members contacted him about this program. He stated he thinks this will
be a good program for the city to actively support. Mayor Moriconi suggested a
Resolution be presented at the March 7, 2005 meeting for Council’s approval.
Council Member Cobble stated this should meet with unanimous approval. She also
suggested announcement of this adoption of a military unit be in the next
newsletter to encourage a letter writing campaign.
Update on Proposed Cox Road Improvements
Mayor Moriconi reported that the original estimates for improvements to the
intersection of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road (SR 16) was considered to be
around $150,000. He stated the estimate has now been determined to be half that
amount, with $30,000 being funded by the developer of the Pembroke Subdivision,
which will have egress onto Cox Road. Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the
city has contacted Dick Murgatroyd of the state Transportation Cabinet
requesting assistance with the funding of this project. He stated that if the
state does not assist with the project, then the additional project of
extending the turn lane to the intersection of Taylor Mill Road would be
withdrawn.
Council Member Yeager stated she noticed cable being installed in that area.
Mayor Moriconi advised a utility pole would need to be moved on the south side,
so the cable lines may not be impacted.
Mayor Moriconi advised he would keep Council informed of any developments of
this issue as they become know.
Business of the Month
Mayor Moriconi stated that Council Member Cook would select the business of the
month to be recognized at the March meeting. Council Member Cook stated he has
chosen US Bank.
Miscellaneous
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mrs. Brown’s class at Beechgrove Elementary for all
their thank you cards they sent him.
Council Member cobble requested that future agendas be considerate of those who
have attorney’s present to represent them and permit those agenda issues to
take priority over issues being presented by city staff members and/or regular
orders of business. Mayor Moriconi concurred.
Council Member Cobble also thanked everyone that assisted with contesting the
proposed insurance premium tax that was being proposed by the Kenton County
Fiscal Court.
Adjournment
There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Kelso to adjourn. Motion was carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 9:10 pm.
                     _____________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 7, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky. met on Monday, March 7,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Doctor Will Lange Ford, Pastor of Hickory Grove Baptist
Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Presentation of Proclamation to the Simon Kenton High School Academic Team
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation to the Simon Kenton High School
Academic Team and their coaches. The Proclamation was in recognition of winning
first place in the KAAC Governor’s Cup Ninth Region competition on February 19,
2005. Mayor Moriconi proclaimed March 9, 2005 as “Simon Kenton Academic Team
Day.” Mayor Moriconi wished the team luck at the KAAC Governor’s Cup all-state
competition March 12-14, 2005.
Business of the Month Recognition
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Margaret Cook had chosen US Bank
as the recipient of the Business of the Month. He presented a plaque of
recognition to the bank’s Assistant Vice President, Sandra Woolum.
Approval of February 7, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February 7,
2005 regular council meeting. Council Member Cobble so moved with a second from
Council Member Kelso. Council Member Cobble noted amendments. There being no
objections to the amendments, roll was called and answered 6-0. Motion carried.
Approval of February 28, 2005 Caucus Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February 28,
2005 caucus meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council
Member Yeager. Council Member Cobble and Council Member Kelso noted amendments.
There being no objections to the amendments, roll call was answered 6-0. Motion
carried.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Juanita Simmons, 10805 Autumnridge Drive stated she is the treasurer of the
newly organized Chapter of the Moon Brothers of the American Legion Women’s
Auxiliary. She stated they would like permission to display a yellow sign in
honor of all the men and women serving our country today in our war zones, and
noted that the city’s Recreation Director, Nita Brake is working on compiling a
list of military personnel. She stated if there is anyone that has any friends
or family in ’’Iraq’ or ’’’’Afghanistan’’ to contact her or Nita Brake. She
stated she and the Mayor walked through the outer foyer and found an
appropriate location to display the sign in the lobby. She stated they would
also like to display the American Legion logo and a yellow ribbon listing the
names of the military personnel, units and the country to which they are
deployed.
Mayor Moriconi stated the city would welcome the displaying of the banner and
commented anything that can be done to help support our military. He also
stated he would like the banner displayed at the July 4th Parade if possible.
Ms. Simmons stated they would take that into consideration.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No. 2005-0-02-Approving Map Amendment-KCPC Application No. 1717-R-2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading an ordinance approving
a proposed map amendment for an approximate 88-acre area located on the east
side of Fowler Creek Road between Sycamore Creek Drive and Cox Road from R-1A
and R-1C to R-1D, under KCPC Application No.1717R. Mayor Moriconi directed City
Attorney Deters to read the ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion on the second reading of Ordinance No. 2005-
0-02. Council Member Kelso so moved, with second by Council Member Little. A
discussion ensued.
Council Member Yeager stated she would like to add that after speaking to the
City Attorney, she stated some wording regarding the Fowler Creek debt
reduction needs to be added to future ordinances regarding new subdivisions
that will tie into the Fowler Creek sewer system. City Attorney Deters stated
that he recalls from previous discussions that there are fifteen houses that
will tie directly into the new Fowler Creek line installed by the Sanitation
District and the remainder of the development would go into the city’s Fowler
Creek sewer system.
Mr. Don Stegman with Cardinal Engineering representing Centerline Development
stated he did not have any objections with the city adding this as a condition
of the development regarding the Fowler Creek sewer line. City Attorney Deters
stated he did not feel this additional language to the ordinance was
significant enough to require a new first reading because it was discussed at a
prior meeting and it could be added as an eighth condition to the ordinance
stating the “development will be a part of the Fowler Creek Debt Reduction area
which will require the residents to participate in the $280.00 yearly debt
reduction assessment”.
Council Member Cobble expressed concern that since the current ordinance
relating to cluster mailboxes has come under legal scrutiny that it might be
wise to add another condition on approving this development and include
language in this ordinance that would prohibit the cluster mailboxes in this
development. Council Member Kelso questioned the need to do this since there is
already an ordinance prohibiting gang mailboxes in single family developments.
Council Member Cobble also suggested in the form of a request of the developer,
with regard to proposed Resolution No. 2005-R-08 “Vision of Independence” that
has been listed on the agenda for this meeting, since it is her personal
vision, and in honor of a former Kenton County Extension agent, Mr. William
Straw who propagated the Aristocrat Pear Tree, that they plant a couple of the
trees in the common spaces of this development.
Council Member Franzen stated the Planning Commission recommended the city give
consideration to providing a street extension to Mr. & Mrs. Carr adjoining
property. She asked if that would also be a condition or is the developer going
to do that himself. Mr. Stegman stated the whole intersection would be
accommodated so the extension can be provided in the future.
There being no further discussion roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No 2003-R-05-Approving an Addendum to the Senior Center Rental
Agreement
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for consideration Resolution No. 2003-R-05
that would approve changes in the Senior Center Rental contract and asked City
Attorney Deters to read the resolution. , Council Member Yeager so moved, with
a second by Council Member Kelso. Council Member Cobble asked if the agreement
wording on page two, under the “Rental Charge” included the use of the patio.
Mayor Moriconi stated it did. She asked if the agreement should be amended to
add the patio for use. Mayor Moriconi stated that was not a major change. She
also asked if the “Security Deposit” section was not refundable if they did not
do any damage, and give the security deposit back. Mayor Moriconi stated that
was correct after the Center Director inspects the condition of the building to
make sure no damage was incurred. She stated that section is a little
misleading. Council Member Kelso stated the wording should say “shall be
refundable after determination by the center that no damage has been done”.
Council Member Cobble stated under “Refund of Rent” it states the security
deposit will not be refunded upon cancellation. She asked that it be clarified,
because the document needs to state, “the security deposit will not be refunded
immediately.”
Council Member Yeager stated it means what it says and that if you cancel an
event after holding it for many months, and all of a sudden you cancel, it
means other rentals have been lost. Council Member Cobble asked if someone
cancels before the seven days, would you then get your deposit back. Council
Member Cobble asked City Attorney Deters how he interprets the wording. City
Attorney Deters stated it should be clarified as rent, or security deposit.
City Attorney Deters stated he would change the wording to read, “security
deposits will not be refunded upon cancellation within the seven day period”.
Council Member Cobble asked the opinion of City Attorney Deters in regard to
the wording “any caterer must furnish a liability insurance policy of
$500,000.00 as outlined herein”. She asked if anyone else in a business should
have to furnish the same insurance. City Attorney Deters stated he thinks there
is a provision in the agreement that shows that as well and not just caterers.
Council Member Cobble stated also in sections #16 and #18 of the agreement are
duplicate paragraphs.
Council Member Franzen stated it was discussed at the last meeting, the use of
the facility may be denied if someone cancels or did not show up at all, they
received one verbal warning and the second time they are denied use of the
center. She asked if that could be added to the agreement or would it be
necessary. Mayor Moriconi stated that it could be added.
There being no further discussion roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
NEW BUSINESS
Resolution No. 2005-R-05-Adopting a Military Unit
Mayor Moriconi stated it has been brought to his attention and a request has
been made that the city adopt a military unit. He advised that Council Member
Kelso has suggested a particular military unit for the city to adopt. He asked
Council Member Kelso to address this issue. Council Member Kelso stated
residents Harold and Phyllis Pettit brought this issue to his attention and
thanked them for taking the time to bring it to the city’s attention and push
forward with this. He stated they are members of the Family Readiness Group for
the 940th Military Unit. He stated Goldie Lakes and Jenny Shalfeld were present
in the audience and noted Jenny is president of the Family Readiness Group and
Goldie is the vice-president. He stated Mr. John Stein is the field liaison for
“Kentucky for America Supporting America” which is the organization the city
will be collaborating with. He stated Mr. Stein is also a city councilman for
the City of Alexandria.
Mr. Stein stated they are a 501C organization that seeks to develop ties
between the community and the military that started in 1967. Mr. Stein gave a
brief narrative of ASA history and purpose of their program and stated its
history can be read on their website at www.asa-usa.org. He stated there is
several different ways to engage your community and by acting as a conduit of
information the city can get churches involved and organizations such as the
American Legion. He stated the city newsletter is a good vehicle to communicate
information to the citizens. He stated other ways of getting the community
involved are letters from school children, care packages, surplus law
enforcement equipment and school supplies can also be shipped. He stated there
are ten other Northern Kentucky cities that have adopted a military unit. He
stated if there is information that you would like to share on the ASA website
there is an agreement form that needs to be completed and also donation
agreement forms along with more information could be obtained on the website.
Mayor Moriconi stated this information will go on the city’s website and also
in our next newsletter. He stated everyone is excited to support this mission.
Council Member Cobble stated the Resolution was lacking a zip code for the
Walton military unit, and it needs to be included since the post office will
not deliver without a zip code.
Mr. Stein stated the commander from the Kentucky National Guard which is the
940th Military Police Unit out of Walton, Ky. has contacted ASA and asked them
attempt to find cities willing to adopt all their units within the National
Guard. Mayor Moriconi stated he would like to have the 940th MP Company in the
July 4th parade, which will be on Saturday, July 2nd. Mr. Stein stated the unit
might still be deployed in July. Mayor Moriconi stated any members that could
represent them would be great. Council Member Yeager stated she would like to
thank them for all the past years they have helped the city and now appreciated
the opportunity to help them.
Mayor Moriconi read Resolution 2005-R-05. Council Member Kelso moved to adopt
Resolution 2005-R-05 as read, with a second by Council Member Cobble. Roll call
was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Council Member Kelso stated he would again like to thank Harold and Phyllis
Pettit for bringing this to the city’s attention and making sure this happened.
Proposed Ordinance-Approving Map Amendment –KCPC Application No. 1722R-1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would approve a map amendment (KCPC Application No. 1722R) for property
located at 5298 & 5302 Madison Pike and asked directed City Attorney Deters to
read the ordinance.
With no discussion, Mayor Moriconi stated the second reading of this ordinance
would be presented at the April 4th business meeting for a vote and adoption.
Resolution No. 2005-R-06 – Regarding a Cingular ––Wireless– ––Tower– at
––––Sterling– ––Staggs– ––Park––
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for consideration Resolution No. 2005-R-06
that would authorize Cingular Wireless to investigate the possibility of
locating a flagpole type cell tower at the Sterling Staggs Park on Madison
Pike. Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read the resolution.
Council Member Cobble moved to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-06, with second by
Council Member Little.
Council Member Yeager asked where the tower would be placed at the park. City
Attorney Deters stated that would be determined later and is part of allowing
them to investigate the possibility as to whether or not the site is suitable
for a cell tower. He stated if the site is determined to be suitable, then
Cingular would propose a long-term agreement outlining all the details. Mayor
Moriconi advised council of a cell tower disguised in a flagpole, which is
located behind Willis Music on Mall Road if anyone would like to look at one.
Council Member Kelso asked if the city has looked into an estimate of a lease
payment and would this be an average payment. City Attorney Deters stated the
amount is fairly close to another cell tower agreement he is familiar with, but
advised Council that lease payments, tower location, etc. will be negotiable
after the site location is evaluated by Cingular. Mayor Moriconi stated the
city should hear from Cingular within 90 days of their research. Council Member
Cobble stated she did visit the site at Scott High School and was impressed
with the flagpole type tower. She did say that she and Council Member Yeager
are concerned with the 100x100 parcel dimensions that Cingular is proposing.
Council Member Cobble asked City Attorney Deters to obtain the base dimensions
of the tower from Cingular.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi requested the Clerk to call
the roll. Roll was called and was answered unanimously. The motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-07- Supporting the Sponsorship of Zoning Text Application
Relating to Auto Laundries in the NSC Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a resolution supporting a text amendment to
the zoning ordinance to add automobile laundry as a conditional use in the NSC
(neighborhood shopping center) zone. He directed Mr. Deters to read Resolution
No. 2005-R-07. Mayor Moriconi stated this resolution was just to move the
process along so it can go to the Kenton County Planning Commission for a
public hearing and recommendation that will be presented to the city council
for final consideration. Council Member Yeager asked for clarification that if
this Council does not approve the resolution, then it would not proceed to the
Planning Commission. City Attorney Deters stated if the resolution does not
pass, then the city would not apply for this text amendment on behalf of Radius
Construction.
Council Member Kelso asked if the resolution is just to seek comments and a
recommendation from the Planning Commission then why the city council wouldn’t
do that on behalf of Radius. Mayor Moriconi stated a resolution supports
sending it to the Planning Commission. Mr. Deters stated if the Resolution is
not approved to support making the application then the issue will be rejected
and the city will do nothing.
Council Member Kelso made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-07. The
motion died for lack of a second.
Council Member Franzen stated she had received phone calls regarding rumors of
a parking lot going in behind Mr. Neltner’s building in the Cherokee Shopping
Center. She asked if Mr. Neltner had to have the Planning Commission’s approval
for that or can it be put in regardless. Mayor Moriconi asked if there was
anyone in attendance representing Mr. Neltner.
Mr. Matt Toebbler from Radius Construction Company stated they are partially
representing Mr. Neltner in this matter. He stated Mr. Neltner is trying to
expand his business and build up the property that he owns in the shopping
center. He stated Mr. Neltner could still build, whether it is the parking lot
or something else because the parcel behind the shopping is already zoned for a
parking lot. He stated the current zoning would also permit a restaurant on
that parcel. He stated Mr. Neltner’s first interest is to add a car wash where
the current parking is located in front and all they are requesting of council
is to support this resolution to sponsor the text amendment application so they
can get the Planning Commission’s recommendation.
The discussion ended as the majority of the City Council did not favor
sponsoring this proposed text amendment by Radius Construction on behalf of
property owner Martin Neltner.
Resolution No. 2005-R-08-Adopting a City Vision and Planning proposed by
Council Member Kelso
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-08 adopting a “City
Vision and Planning” as proposed by Council Member Kelso.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-08, with second by
Council Member Kelso. Roll call was answered unanimously and the motion carried
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance Adopting Rules of Order for Council Meetings - 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance adopting rules of
order for council meetings. Mayor Moriconi stated before the ordinance is read
he would like to add some changes. City Attorney Deters stated he has received
some suggested changes from Council Members Cobble and Franzen. Mr. Deters
recommended this ordinance be added to the agenda in April so he can discuss
these changes with the council members. Council Member Kelso recommended a
first reading at this meeting. Mayor Moriconi stated if a first reading is done
at this meeting, there might be substantial changes to the ordinance at the
next meeting that would require a new first reading. Council Member Kelso
stated the changes could be addressed at the second reading. City Attorney
Deters stated the changes that were discussed were not substantial enough to
stop a first reading.
Council Member Cobble commented she feels there are substantial changes that
have been recommended by herself and Council Member Franzen. Council Member
Yeager stated she feels some of the changes are pretty substantial with regard
to state statute and city ordinances. Council Member Kelso stated there are
suggested changes which is the only thing that could be substantial but other
things are just questions. Council Member Kelso stated he has read what Council
Members Cobble and Franzen have suggested, and he has no objections with the
majority of the recommended changes.
Council Member Cobble stated the substantial changes she is concerned with are
the criminal penalties. She stated she has a very big problem with putting
criminal penalties in the rules of order. She stated under “Violations of
Rules”, we are using that mandatory language that says, “shall” instead of the
permissive language, which is “may”. She quoted from the K.R.S. 83A.0656(2)
“authorize a city to punish those who violate city ordinances and failure to
abide by the terms and conditions set forth in these Rules of Order “shall”,
again that word should be “may” constitute either a “Misdemeanor or a
Violation.” She asked who would define the “failure to abide by the terms and
conditions.” She questioned if someone exceeded the time limit for addressing
council by more than five minutes, are they failing to abide. She also asked
who would inform the people addressing the council of the rules. She asked the
Mayor if he is going to advise anyone that comes to speak, of the rules that
only permit someone to speak five minutes or less. Mayor Moriconi stated under
the agenda’s Privileges of the Floor, if there are more than five people signed
up to address the council, he will ask that they keep their comments to three
minutes or less.
Mr. Deters stated the purpose of adopting this as an ordinance, puts the city
on notice that these rules are a newly enacted legislation that they are to
take notice of. He stated he was sure Council Member Kelso planned on having
copies of the rules available to anyone to obtain. He stated the process of
doing the ordinance in passing the law basically puts the community on notice.
Council Member Franzen stated she thinks the spirit of the rules of order was
to place some sort of punishment for those who are unruly. Council Member
Cobble stated we already have an ordinance regarding disorderly conduct.
Council Member Franzen stated she did not think it was a bad idea to have fines
for someone who is blatant. Council Member Cobble stated to get a fine, it has
to go through the District Court and that the city would not receive any monies
from that fine. Council Member Franzen stated she would look at it as teaching
someone a lesson. Council Member Cobble asked what crime she deems necessary to
occur to fine someone a $100.00 penalty. Council Member Franzen stated if
someone screams or slanders someone in the council chambers during the meeting.
Again, Council Member Franzen stated the city already has an ordinance
regarding disorderly conduct. Council Member Little stated if someone is close
to breaking the rules; it would be brought to their attention.
Council Member Yeager asked Mr. Deters if these changes discussed would be
considered substantial. Council Member Franzen asked if they needed a vote to
remain or delete text from the proposed rules. City Attorney Deters stated you
either adopt the Ordinance or you don’t, adopt as amended, or you don’t. Mayor
Moriconi stated Council Member Kelso has worked on these rules for a month and
is sure Council Member Kelso would like to have a first reading to proceed with
getting this adopted.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to have a first reading, seconded by
Council Member Little. Council Member Yeager asked if there will be more
discussion prior to the next vote. Council Member Kelso stated he did not have
a problem with striking section 6.3 completely because whether this council
wants it or not, KRS gives the authority to implement these rules. He stated it
gives the city the authority to implement and that authority still resides
within the Mayor and Council but it can be deleted. Mayor Moriconi concurred
with council that it was permissible to remove section 6.3 of the Rules of
Order.
Roll call was answered unanimously and motion carried 6-0. Mayor Moriconi asked
City Attorney Deters to read the proposed Rules of Order ordinance.
Discussion Regarding a Proposed Ordinance to Approve a Text Amendment to Add
Indoor Shooting Range as a Permitted Use in the R-C2 Zone
Mayor Moriconi stated this ordinance is not on the agenda, as the information
was not received from the Kenton County Planning Commission prior to
distribution of the council packets. He stated the property owner, Mr. Bill
Dehlinger, who requested the city sponsor this text amendment is present and
has requested the city have a first reading of a proposed ordinance to act on
the KCPC recommendation that was decided at their meeting last Thursday. Mr.
Deters explained a Resolution was approved to get the Planning Commission to
comment on amending the city zoning ordinance to add language that would permit
an indoor shooting range as a permitted use in the R-C2 zone. He stated the
KCPC has recommended approval of a text amendment for an indoor shooting range
be allowed in the R-C2 zone as a conditional use; not as a permitted use the
city applied for. Mr. Deters explained that a conditional use would require the
property owner to get approval from the city’s Board of Adjustment who could
add some conditional parameters on the request. He distributed an ordinance he
prepared according to the Planning Commission’s recommendation, which changes
the text and makes the indoor shooting range a conditional use and not a
permitted use. He stated council needs to vote on whether they want this
shooting range to be a permitted use or a conditional use.
Council Member Kelso moved for a first reading of the proposed ordinance to
approve the zoning text amendment as recommended by the KCPC. Council Member
Franzen seconded the motion.
Mr. Bill Dehlinger stated they did request a permitted use. He stated currently
the only zone that an indoor shooting range would be allowed is the RC-2 zone
and it is only at the Richardson Road site. He stated the mere fact the city
has that zoning, gives the city that measure of control where it would be at
another location if someone else applied for another shooting range. He stated
at the KCPC meeting it was discussed as to whether we need to do that and the
county attorney deemed it conservative in making it a conditional use.
Mayor Moriconi asked if that was the only RC-2 zone in the city and that in and
of itself restricts it because there are no other RC-2 zones in the city. Mr.
Deters advised that as a conditional use this would give the Board of
Adjustments the authority to impose additional conditions on indoor shooting
ranges. Council Member Franzen asked if the Board of Adjustments could stop the
shooting range itself. Mr. Deters stated they could choose to attach so many
conditions to the conditional use that it might deter someone from doing it.
Council Member Yeager stated the city could choose to disregard the KCPC
recommendation to add this text as a conditional use and opt to add the text as
a permitted use. Council Member Cobble asked if the Council needs to be
concerned, as this is just a text amendment, of any adjudicated process being
violated. City Attorney Deters stated they did not.
Mayor Moriconi asked if, as a conditional use, how that affects the process and
getting the information back to the city. City Attorney Deters stated the
property owner would have to submit an application for a hearing before the
city’s Board of Adjustments. Council Franzen stated she is okay with a
permitted use if this is the only R-C2 zone in the city. Mr. Deters stated
there is already a motion and second on the floor to approve this text
amendment as a conditional use. Council Member Kelso withdrew his motion to
approve the KCPC recommendation to add this text as a conditional use. Council
Member Franzen followed by withdrawing her second.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to change the text of the proposed
ordinance to make this zoning text amendment to allow an indoor shooting range
as a permitted use in the R-C2 zone. Council Member Yeager seconded the motion.
Mr. Deters stated the wording of the proposed ordinance would have to be
changed from a conditional use to a permitted use. Roll was called and answered
with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Cobble stated since the ordinance was given to the Council
Members prior to this meeting and was not able to read the ordinance until
tonight and while she gives great weight to the Planning Commission’s opinion
and recommendations she stated in the future she would prefer to have more time
to review the KCPC recommendation prior to voting on an issue. She stated when
council is given something at a business meeting and expected to vote on it at
that meeting, she feels it should be part of the rules that council will not
vote unless it is deemed an emergency.
Police Chief Report - Dave Nichols, Assistant Chief
Mayor Moriconi asked Assistant Police Chief Nichols if he had anything to
report. Mr. Nichols stated the Citizens Police Academy has begun classes again.
He also thanked the VIPS (Volunteers in Policing) volunteers who are citizens
willing to volunteer their time to the police department to do various clerical
tasks when they need the assistance. He stated it has been a major benefit to
the department.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Update on the Cluster Mailbox Issue
Mr. Deters stated he has been given the name of a U. S. Postal representative
to contact to discuss the cluster mail box issue and he is in the process of
scheduling a meeting with this representative and the developer of the Clover
Ridge Subdivision to discuss a resolution to cluster mail box violation in that
development.
Discussion Regarding the Discontinuation of the Sewer Maintenance Fee
Council Member Cobble stated she is prepared to make a motion to have Mr.
Deters prepare an ordinance to consider terminating the sewer surcharge that
was initiated to pay the GRW debt. She asked if that could be done by ordinance
or municipal order. City Attorney Deters stated it should be an ordinance. She
then requested he prepare an ordinance to terminate the sewer surcharge for
consideration at the caucus meeting. Mr. Deters asked if that was to include
the Fowler Creek charge. Council Member Cobble stated everyone pays the
surcharge and that is added to all city residents billing to pay the GRW debt,
which now has an excess of $846,000.00. She stated the properties connected to
the Fowler Creek sewers would then just be paying the debt reduction. Council
Member Franzen stated the Fowler Creek charge is added to the property tax
bills, and not on the sewer bill. Mr. Deters asked if council was aware the
maintenance surcharge was added in 1978 and the GRW debt was not in existence
at that time. Council Member Little stated it was for maintenance of the sewer
system and since the city no longer provides maintenance for the sewer system
it is not needed. Mr. Deters stated the Fowler Creek ordinance allows the city
to use that surcharge also for the payment of the Fowler Creek bond debt. He
stated if the surcharge was kept in place it would help reduce the debt
reduction. Council Member Yeager stated she would like to transfer the monies
from the general sewer fund to the Fowler Creek fund until such time it can be
paid down. She stated there needs to be a history maintained of this project
and a forecast to assist future elected officials. Council Member Kelso stated
he would like this discussed more at the caucus meeting. He stated if a surplus
exists he would like to review that situation in more detail.
Discussion Regarding the Discontinuation of a Caucus Meeting in order to have
two Business Meetings
Council Member Cobble suggested the city Council hold two business meetings
each month and eradicate the caucus meeting format. She requested that Mr.
Deters prepare an amended ordinance regarding the city meetings so this can be
put to a vote.
Adjournment
There being no further business to discuss, Council Member Kelso moved to
adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:36pm.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 7, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Ky. met on Monday, March 7, 2005
at 7:00 p.m. IN the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge
of Allegiance. Doctor Will Lange Ford, Pastor of Hickory Grove Baptist Church
gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Proclamation
Mayor Moriconi presented and read a Proclamation from the city presented to
Simon Kenton High School for placing 1st in the Governors Cup.
SEE YOUR NOTES. DID NOT START TAPE UNTIL CORRECTIONS WERE BEING MADE ON THE
CAUCUS MEETING MINUTES.
NOTHING ON SANDY WOOLUM ACCEPTING PLAQUE
Approval of February 7, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February 7,
2005 regular council meeting. Council Member Cobble so moved with a second from
Council Member Kelso. Council Member Cobble noted amendments. There being no
objections to the amendments, roll was called and answered 6-0. Motion carried.
Approval of February 28, 2005 Caucus Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February 28,
2005 caucus meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council
Member Yeager. Council Member Cobble and Council Member Kelso noted amendments.
There being no objections to the amendments, roll call was answered 6-0. Motion
carried.
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Juanita Simmons, 10805 Autumnridge stated she is the treasurer of the newly
organized Chapter of the Moon Brothers of the American Legion Women’s
Auxiliary. She stated they would like permission to display a yellow sign in
honor of all the men and women serving our country today in our war zones, and
noted that Nita Brake is working on compiling a list of names. She stated if
there is anyone that has any friends or family in Iraq or Afghanistan to
contact Nita Brake or herself, phone number 356-6889. She stated she and the
Mayor walked thru the outer foyer and found a spot for the sign to be
displayed. She stated they would also like to have a yellow ribbon with the
names, units and areas they are serving in and also asked to display the
American Legion logo to give some recognition to them.
Mayor Moriconi stated the city would welcome the displaying of the banner and
commented anything that can be done to help support our military. He also
stated he would like the banner displayed at the July 4th Parade if possible.
Ms. Simmons stated they would take that into consideration.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No. 2005-0-02-Approving Map Amendment-KCPC Application No. 1717-R-2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading a proposed map
amendment with certain conditions, under Application No.1717–R Fowler Ridge and
asked City Attorney Deters to read the ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion on the second reading of Ordinance No. 2005-
0-02. Council Member Kelso so moved, with second by Council Member Little.
Council Member Yeager stated she would like to add that after speaking to the
City Attorney, she stated some wording regarding the fowler creek debt
reduction needs to be added to future ordinances regarding new subdivisions
that will tie into the fowler creek Sewers. City Attorney, Deters stated if he
recalls correctly, there are fifteen houses that will tie directly into the new
fowler creek line installed by the Sanitation District and the remainder of the
development would go into the city’s fowler creek sewer system.
Mr. Don Stegman with Cardinal Engineering representing Centerline Development
stated he did not have any objections with the city adding in conditions
regarding the fowler creek sewer line.
City Attorney Deters stated the additional wording was not significant enough
to require a new first reading because it was discussed at a prior meeting and
it could be added as an eighth condition to the ordinance stating the
“development will be a part of the Fowler Creek Debt Reduction area and the
residents will participate in the $280.00 yearly debt reduction assessment”.
Council Member Cobble stated the current zoning ordinance that does not allow
“gang mailboxes” felt it also needed to be part of this ordinance.
Council Member Yeager asked if the “gang mailboxes” should be also be listed as
a condition.
Council Member Kelso stated there is already an ordinance regarding gang
mailboxes.
Council Member Cobble stated she would like to request of the Mayor and
developer regarding the “Vision of Independence” that has been listed on the
agenda and her vision, in honor of a county agent, Mr. Straw that propagated
the Aristocrat Pear Tree, that they plant a couple of the trees in the common
spaces of the development.
Council Member Franzen sated the planning commission recommended the city give
consideration to providing a street extension to Mr. & Mrs. Carr. She asked if
that would also be a condition or is the developer going to do that himself.
Mr. Stegman stated the whole intersection will be accommodated so the extension
can happen.
Council Member Yeager stated she is finally glad that Mr. Exeler is going to
get water.
Roll call was answered unanimously and motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No 2003-R-05-Approving an Addendum to the Senior Center Rental
Agreement
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a second reading of Resolution No. 2003-R-
05 to approve changes in the Senior Center Rental Contract and asked City
Attorney Deters to read the resolution. There being no discussion, Council
Member Yeager so moved, with a second by Council Member Kelso.
Council Member Cobble asked if the agreement wording on page two, under the
“Rental Charge” included the use of the patio. Mayor Moriconi stated it did.
She asked if the agreement should be amended to add the patio for use. Mayor
Moriconi stated that was not a major change. She also asked if the “Security
Deposit” section was not refundable if they did not do any damage, and give the
security deposit back. Mayor Moriconi stated that was correct after the
director does an inspection to make sure no damage was done. She stated that
section is a little misleading. Council Member Kelso stated the wording should
say “shall be refundable after determination by the center that no damage has
been done”. Council Member Cobble stated under “Refund of Rent” it states the
security deposit will not be refunded upon cancellation. She asked that be
clarified and maybe she was trying to say “the security deposit will not be
refunded immediately.”
Council Member Yeager stated it means what it says. If you cancel an event
after holding it for many months, and all of a sudden you cancel, it means
other rentals have been lost. Council Member Cobble asked if someone cancels
before the seven days, will you then get your deposit back. Council Member
Cobble asked City Attorney Deters how he interprets the wording. City Attorney
Deters stated it should be clarified as rent, or security deposit. City
Attorney Deters stated he would change the wording to read “security deposits
will not be refunded upon cancellation within the seven day period”. Council
Member Cobble asked the opinion of City Attorney Deters in regard to the
wording “any caterer must furnish a liability insurance policy of $500,000.00
as outlined herein”. She asked if anyone else in a business should have to
furnish the same insurance. City Attorney Deters stated he thinks there is a
provision in the agreement that shows that as well and not just caterers.
Council Member Cobble stated also in sections #16 and #18 of the agreement are
duplicate paragraphs.
Council Member Franzen stated it was discussed at the last meeting, the use of
the facility may be denied if someone cancels or did not show up at all, they
received one verbal warning and the second time they are denied use of the
center. She asked if that could be added to the agreement or would it be
necessary. Mayor Moriconi stated that it could be added.
Roll call was answered unanimously and motion carried 6-0.
NEW BUSINESS
Resolution No. 2005-R-05-Adopting a Military Unit
Mayor Moriconi stated it has been brought to his attention regarding the city
adopting a military unit and Council Member Kelso had mentioned that he has a
specific military unit in mind. Council Member Kelso stated Harold and Phyllis
Pettit brought this issue to his attention and thanked them for taking the time
to bring it to the city’s attention and push forward with this. He stated they
are members of the Family Readiness Group for the 940th Military Unit. He
stated Goldie Lakes and Jenny Shawfield were present in the audience and noted
Jenny is president of the Family Readiness Group and Goldie is the vice-
president. He stated Mr. John Stein is the field liaison for “Kentucky for
America Supporting America” which is the organization we will be getting
involved with. He stated Mr. Stein is also a city councilman in Alexandria.
Mr. Stein stated they are a 501C organization that seeks to develop ties
between the community and the military that started in 1967. Mr. Stein gave a
brief narrative of ASA history and purpose of their program and stated its
history can be read on their website at www.asa-usa.org. He stated there are
several different ways to engage your community and by acting as a conduit of
information the city can get organizations such as American Legions and
churches involved. You can also use your newsletters for information. He stated
other ways of getting the community involved are letters from school children,
care packages, surplus law enforcement equipment and school supplies can also
be shipped. He stated there are ten other Northern Kentucky cities involved
with other units. He stated if there is information that you would like to
share on the ASA website there is an agreement form that needs to be filled out
and also donation agreement forms along with more information could be obtained
on the website. Mayor Moriconi stated this information will go on the city’s
website and also in our next newsletter. He stated everyone is excited to be on
board.
Council Member Cobble stated the Resolution was lacking a zip code for the
military unit out of Walton.
Mr. Stein stated the commander from the Kentucky National Guard which is the
940th Military Police Unit out of Walton, Ky. has contacted ASA and asked them
to try and find cities to adopt all their units within the National Guard.
Mayor Moriconi stated he would like to have the 940th MP Company in the July
4th parade which will be on Saturday, July 2nd. Mr. Stein stated they may still
be deployed. Mayor Moriconi stated any members that could represent them would
be great. Council Member Yeager stated she would like to thank them for all the
past years they have helped the city and now it is our turn to help them.
Mayor Moriconi read Resolution 2005-R-05. Council Member Kelso so moved with a
second by Council Member Cobble. Roll call was answered unanimously and the
motion carried 6-0.
Council Member Kelso stated he would again like to thank Harold and Phyllis
Pettit for bringing this to the city’s attention and making sure this happened.
Proposed Ordinance-Approving Map Amendment –KCPC Application No. 1722R-1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a first reading of a proposed ordinance
approving a map amendment at 5298 & 5302 Madison Pike and asked City Attorney
Deters to read.
With no discussion, Mayor Moriconi stated this will again come up at the April
4th business meeting for a vote.
Resolution No. 2005-R-06-Cingular Wireless Tower at Sterling Staggs Park
Mayor Moriconi asked City Attorney Deters to read the resolution.
Council Member Cobble so moved with second by Council Member Little.
Council Member Yeager asked where the tower would be placed at the park. City
Attorney Deters stated that comes later. This resolution allows them to
investigate the possibility as to whether or not the site is suitable. He
stated an agreement would come later. Mayor Moriconi advised council of a tower
located behind Willis Music on Mall Road if anyone would like to look at one.
Council Member Kelso asked if the city has looked into an estimate of a lease
payment and would this be an average payment. City Attorney Deters stated the
amount is fairly close to the tower he is familiar with but all that will be
negotiable at a later date. Mayor Moriconi stated the city should hear from
them within 90 days of their research. Council Member Cobble stated she did
visit the site at Scott High School and was impressed. She did say that she and
Council Member Yeager are concerned with the 100x100 measurement.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a roll call vote. The motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-07-Supporting the Sponsorship of Zoning Text Application-
Auto Laundries
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a resolution supporting automobile
laundries and asked City Attorney Deters to read. Mayor Moriconi stated this
resolution was just to move the process along so it can go to the planning
commission for a hearing before it comes back before council. Council Member
Yeager asked if the resolution does not get approved, will it not go before the
planning commission. City Attorney Deters stated if the resolution does not
pass, there will not be an application.
Council Member Kelso asked if all the resolution does is seek comments from
area planning, why would not council do that. Mayor Moriconi stated a
resolution supports sending it to the planning commission. City Attorney Deters
stated it does not then require you to do anything.
Council Member Kelso so moved to send the resolution to the planning
commission. The motion died for a lack of a second and therefore there will not
be an application.
Council Member Franzen stated she had received phone calls regarding the
parking lot going in behind Mr. Neltner’s building. She asked if they have to
have the planning commissions approval for that or can it be put in regardles
Mayor Moriconi asked if there was anyone in attendance representing Mr.
Neltner.
Mr. Matt Toebler from Radius Construction Company stated they are partially
representing Mr. Neltner in this matter. He stated Mr. Neltner is trying to
expand his business and build up property that he owns. He stated Mr. Neltner
can still build, whether it is the parking lot or something else because it is
zoned for that in the back of the building. He stated he could also add a
restaurant due to the zoning. He stated Mr. Neltner’s first interest in
investing into his property was to add a car wash and we are asking council to
let that resolution go to area planning and get their feedback whether it is
positive or negative.
Resolution No. 2005-R-08-Adopting a City Vision and Planning proposed by
Council Member Kelso
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-08 adopting a “City
Vision and Planning” proposed by Council Member Kelso.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member Kelso. Roll call
was answered unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance-Adopting Rules of Order for Council Meetings-1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance adopting rules of
order for council meetings. Mayor Moriconi stated before the ordinance is read
he would like to add some changes. City Attorney Deters stated he has received
some suggested changes from Council Members Cobble and Franzen. City Attorney
Deters recommended this ordinance be added to the agenda in April so he can
discuss these changes with the council members. Council Member Kelso suggested
a first reading. Mayor Moriconi stated there might be substantial changes to
the ordinance. Council Member Kelso stated the changes could be addressed at
the second reading. City Attorney Deters stated the changes that were discussed
were not substantial enough to stop a first reading.
Council Member Cobble noted there being substantial changes between herself and
Council Member Franzen. Council Member Yeager stated she feels some of the
changes are pretty substantial regarding KRS and Ordinances. Council Member
Kelso stated there are suggested changes which is the only thing that could be
substantial but other things are just questions. Council Member Kelso stated he
has read what Council Members Cobble and Franzen did, and is fine with the
majority of the changes.
Council Member Cobble stated the substantial changes she is concerned with are
the criminal penalties. She stated she has a very big problem with putting
criminal penalties in the rules of order. She stated under “Violations of
Rules”, we are using that mandatory language that says “shall” instead of the
permissive language which is “may”. She quoted from the K.R.S. 83A.0656(2)
“authorize a city to punish those who violate city ordinances and failure to
abide by the terms and conditions set forth in these Rules of Order “shall”,
again that word should by “may” constitute either a “Misdemeanor or a
Violation” . She asked who is going to define a failure to abide by the terms
and conditions. She asked if someone goes over the time limit of speaking more
than five minutes, are they failing to abide. She also asked who will tell
someone that is going to speak, what the rules are. She asked the Mayor if he
is going to advise anyone that comes to speak, there a rule that only allows
someone to speak five minutes or less.
Mayor Moriconi stated under Privileges of the Floor, if there are more than
five people signed up to address them, he will ask that they keep their
comments to three minutes or less.
City Attorney Deters stated the purpose of adopting this as an ordinance, puts
the city on notice that these rules are a newly enacted legislation that they
are to take notice of. He stated he was sure Council Member Kelso planned on
having copies of the rules available to anyone to obtain. He stated the process
of doing the ordinance in passing the law puts the community on notice.
Council Member Franzen stated she thinks the spirit of the rules was to place
some sort of punishment for those who are unruly. Council Member Cobble stated
we already have an ordinance regarding disorderly conduct. Council Member
Franzen stated she did not think it was a bad idea to have fines for someone
who is blatant. Council Member Cobble stated to get a fine, it has to go thru
the District Court which the city would not receive any monies from that fine.
Council Member Franzen stated she would look at it as teaching someone a
lesson. Council Member Cobble asked what crime she deems necessary to occur to
fine someone a $100.00 penalty. Council Member Franzen stated if someone
screamed at someone or calls someone a name. Council Member Little stated if
someone is close to breaking the rules; it would be brought to their attention.
Council Member Yeager asked City Attorney Deters is this issue is substantial.
Council Member Franzen asked if they needed a vote to remain or delete from the
rules. City Attorney Deters stated you either adopt the Ordinance or you don’t,
adopt as amended, or you don’t. Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Kelso has
worked on these rules for a month and is sure Council Member Kelso would like
to have a first reading. Council Member Yeager made a motion to have a first
reading, seconded by Council Member Little but asked if there will be more
discussion prior to the next vote. Council Member Kelso stated he did not have
a problem with striking section 6.3 completely because whether this council
wants it or not, KRS gives the authority to implement these rules. He stated it
gives the city the authority to implement and that authority still resides
within the Mayor and Council but it can be deleted. Mayor Moriconi concurred
with council that it was permissible to remove section 6.3 of the Rules of
Order.  
Roll call was answered unanimously and motion carried 6-0. Mayor Moriconi asked
City Attorney Deters to read the Ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance-Indoor Shooting Range-NOT ON AGENDA
Mayor Moriconi stated this ordinance is not on the agenda but he has been
approached by the owner regarding the indoor shooting range.
City Attorney Deters explained a resolution was approved to get the planning
commission to comment on the indoor shooting range as a permitted use, and the
recommendation that come back, and they agreed to a conditional use so they
could go before the Board of Adjustments to see if they want to add some
conditional parameters on the request. He stated he has prepared an ordinance
according to the planning commission’s recommendation which changes the text
and makes the indoor shooting range a conditional use and not a permitted use.
He stated council needs to vote on whether they want this shooting range to be
a permitted use or a conditional use, involving an indoor shooting range.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-0 for a first reading,
seconded by Council Member Franzen.
Mr. Bill Dehlinger stated they did apply for a permitted use at the planning
commission. He stated currently the only zoning that would be allowed is the
RC-2 zone and it is only at the Richardson Road site. He stated by the mere
fact the city has that zoning, you have that measure of control where it would
be at another location if someone else applied for another shooting range. He
stated at the planning commission meeting it was discussed as to whether we
need to do that and the county attorney deemed it conservative in making it a
conditional use.
Mayor Moriconi asked if that was the only RC-2 zone that we have and that in
and of itself restricts it because there are no other RC-2 zone in the city.
City Attorney Deters stated the Board of Adjustments could impose additional
conditions on indoor shooting ranges.
Council Member Franzen asked if the Board of Adjustments could stop the
shooting range itself. City Attorney Deters stated they could choose to attach
so many conditions to the conditional use that it could deter someone from
doing it.
Council Member Yeager stated it could be changed to a permitted use.
Council Member Cobble asked if the city needs to be concerned, since this is a
text amendment, of any adjudicated process being violated. City Attorney Deters
stated they did not.
Mayor Moriconi asked now that it will go before the Board of Adjustments, what
does that do in terms of the process and getting the information back to the
city. City Attorney Deters stated they will have to submit an application to
the Board of Adjustments and have a hearing.
Council Franzen stated she is okay with a permitted use if this is the only
zone in the city that can be done.
City Attorney Deters stated there is already a first and second on the floor
for a conditional use.
Council Ken Kelso withdrew his motion for a conditional use. Council Member
Franzen made a motion to read the proposed ordinance and make it a permitted
use, seconded by Council Member Yeager. City Council Deters stated the wording
of the proposed ordinance would have to be changed from a conditional use to a
permitted use. Roll call answered. Motion carried 6-0. City Attorney Deters
read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Cobble stated she was not able to read the ordinance until
tonight and gives great weight to No. Ky. Area Planning Commissions opinion
even though she did vote for the ordinance, she would prefer to look over the
recommendation of the planning commission. She sated when council is presented
at a voting meeting something that night, it should be part of the rules that
council will not vote unless it is an emergency.
Police Chief Report-Assistant Police Chief Dave Nichols
Mayor Moriconi asked Assistant Police Chief Nichols if he had anything to
report. Mr. Nichols stated the Citizens Police Academy has begun classes again.
He also stated the program, Volunteers in Policing, which means citizens are
willing to volunteer their time to the police department to do various jobs
such as filing, and helping in the secretarial services when they need it. He
thanked them and stated it has been a major benefit to the police department.
City Attorney Report
City Attorney Deters stated he has been given a name of a representative to
contact in regard to the mail box issue and he is in the process of scheduling
a meeting with them and the developer to discuss.
Council Member Cobble stated she is prepared to make a motion to have City
Attorney Deters prepare an ordinance to consider terminating the sewer
surcharge that was initiated to pay the GRW debt. She asked if that could be
done by ordinance, or should it be a municipal order. City Attorney Deters
stated it should be an ordinance. She then asked that this be brought up at the
caucus meeting and prepare an ordinance to terminate the sewer surcharge. City
Attorney Deters asked if that was to include the fowler creek charge. Council
Member Cobble stated the surcharge is paid by everyone and that is added to all
city residents billing to pay the GRW debt which was overpaid by $846,000.00.
She stated the residents in the fowler creek sewers would then just be paying
the debt reduction. Council Member Franzen stated the fowler creek charge is
added to the property tax bills, and not on the sewer bill. City Attorney
Deters asked if council was aware the surcharge was added in 1978 and the GRW
was not in existence at that time. Council Member Little stated it was for
maintenance of the sewer system and since the city no longer provides
maintenance for the sewer system it is not needed. City Attorney Deters stated
the fowler creek ordinance allows the city to use that surcharge also for the
payment of the fowler creek debt. He stated if the surcharge was kept in place
it would help reduce the debt reduction. Council Member Yeager stated she would
like to move the monies from the second fund up to the fowler creek fund until
such time it can be paid down. She stated there needs to be a history and a
forecast for future incoming leaders.
NOTHING MORE WAS ON TAPE
 
March 21, 2005
Caucus Council Meeting Minutes
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 21,
2005 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi advised that those who signed in for privileges of the floor
would reserve comment until the agenda item is presented for discussion.
Request of City to Support Zoning Text Amendment to Add Medical Office
Buildings as Permitted Use in NC Zone
Mr. Jim Bertram addressed council with a request that the city sponsor a zoning
text amendment that would add medical office buildings as a permitted use in
the NC zone. He stated that currently only the PO (professional office) zone
allows medical office buildings. Mr. Bertram advised that he will be
constructing an office building on the old Park and Ride lot at 5294 Madison
Pike and currently has a doctor that is interested in locating there.
Hearing no objections to this request, Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Deters to
draft a Resolution approving the sponsorship of this text amendment application
and it would be presented at the April 4, 2005 meeting for council’s
consideration.
Road Inventory Summary Report – Presented by City Engineer, ––Mark
Brueggemann–, CDS Engineers
Mayor Moriconi stated that several months ago the city council authorized an in
depth road inventory of all the city streets. He stated the city engineer has
compiled his findings and has presented a report, which Mr. Brueggemann will
review with council.
Mr. Brueggemann stated the results of this road inventory lists every city
street and provides detailed information such as the length and width, type of
pavement, curbs (if there are any) and the type of curb and whether or not the
street has sidewalks. He stated that each street was visually inspected and
evaluated. The report also estimates which streets need to be reconstructed and
when with an opinion of construction costs for each fiscal year through the
year 2009 for the city’s budgeting purposes. He stated the recommendations were
made based on needs and conditions.
Mayor Moriconi stated this report now provides the city with a guide to use
over the next five years. Council Member Little stated this report is
excellent. He asked if the cost estimates were figured at today’s prices. Mr.
Brueggemann replied yes and that adjustments for inflation would be necessary.
He stated his ballpark estimate would be 2-3% per year or the CPI (consumer
price index).
Council Member Kelso asked if this five-year plan was based on current budget
assumptions and if this would be reflected in the 2005/06 budget, as he feels
the city should not have studies conducted and then not implement the results
of the study. Chief Butler stated the city did not have a street program in
place when he assumed supervision of the Public Works Department. He stated he
feels this is a critical step; obtaining the data needed to develop a plan for
future repairs.
Mr. Brueggemann stated that based on the number of roads in the city, the
absolute minimum the city should be budgeting for road repairs each year is
$300,000 to $500,000. Mayor Moriconi commented some of the repairs could be
accomplished in the 2005/06 budget or a plan could be developed to fund a
portion of the major repairs.
Council Member Cobble asked if some of the streets with major problems could be
attributed to storm water runoff. Mr. Brueggemann replied yes. She commented
that if this is the case then the city might want to approach the Sanitation
District (SD1) with a request to help fund fifty percent of the repairs. Mr.
Brueggemann advised that since SD1 has a pending lawsuit that has been filed
against them regarding the storm water management program surcharge they
oversee for the local cities, they are suspending future storm water system
repair projects. Chief Butler commented that the city and Sanitation District
have already collaborated on two repair projects. Chief Butler asked if SD1 was
honoring prior commitments. Mr. Brueggemann stated SD1 is only honoring the
projects that have already been bid out.
Council Member Yeager stated she noticed the recommended depth of concrete is
one inch and in some cases one and one-half inch. She asked if the depth was
increased to two inches if it would increase the life of the street. Mr.
Brueggemann advised increasing the depth of the street to two inches would
decrease the height of the street curbs.
Council Member Cobble asked if stricter subdivision regulations would help
increase the life of the streets. Mr. Brueggemann advised some things could be
implemented, but that the city’s regulations are currently the same as the
other local cities. Council Member Franzen asked which was a better material
for the streets - asphalt or concrete. Mr. Brueggemann advised that asphalt is
easier to maintain, both wear well and have their pros and cons and that the
sub grade is very important for both materials.
Mayor Moriconi advised this street inventory report would be posted on the city
website or that residents could get a copy from the city office. Council Member
Cobble asked that the City Clerk be responsible for informing future elected
officials that this report exists.
OLD BUSINESS
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Rules of Order for Council Meetings – Review
of Latest Draft
Mayor Moriconi presented the latest revision of the Rules of Order ordinance
and asked for any comments or proposed amendments. He stated if there are no
requested changes then this would be presented at the April 4th meeting for a
second reading.
The start of a lengthy discussion ensued, so Mayor Moriconi suggested holding a
special meeting to provide more time to review the language of this proposed
ordinance. Council Member Franzen suggested moving Mr. Jim Bertram’s agenda
item up to let him make his presentation regarding his map amendment request.
Mayor Moriconi agreed that was a good idea.
NEW BUSINESS
Proposed Map Amendment – KCPC Application No. 1728R – An Approximate 50-Acre
Area along the South Side of Cody Road between the CSX RR and Upton Drive from
R-1C to R-1C(PUD) – Carol Ann Subdivision
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mr. Jim Bertram who distributed a handout
to council that included a Stage I development plan for “Carol Ann
Subdivision.” Mr. Deters asked if the information he was distributing were the
same documents reviewed by the Planning Commission (KCPC). Mr. Bertram replied
yes.
Mr. Bertram advised he was requesting a map amendment that would change the
current zone of R-1C to R-1C (PUD) as it would allow the developer a more
flexible design and preserve Banklick Creek by providing more open space. He
stated they will be approaching the Kenton County Conservancy to take over the
maintenance of the open green space. He stated the development plan calls for
117 lots; 78 single family parcels, which would be consistent with the type of
houses in the Troopers Crossing and Battleridge subdivisions. He stated the
remaining 39 lots would be developed as duplexes (two units per lot) and would
probably be rental properties, but not a section 8 development.
Mr. Bertram stated the KCPC has approved this map amendment and development
plan contingent on the following four conditions:
·   The City of Independence determine whether or not to close Cody Road at the
Banklick Creek/CSX railroad crossing.
·   That an HOA (homeowners association) or the Kenton Conservancy be assigned
the responsibility for the maintenance and management of the open space areas.
·   That each single family dwelling unit is provided with a minimum of 2 off-
street parking spaces and each 2-family dwelling unit e provided with a minimum
of 4 off-street parking spaces.
·   That additional pedestrian’s access to the proposed open space area be
provided in the vicinity of lots 88 and 89.
Mr. Bertram commented that he doesn’t know how the city feels about closing
Cody Road. It would be realigned to produce a T-intersection. He stated there
is slippage condition before the low water area and the development would
alleviate the slippage. A lengthy discussion ensued regarding options to repair
this portion of Cody Road. Chief Butler advised the Kenton County School Board
has sent correspondence to the city expressing their opposition to closing Cody
Road. He stated there is also the issue of whether it is the city or the county
that is ultimately responsible for the maintenance of Cody Road. He stated last
year Kenton County representatives attended a city council meeting to discuss
options for improving Cody Road, but they have not followed up with the city
since then. He stated that he believes the state provided funds to the county
to make improvements to Cody Road.
Council Member Cobble expressed concern regarding the proposed small lot sizes
and the duplex style houses. Mr. Bertram stated the R-1C (PUD) allows a more
flexible development and the smaller lot sizes will maximize the ridge and
leave the creek area undisturbed and the duplexes will provide a good mix of
residential units. He stated the larger lots by the railroad tracks might prove
to be unmarketable as a single-family parcel. He stated the frontage on the
smaller lots would be sixty-five feet, but that the PUD designation would
permit fifty-foot lots
Council Member Franzen suggested an all brick front on the duplexes. Mr.
Bertram was agreeable to that suggestion. Council Member Cobble asked the price
range of the homes. Mr. Bertram stated the prices would range from $150,000 -
$190,000 for the single-family structures and $200,000 for the duplexes. He
stated that one builder would develop all the duplexes and probably manage them
as well.
Mayor Moriconi questioned cluster mailboxes. Mr. Bertram stated he was not a
fan of cluster mailboxes and that the development would have consistent boxes.
Mr. Bertram stated that the site distance issue would need to be resolved
before this development can proceed.
Council Member Cobble asked about providing water access lines to Upton Drive
residents and Council Member Yeager asked the sewer system and if it would tie
into the Brushy Fork lines. Mr. Bertram replied that water lines would have to
be extended from the Battleridge subdivision as it currently stops one-quarter
mile from the site. He stated both water and sewer services would be provided
closer to Upton Drive and they would have to look at the possibility of
servicing the other residents in that area. He also advised that the sewer
system has not yet been determined, as they would be done in the design phase
of the development. Council Member Yeager stated she would like the builders to
provide that information to the city. He stated he would try to make a judgment
call in time for the first reading of the ordinance at the next meeting.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the subdivision would have an HOA. Mr. Bertram replied
no, that the developers, in an effort to be environmentally friendly wanted to
preserve the Banklick Creek, will be donating the open green space to the
Kenton Conservancy. Council Member Cobble asked if the Conservancy has agreed
to accept this. Mr. Bertram replied yes.
Council Member Cook advised she is not happy with the size of the lots. Mr.
Bertram commented that the sixty-five foot lots are a step up from the fifty-
foot minimum lot size permitted with a PUD zone. Council Member Franzen asked
how many lots are planned to be sixty-five feet. Mr. Bertram replied the
majority of the development would be sixty-five foot lots. Council Member
Franzen asked if he could increase the size of the lots. Mr. Bertram stated
that would be difficult in order to make the development feasible. Mayor
Moriconi advised Mr. Bertram there appears to be considerable concern from the
council regarding the small lot sizes and asked if he would like to make an
attempt to re-configure the lot sizes. Council Member Cobble also expressed
concern regarding the duplexes that would become rental property appealing to
lower income families.
Mr. Bertram stated he would try to get more information from the builder prior
to the next council meeting as well as some answers about the plans for the
rental property. Council Member Yeager commented that she has several concerns
and would like to negotiate some of the details of this proposed development.
Mr. Bertram stated he would look into some other options to present to council,
hopefully before the April 4, 2005 meeting.
Mayor Moriconi advised this proposed map amendment would require two readings
of an ordinance and suggested additional comments and concerns could be
addressed prior to the first reading at the April 4, 2005 meeting.
OLD BUSINESS (Continued)
(Continued) Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Rules of Order for Council
Meetings – Review of Latest Draft
Mayor Moriconi presented the continuation of the earlier discussion regarding
the latest revision of the Rules of Order ordinance. Since some of the council
members had numerous comments, concerns and/or questions it was decided to
review the seventeen pages proposed ordinance page by page. A lengthy
discussion ensued wherein revisions were made to the document. Mr. Deters was
directed to make the changes to the proposed ordinance and resubmit it at the
April 4, 2005 business meeting.
NEW BUSINESS
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Repealing Ordinance No. 12-1-78 that
Established the Sewer Maintenance Fee (Surcharge)
Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed ordinance that would repeal Ordinance No.
12-1-78 which established the general sewer maintenance fee (surcharge) in
1978. He advised the interlocal agreement with the Sanitation District (SD1) in
1998 relinquished maintenance of the city sewer lines to SD1 and since the city
has adequate funds to effectively pay the balance of the GRW debt it is no
longer necessary to impose this maintenance fee. He stated this proposed
ordinance is a result of Council’s discussion at the last meeting.
Council Member Kelso asked the amount of the fee. Council Member Yeager advised
the fee varies as it is based on water usage in each household. He asked if the
funds generated had ever been used to reduce the Fowler Creek Sewer debt.
Council Member Yeager stated she is attempting to gather more information about
the two sewer funds. Council Member Cobble distributed a copy of the KRS
regarding user fees and commented she feels this ordinance should have been
repealed in 1999. She stated if the fee is a surcharge, as considered by Mr.
Eger (General Manager of SD1) then it is a legal charge. She stated she feels
it was just a bookkeeping mistake and that the surcharge should have been
removed.
Mayor Moriconi commented that it seems everyone is in agreement that the
maintenance fee (surcharge) should be discontinued so this proposed ordinance
would be presented for a first reading at the April 4, 2005 meeting. Council
Member Cobble suggested the city notify SD1 that the fee will be discontinued.
Mayor Moriconi directed the City Clerk to draft a letter to SD1 for his
signature.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2005-O-01 and Eliminating the
Caucus Meeting Format
Mayor Moriconi presented for council’s consideration a proposed ordinance that
will amend Ordinance No. 2005-O-01 setting the times, places and purposes of
city council meetings. He stated the amended ordinance would eliminate the
caucus meeting format; times and place of the meetings would remain the same.
The comments expressed by the council members were in favor of this change.
Council Member Kelso suggested there was no need for this ordinance as the
council meetings are established in the Rules of Order ordinance the city is in
the process of adopting. Mr. Deters suggested that since the Rules of Order
ordinance would be in conflict with this ordinance that council may want to
just repeal Ordinance No. 2005-O-01
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Update on Cluster Mailbox Issue in the Clover Ridge Subdivision
Mayor Moriconi reported he has been informed that the U.S. Post Office Director
of Operations has visited the Clover Ridge subdivision and has determined the
cluster mailboxes can be retained. In addition, a Fischer Homes representative
has also confirmed they plan on keeping the cluster mailboxes in place. Mayor
Moriconi advised that Fischer Homes is adamant in their position on this issue.
Council Member Yeager asked that Mr. Deters go to the Director of Operations’
supervisor. Council Member Cobble commented that since Mr. Deters is of the
opinion that the city ordinance prohibiting cluster mailboxes is valid, then
she would like to see specific federal law the U.S. Post Office cites the city
is violating. Mr. Deters stated he has researched this issue and could not find
any laws the city is violating and the legal counsel for the Post Office has
not provided any. He stated he feels since the city is not restricting the Post
Office’s delivery of the mail then the city has the authority to impose the ban
on cluster boxes
Mayor Moriconi asked council how far they wanted to go in pursuing this issue,
as it may be necessary to file a lawsuit if they want to move forward with
enforcing the ordinance. Mr. Deters advised the next step would be to file an
injunction in court. Council Member Cobble suggested Mayor Moriconi personally
call Henry Fischer. Mayor Moriconi informed council that he spoke with Steve
Feldman of Fischer Homes.
Mr. Steve Fischer (no relation to Fischer Homes), a resident in the Clover
Ridge subdivision addressed council by informing them that he has learned that
Fischer Homes has signed an agreement with the Post Office to install cluster
mailboxes in the last phase of the subdivision. He stated he has also learned
that once the cluster mailboxes have been established as the mode of delivery
they cannot change. He stated some individual curbside mailboxes have been
installed. Mayor Moriconi commented that developers prefer to install the
cluster mailboxes in subdivisions that have fifty-foot lots – for aesthetic
reasons.
Council Member Cobble commented that she feels the city needs to stand up and
enforce the city ordinances.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated that Council Member Franzen would select the business of
the month to be recognized at the April meeting. Council Member Franzen stated
he has chosen Cutters Depot.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Little stated there was a problem with a resident’s driveway on
’’’’Jimae Avenue’’ and he has give the information to Chief Butler to look
into.
Council Member Cobble stated she has learned from Public Works Crew Leader,
Jeff Smith that the city’s sign ordinance only permits the city to seek
reimbursement of the street name sign and labor to install from the developers.
She stated she would like to see that ordinance amended to include that all
street signage the city installs in new developments be reimbursed by the
developers.
Council Member Cobble also questioned the vehicle sticker fee ordinance and
asked if the fees collected were being deposited into the city’s road account
as she believes this is specified in the current ordinance. She stated she
feels this money should fund road repairs. Chief Butler stated he would review
the ordinance and let her know.
Executive Session
Mr. Deters advised he needed to request an executive session to discuss
possible litigation. Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive
session according to KRS 61.810(c ) to discuss possible litigation. Council
Member Yeager seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes and council
went into a closed session at 10:17 pm.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager to return to a regular open session,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, motion was made by Council Member Franzen and
seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion was carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 10:37 pm.
                     _____________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 4, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 4,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Former Council Member Jim Bushong gave the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: JoAnne
Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso, Michael Little and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Key to the City Presented to the Academic Team of Summit View Elementary
Mayor Moriconi presented a Certificate of Recognition and a key to the city to
the Academic Team of Summit View Elementary School in recognition of their
winning the Kentucky Association for Academic Competition (KAAC) Governor’s Cup
Regional Tournament in March.
Business of the Month Recognition
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Carol Franzen had chosen Cutter’s
Depot as the recipient of the Business of the Month. He presented a plaque of
recognition to the proprietor, Chris Barnes.
Approval of March 7, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the March 7, 2005
regular council meeting. Council Member Cobble so moved with a second from
Council Member Franzen. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered 6-
0. Motion carried.
Approval of March 21, 2005 Caucus Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the March 21, 2005
caucus meeting. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second by Council Member
Cobble. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered 6-0. Motion
carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No. 2005-O-03 – Second Reading
Approving a Map Amendment for 2 Parcels on the East Side of Madison Pike (5298
& 5302) – KCPC Application No. 1722R
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading an ordinance approving
a map amendment for two parcels on the east side of Madison Pike (5298 and
5302) from R-1C to NC under KCPC Application No.1722R. Mayor Moriconi directed
City Attorney Deters to read the proposed ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion on the second reading of Ordinance No. 2005-
0-03. Council Member Cobble so moved, with second by Council Member Yeager. A
brief discussion ensued that resulted in adding language to the ordinance that
would indicate the location of the sewer lines that this development would be
tapping into. Mr. Deters stated that this additional language was just
informational in nature and that this change would not merit another first
reading of the ordinance. Roll call was answered with all ayes. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-04 – Second ––––Reading–– - Adopting Rules of Order for
Council Meetings
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading an ordinance that
would establish and adopt rules of order and procedures to govern the
conducting of city meetings and parliamentary procedures. Mayor Moriconi
directed Mr. Deters to read Ordinance No. 2005-O-04.
Mayor Moriconi requested a motion to accept the second reading of Ordinance No.
2005-O-04. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member
Yeager. A brief discussion ensued wherein a few text amendments were noted.
Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council
Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-05 – Second Reading – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment
Adding Indoor Shooting Range as a Permitted Use in theRC-2 Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading an ordinance that
would approve a text amendment to the city zoning ordinance Section 10.19 RC-
2 zone adding shooting range (indoor only) as a permitted use. This ordinance
also overrides the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission
(Application No. 1725R) that the text amendment be approved, but for a
conditional use. Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read Ordinance No. 2005-
O-05.
Mayor Moriconi requested a motion to accept the second reading of Ordinance No.
2005-O-05. Motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council
Member Yeager. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered with all
ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
NEW BUSINESS
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment for a 50-Acre Tract on the South
Side of Cody Road – KCPC Application No. 1728R – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would approve a map amendment (KCPC Application No. 1728R) changing an
approximate 50-acre area located along the south side of Cody Road between the
CSX Railroad and Upton Drive, approximately 500 feet west of Upton Drive from
R-1C to R-1C (PUD). Mr. Deters read the ordinance.
A lengthy discussion ensued. Council Member Cobble advised she has discovered
the density for this development has been calculated incorrectly and she has
spoken to Mike Schwartz of the Planning Commission about this and he has
confirmed the density is wrong. Council discussed the possibility of reviewing
the Planning Commission’s entire record on this application or the city
possibly holding it’s own public hearing. Mr. Deters submitted a memo outlining
the council’s three options when confronted with a map amendment proposal.
Chief Butler voiced his concern that approving this map amendment and
development plan might send an incorrect message to the county that the city is
accepting maintenance of Cody Road. He cautioned council the city is still in
dispute with the county over the maintenance of some of the county roads within
city limits. He stated he is of the opinion that the city will not get
assistance from the county for the needed improvements of Cody Road. Mr. Deters
stated he did not feel the proposed ordinance contained any language that could
be interpreted that the city was automatically accepting full maintenance of
Cody Road.
Mr. Jim Bertram, developer of the proposed map amendment presented to council
and distributed a revised development plan. He stated that he tried to address
all of council’s concerns that were voiced at the last meeting, which included:
·   larger lot size – from the proposed 65’ to 70’ with some lots deeper
·   fewer lots – from 117 to 110
·   35 duplexes will now be sold as condo units, rather than the initial
proposal of rental units
·   eliminated the flag lots
·   no cluster mailboxes
·   duplexes will have an all brick front and will provide this on the single
family, if requested
Mr. Bertram stated he was unaware of the incorrect density issue and informed
council that he would contact Mr. Schwartz at the Planning Commission to
resolve this.
Mr. Deters advised council that since the lot sizes have change and the density
was calculated inaccurately, he feels the first reading of this proposed
ordinance needs to be repealed. He stated council has ninety days from the time
of the KCPC recommendation to act on the map amendment and in this case that
will be June 3, 2005.
Council Member Cobble moved to not accept the first reading of the proposed
ordinance approving a map amendment, KCPC Application Number 1728R, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0.
Mayor Moriconi advised this proposed map amendment would be presented at a
future meeting for a new first reading as soon as the density concern is
resolved, possibly for the April 18, 2005 meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending (Repealing) Ordinance No. 2005-O-01 Relating to
Council Meetings – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading an ordinance amending
Ordinance No. 2005-O-01 setting the times, places and purposes/subjects of the
city council meetings. There was a brief discussion relating to the meetings
now being addressed in the Rules of Order Ordinance No. 2005-O-04 that had the
second reading earlier in this meeting. The consensus of the council was to
repeal, not amend Ordinance No. 2005-O-01.
Council Member Yeager moved to repeal Ordinance No. 2005-O-01, seconded by
Council Member Little. Motion carried all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Repealing Ordinance No. 12-1-78 Regarding the
Establishment of a Sewer Maintenance Surcharge – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
repeal Ordinance No. 12-1-78 effectively eliminating the sewer maintenance
charge. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Resolution No. 2005-R-08 – Adopting a City Vision and Planning as Proposed by
Council Member ––––Kent–– Kelso
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-08 that would call
for the establishment of a citywide initiative to develop strategic priorities
for the city and a citizens committee to lead the process. Mayor Moriconi
directed Mr. Deters to read Resolution No. 2005-R-08.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-08, seconded by
Council Member Kelso.
A lengthy discussion ensued. Some members of the council expressed concerns
regarding the citizen committee setup, how it would be implemented, how this
proposal differed from the “Independence Tomorrow” committee that submitted a
strategic plan proposal a few years ago and the use of surveys to gather
information. Council Member Kelso reassured the council that the volunteers
serving on this committee would go into the community and gather information
from the residents about their dreams for the city. He stated the volunteer
committee meetings would be open to the public. Mayor Moriconi stated that the
Council never adopted the five-year strategic plan proposed by the
“Independence Tomorrow” Committee in 1999 after it was presented. Council
Member Yeager expressed her desire that any one that volunteered to be a member
of this committee should not be turned away. Council Member Kelso stated the
committee structure had to be a reasonable number. Roll was called and answered
with four yes votes and two no votes cast by Council Member Yeager and Council
Member Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Resolution No. 2005-R-09 – Supporting the Application of a Zoning Text
Amendment to add Medical Offices as a Permitted use in the NC and NSC Zones
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-09 that would support
a text amendment to the zoning ordinance to add medical offices as a permitted
use in the NC zone. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-09.
Motion was made by Council Member Cobble and seconded by Council Member Little
to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-09. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member
Cobble questioned the addition of the NSC zone, as this was not discussed at
the last meeting. Mr. Deters stated that both zones have almost identical uses.
He stated he discussed this with the City Clerk and they both agreed adding the
NSC zone was consistent with the NC zone. Council Member Cobble disagreed, and
cited that NSC zones are for shopping and she was not in favor of allowing
medical offices in shopping centers.
Council Member Cobble moved to amend her motion approving Resolution No. 2005-
R-09 by deleting the NSC zone. Council Member Little seconded the motion. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-10 Waiving the City Attorney’s Conflict of Interest
Regarding Litigation against the Sanitation District No. 1
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-10 that would waive
any conflict of interest created by the law firm of Deters, Benzinger &
LaVelle, P.S.C. by making the City of Independence a party defendant to legal
action against the Sanitation District No. 1 on the condition that no claim for
damages, monetary or otherwise will be sought or pursued against the city. The
law firm of Deters, Benzinger & LaVelle, P.S.C. also represents certain
plaintiffs who have initiated litigation against the Sanitation District
regarding the collection of storm water fees/taxes and the validity of certain
interlocal agreements entered into between the Sanitation District and various
municipalities including Independence. It is the desire to add Independence as
a party defendant only to ensure that the issues in said litigation can be
fully adjudicated.
Mr. Deters read the Resolution in summary. Motion was made by Council Member
Little to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-10, seconded by Council Member Yeager.
Roll was called and answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-11 Relating to Sidewalk Grant Funds and Authorizing the
Mayor to Sign the Agreement with the State to Receive the Funds Awarded
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-11 that would approve
an agreement between the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the city and
authorize him to execute the agreement on behalf of the city. He stated the
federal share of the total cost of the agreement would not exceed $159,814.79,
with the city agreeing to provide a minimum of 20%matching funds. A brief
discussion ensued regarding budgeted funds for the city’s share and the
administration of the grant. Motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Yeager to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-11. Roll was
called and answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-12 Relating to Crowe Road Grand Funds and Authorizing the
Mayor to Sign the Agreement with the State to Receive the Funds Awarded
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2005-R-12 that would approve
an agreement between the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the city and
authorize him to execute the agreement on behalf of the city. Mayor Moriconi
advised this grant will reimburse the city up to $96,941.16 for the resurfacing
and stabilization of Crowe Road. Council Member Little moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2005-R-12, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler thanked Dick Murgatroyd for his assistance in obtaining the state
funds for the repairs to Crowe Road.
He also reported that he would be meeting with county representatives tomorrow
to discuss the county road maintenance issue. He requested an executive session
at the end of this meeting to discuss this matter in more detail.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters reported that the he has contacted Mr. Jack Hunkemoeller of the Post
Office and a meeting is scheduled to discuss the cluster mailboxes that have
been installed in the Clover Ridge subdivision. Council Member Yeager suggested
the city write a letter to Senators Bunning and Thayer with a copy to the
postmaster. Mayor Moriconi suggested waiting until after the meeting with Mr.
Hunkemoeller and if the city is not successful in getting the cluster mailboxes
removed then he will write the Senators.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported there has been a good response to the citizen’s survey
that was published in the March newsletter and is posted on the city website.
He stated the results will be tabulated and then posted on the website and in
the next newsletter.
Mayor Moriconi stated that some of the survey respondents have expressed
concern with the roadside litter. He stated he would like to schedule a ‘clean
up Independence’ one Saturday in May and would like to enlist volunteers to
assist with this effort. He stated an announcement would be forthcoming.
Executive Session
Mayor Moriconi requested a motion to enter into executive session. Council
Member Franzen moved to go into an executive session in accordance with K.R.S.
61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing possible litigation. Council Member
Yeager seconded the motion. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to resume the regular session of the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no additional issues presented for discussion, Mayor Moriconi
entertained a motion to adjourn. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting
adjourned at 9:18 p.m.
________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 18, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 18,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant gave the invocation. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Donna Yeager, Mike
Little, Kent Kelso, Carol Franzen, Margaret Cook and JoAnne Cobble. Also
present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of April 4, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the April 4, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from Council
Member Little. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered 6-0. Motion
carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Proposed Ordinance - Map Amendment for 50-Acre Parcel South side of Cody Road-
KCPC Application No. 1728R - 1st Reading
Council Member Cobble asked Mr. Bertram if he had anything to report on the
density of the parcel of land. Mr. Bertram stated the actual size of the parcel
is 52.39 acres. Council Member Cobble stated to get the net density, which is
required, you have to subtract the 6.66 acres that are in the right of way. Mr.
Bertram stated it would then raise the density to 3.24 and the allowable in the
R1-C is 3.5. He stated the density is not being changed but they are providing
more than 20% of open space that is necessary for the PUD. Council Member
Cobble stated this development is closer to the R1-DD and not the R1-C PUD. Mr.
Bertram stated if they use the R1-DD it will allow them to increase the
density. He stated they have made compromises from the first plan by increasing
the lot sizes from 65 to 70 feet and duplex lots from 75 to 80 feet. Council
Member Cobble asked what the plans were for the parcel between lot 68 and 69.
Mr. Bertram stated that would be the access to the open space that will provide
public access from a public street. Council Member Cobble stated she was of the
understanding that all structures would have a brick wrap instead of a brick
front. Council Member Franzen stated she suggested brick wrap, but was advised
it could not be done and she then agreed to go with a brick front. Mr. Bertram
stated if brick wrap is required, it then becomes an unaffordable home for
first time home buyers. Mr. Bertram stated the Comprehensive Plan states they
have to provide, in Kenton County, affordable housing. Council Member Cobble
stated in Section #7 of the ordinance, she would like to add the wording
“individually owned” to be inserted. She also stated an additional (eighth)
condition be added clarifying, “No Cluster Mail Boxes”.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to send the application back to NKAPC &
KCPC, to make revisions, seconded by Council Member Cook. Mr. Deters stated he
did not feel the revisions were critical enough to send back to NKAPC. Mayor
Moriconi asked the clerk to call the roll. Roll was called and answered 2-4.
Motion failed.
Upon repeated advisement from Mr. Deters, Council Member Cobble made a motion
to have a first reading of the ordinance, so moved with a second by Council
Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote
cast by Council Member Kelso. Motion carried 5-1. Mr. Deters read the ordinance
with the amendments discussed.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-06 Repealing Ordinance No. 2005-O-01 Relating to Council
Meetings - 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading of an ordinance
repealing Ordinance No. 2005-O-01. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read the
proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion on the second reading of
Ordinance 2005-O-06. Council Member Cobble so moved, with a second by Council
Member Kelso. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered with all
ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-07 Repealing Ordinance No. 12-01-78 that Established a
Sewer Maintenance Surcharge - 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading an ordinance repealing
Ordinance No. 12-01-78. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read the proposed
ordinance. Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-07,
seconded by Council Member Cook. Roll was called and answered with all ayes.
Motion carried 6-0.
NEW BUSINESS
Request by Cherokee Acres Neighborhood Residents Requesting the City to Sponsor
a Text Amendment Relating to the NSC Zone
Diane Walker, 6446 Shawnee Ct. addressed council by stating she has lived at
this address since 1973 and is speaking on behalf of the Cherokee Neighborhood
Residents. She stated their hopes are City Council will support them on this
text amendment. She stated the lot in question is the vacant lot behind the
Cherokee Shopping Center and is surrounded on three sides by residential
property. She stated before that area was zoned for a shopping center, the
property was zoned residential and they are trying to maintain their property
values.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters if a text amendment would be needed. Mr. Deters
stated in his opinion they are asking the city to modify Section 10.15 and add
the wording “if a lot abuts three sides on residential zones, there shall be a
minimum yard requirement of 150 feet” and that would be a text amendment.
Council Member Franzen asked if this is strictly for the lot behind Mr.
Neltner’s building. Ms. Walker stated that was correct. Council Member Little
asked the size of the lot. Ms. Walker stated it was approximately 280 feet wide
by 300 feet approximately.
Council Member Yeager made a motion for the city to sponsor a text amendment,
with a second by Council Member Cobble. Council Member Kelso suggested that Mr.
Neltner be notified of the action. Mr. Deters stated all surrounding property
owners would be notified of the hearing. Roll was called and answered with all
ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance - Amending Ordinance No. 1997-O-06 Relating to Mud and
Debris on Streets - 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi asked if council had any questions regarding this issue. Council
Member Little asked how this came about. Mr. Deters stated the building
inspector and zoning administrator requested the amendment due to problems
enforcing the ordinance as it reads now. Mr. Deters stated this will allow them
to enforce the violation at a faster pace. After some discussion of the wording
under Section 1 of the ordinance, Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read the
ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance - Relating to Code Enforcement Authority - 1st Reading
Council Member Cobble asked who suggested this ordinance. Mr. Deters stated he
was instructed by Mayor Moriconi to meet with the building inspector, zoning
administrator and Assistant Police Chief, and it was determined from that
meeting that there are some problems enforcing violations and getting citations
issued. He stated the changes are needed to help the code enforcement officer
be more efficient. Council Member Cobble requested that under Section 10. (e),
the $50.00 appeal fee be returned if the board determines there was no
violation and under Section 12. (a), add wording, “If complainant should win on
appeal, the $50.00 appeal fee shall be refunded to the appellant”. Council
Member Cobble stated there should be a reference to “nepotism” in Section 11,
stating the board should be very cognizant if there is a conflict or interest.
Council Member Yeager asked Mr. Deters to add the wording “if found guilty”
under FINES in Section 1 of the ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi instructed Mr. Deters to read the proposed ordinance, with the
amendments discussed.
Proposed Ordinance-Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances - 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi advised this Ordinance was a housekeeping item and was required
by K.R.S. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read the ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance-Restricting Zoning & Building Permits when Builder has
Outstanding Violations-1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to explain this first reading of an ordinance
to assist the building inspector and zoning administrator to enforce codes
against applicants that have outstanding violations. Council Member Cobble
stated she did not like the word “PENDING” in the description of the ordinance.
Mr. Deters stated he could remove the word “PENDING” and add “Not on Appeal”.
Mayor asked Mr. Deters to read the proposed ordinance with amendments.
Proposed Ordinance-Street Sign Installation and Reimbursement by Developers -
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed ordinance,
amending Ordinance 1996-O-22. Council Member Cobble asked Chief Butler if he
felt comfortable with the thirty-minute increments in this ordinance. Chief
Butler stated that was the approximate time to install a sign and did not want
to bill anything under that amount of time. Mayor Moriconi instructed Mr.
Deters to read the ordinance.
POLICE CHIEF REPORT
Chief Butler advised council that an ordinance will be presented to them
regarding scooter problems in the city. He stated there have been several
accidents with the scooters being driven in the streets and the riders not
wearing helmets.
Chief Butler stated with the Resolution being approved by council for Crowe
Road repairs and the money, he would like council declare an emergency based on
the engineering reports and the cost estimates from the State of Kentucky and
the city can use the state’s contractor. Council Member Cobble asked the amount
of the money the city would be contributing.
Regarding the Cox Road improvements, Chief Butler stated the city engineering
fees would be approximately $9,750.00.
Chief Butler stated everyone is glad to have Officer Hallau back safe and sound
from Iraq. Lieutenant Tony Lucas is going to receive the Northern Kentucky
United Community Award for public safety that is sponsored by United Way,
Cinergy, Toyota and the Community Recorder.
Chief Butler stated 840 volunteers hours have been contributed to the city
since the Volunteers in Police Services program was started in December 2004.
He stated the cost of that to the city would have been approximately $14,000.00
and thanked all of the volunteers for their services.
CITY ATTORNEY REPORT
Mr. Deters had nothing to report.
MAYOR’S REPORT
Council Member Kelso stated he would get back to the Mayor regarding Business
of the Month.
Mayor Moriconi reported that security lights have been installed around the
restroom facility at Memorial Park due to vandalism.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to go into executive session pursuant to
KRS 61.810 (b) and (c). Council Member Cobble so moved, with a second by
Council Member Franzen. Motion passed 6-0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to return to the regular council meeting,
with a second by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Little. Motion passed 6-0. The meeting adjourned at 9:35 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
_______________________________________
Kathy L. Stenger, Assistant. City Clerk
May 2, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 2,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend Eric Bryant gave the invocation. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Donna Yeager, Mike
Little, Kent Kelso, Carol Franzen, Margaret Cook and JoAnne Cobble. Also
present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Presentation of Municipal Road Funds by Senator Damon Thayer
Mayor Moriconi introduced Senator Damon Thayer who was present to give a report
on the 2005 General Assembly Session and present a check in the amount of
$198,150.38 for road funds.
Council Member Kelso moved to allow Senator Thayer more time to speak than the
usual five minute allowance. Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. Motion
carried with all ayes.
Senator Thayer thanked Mayor Moriconi and Council for the opportunity to speak
about the very productive session just finished by the Assembly. He reported
the highlights of the Session included the passage of a balanced budget, an
overhaul of the tax code, several important pieces of legislation, economic
development of water, sewer and road projects, as well as cutting taxes across
the board.
Senator Thayer stated that he served on the Transportation Cabinet and that a
supplementary pool of funds has been allocated to cities for road improvements/
repairs. He presented Mayor Moriconi with a check in the amount of $198,150.38
in Municipal Road Aid from the State. Senator Thayer went on to report that he
will continue to work on getting the State to allocate funds for the east/west
connector (SR 536) which is critical for economic development. He stated he
will make this one of his priorities while serving in the Senate. He also
announced that the next phase of the new section of SR 17 will soon be
underway, as $18,000,000 has been allocated and bids will be let in June with
construction beginning approximately 2 months later. He stated the next phase
will run from Pelly Road to Apple Drive. Senator Thayer stated that when this
section is complete it will bypass Independence and provide access to the
rapidly growing surrounding areas.
Senator Thayer also mentioned that Mayor Moriconi had called him asking for
assistance with the deteriorating condition of Senour Road. He advised that he
has arranged for a short-term solution – heavy patching – which will be
accomplished in the next month or so, even tough it was not on the state’s
short term repair list. He advised that the city will need to apply for funds
for future major repairs.
In closing, Senator Thayer stated, that all-in-all, Northern Kentucky had a
very good year in Frankfort as millions of dollars was allocated to several
large projects in this area of the state.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Senator Thayer for the report as well as the extra road
funds.
Recognition of Business of the Month – ––––Independence–– Cleaners, Jeff
Bolger, Proprietor
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Kelso had chosen Independence
Cleaners as the recipient of the Business of the Month. He presented a plaque
of recognition to the owner, Jeff Bolger.
Approval of April 18, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the April 18, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from Council
Member Cobble. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered 6-0. Motion
carried.
Privileges of the Floor
Thomas Schonecker, 638 Madison Avenue, addressed council regarding the
deteriorating condition of Senour Road. He advised he is the Chief of Police/
Acting City Manager for the City of Covington. He stated that Senour Road is
unique as it borders both Independence and Covington, yet is a state maintained
road. He stated that Covington residents in the Senour Road area have
petitioned the City of Covington to do something to improve the condition of
the street. He stated he was present to ask Independence to support Covington
in their efforts to get the State to make repairs to the street and to reduce
the speed limit to a safer 35 mph. He asked that Independence write a letter to
the Highway Department, District 6 to petition the street repairs and reduction
of the speed limit.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that he has spoken to Covington Mayor Callery
regarding this issue. He also thanked Senator Thayer for arranging for
temporary street repairs.
Council Member Cook commented that the city should initiate a requirement for
builders to repair the road damages they created.
Juanita Simmons, 10805 Autumnridge, reported that the American Legion has
finally installed the yellow ribbon in the main lobby of the Municipal Center.
She advised the names listed on the ribbon are not current, as they had very
little help obtaining a list of Independence citizens that are actively serving
in the military. She stated that the names they were able to get were provided
by Nita Brake. Mayor Moriconi stated he appreciated all their work.
Steve Fischer, 3071 Saddlebred Court, addressed Council regarding the on-going
dispute with Fischer Homes (no relation to Steve Fischer) to remove the cluster
mailboxes in the Clover Ridge Subdivision. He stated everyone is working on
this effort but nothing is being accomplished. He stated a new section of
Fischer’s Maple Street Homes has opened and the developer has also installed
cluster mailboxes there.
A brief discussion ensued regarding the enforcement of the city ordinance
prohibiting the cluster mailboxes and whether it would be the responsibility of
the Zoning Administrator, Police Department or the Code Enforcement Board. City
Attorney, Mr. Deters stated he would look into this further and provide a
report at the next meeting.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No. 2005-O-18 - Map Amendment for 50-Acre Parcel South side of Cody
Road-KCPC Application No. 1728R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would approve a map amendment changing an approximate 50-acre parcel
located along the south side of Cody Road between the CSX Railroad and Upton
Drive from R-1C to R-1C (PUD) with certain conditions.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Council Member Kelso moved to adopt
Ordinance No. 2005-O-08, seconded by Council Member Cobble. A brief discussion
ensued wherein language was added to condition number two and amended in
condition number four. Condition number two added language that would state the
developer would be responsible for resumption of the maintenance of the open
spaces if the HOA (homeowner’s association) or the Kenton Conservancy became
defunct. Condition number four changed the lot numbers from 88 and 89 to 94 and
95. This was to accommodate the revised development plan which was requested of
the developer by the city Council.
Council Member Cobble expressed concern regarding the safety of children, as
this development is very near the railroad tracks. Mr. Bertram advised they
would provide a type of landscape barricade, with a mound and trees. Council
Member Cobble urged him to install a fence in that area to provide another
safety measure for the children in the area. He stated he would look at doing a
fence. She stated she would beg him to install a fence to deter the children
from playing near the tracks.
Mr. Deters advised a motion was needed to amend the original motion to include
the two minor changes of the proposed ordinance. Council Member Kelso so moved,
with second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Mayor Moriconi directed the Clerk to call roll on the original motion by
Council Member Kelso and second by Council Member Cobble to adopt Ordinance No.
2005-O-08. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by
Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2 to adopt Ordinance No.
2005-O-08.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-09 - Street Sign Installation and Reimbursement by
Developers – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading a proposed ordinance,
amending Ordinance 1996-O-22 relating to the installation of signs in new
developments. Mr. Deters gave a second reading to Ordinance No. 2005-O-09.
There being no discussion, Mayor Moriconi requested a motion to approve.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-09, seconded
by Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-10 - Amending Ordinance No. 1997-O-06 Relating to Mud and
Debris on Streets – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
amending Ordinance No. 1997-O-06 relating to mud and debris deposited on city
streets and right of ways and providing for penalties. Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-10, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. A brief discussion ensued regarding which city employees
would be responsible to enforce this ordinance and the fine being increased
from $250 to $500. Mr. Deters advised this ordinance is currently being
enforced by city personnel and is being amended to include additional language
to assist them doing so more efficiently and effectively. He also assured
Council that city personnel currently issue warnings before a citation is
actually issued. Some council members expressed concern in raising the fine to
$500 and that enforcement would not be arbitrary.
Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council
Member Cobble, stating that she has concerns regarding enforcement and feels it
should be under zoning. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-11 - Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would enact and adopt a supplement to the city Code of Ordinances. Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2005-O-11. There being no discussion Mayor Moriconi
called for a motion to adopt. Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance
No. 2005-O-11, seconded by Council Member Cobble. Roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance - Relating to Code Enforcement Authority
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend Ordinance No. 1999-O-02 relating to the Code Enforcement
authority. He stated he understands that some Council Members have some
unanswered questions and suggested that this second reading be delayed for
another month by taking it off the agenda and bringing it back at the June 2nd
meeting.
Council Member Yeager moved to take this proposed ordinance off the agenda,
seconded by Council Member Cobble. Council Member Yeager stated she thinks she
would like to table this until June 2nd. Council Member Cobble stated that she
would like to have a brief discussion after the vote. There was a brief
discussion on how to handle this issue; whether it should be tabled or removed
from the agenda.
Council Member Kelso stated the issue couldn’t be tabled unless a motion is put
on the floor. Mayor Moriconi stated there is a motion and second to pull this
issue from the agenda. Mr. Deters advised if the issue is pulled from the
agenda then there should be no discussion. Council Member Cobble stated she
would withdraw her second is Council Member Yeager would withdraw her motion.
Council Member Yeager agreed.
Council Member Kelso made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2005-O-12 and
stated that if he could get a second then the ordinance could be tabled.
Council Member Franzen seconded the motion.
Council Member Yeager moved to table action on Ordinance No. 2005-O-12,
seconded by Council Member Kelso.
A brief discussion ensued wherein some of the Council Members expressed their
concerns with the format of this amended ordinance, the amount of the fines
that would be imposed and due process being afforded to the violators. One
Council Member suggested a committee be formed to work on the language of this
ordinance amendment. Mr. Deters stated he felt he could address council’s
concerns to make the necessary changes without forming a committee.
Mayor Moriconi commented that it sounds like there may be a significant amount
of change to this ordinance and that it may become necessary to have a new
first reading.
Mr. Deters advised that council should vote on the motion on the floor to table
action on this ordinance. Mayor Moriconi directed the Clerk to call the roll.
Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council
Member Franzen, who clarified her vote by stating she did not see a problem
with the proposed ordinance. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-13 - Restricting Zoning & Building Permits when Builder
has Outstanding Violations-2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
restrict the issuance of building permits when there are any outstanding or
unremedied violations pending and not on appeal against an applicant. Mr.
Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-13, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously, motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-13 – Supporting a Text Amendment to Add Additional
Language/Requirements in the NSC Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2005-R-13 to Council. This resolution
would support a zoning text amendment application to add additional language/
requirements in the NSC zone as proposed by the residential group known as
Cherokee Acres Neighborhood Residents. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-
13.
Council Member Cobble moved to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-13, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Kelso
expressed concern that text being proposed, if approved, would apply to Mr.
Neltner’s vacant lot behind the Cherokee Shopping Center and could possibly
render that commercial parcel useless. Council Member Cobble commented it could
still be developed as a parking lot. Mayor Moriconi stated that currently it is
zoned for multiple uses. Council Member Kelso stated he did not disagree with
the residents concerns regarding possible development options of that lot. He
asked if Mr. Neltner had been contacted regarding this proposal. Mayor Moriconi
stated that Mr. Neltner has been notified. Mr. Deters commented that adopting
this resolution would approve submitting the application to the Planning
Commission, and then they would make a recommendation to Council to act on at a
future city meeting. There being no further discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
NEW BUSINESS
Crowe Road Repairs
Mayor Moriconi advised council that due to the rapidly deteriorating condition
of Crowe Road, he would forego the bid process for the needed repair work and
stabilization. He stated that KRS 424.260 allows him to certify that an
emergency exists and that the regular procedure of seeking bids for materials,
supplies, equipment and services will not be followed. He stated he would file
a signed Certificate of Emergency (a copy is attached) document with the city’s
Finance Director as required by KRS 424.260.
Council Member Yeager moved to support the Mayor’s declaration of an emergency
to forego the bid process to make the necessary repairs and stabilization of
Crowe Road. Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. At council’s request,
Mr. Deters composed an impromptu resolution (a formal Resolution does not
exist). No roll call vote; motion carried with all ayes.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler advised the Crowe Road repairs would begin sometime during the
next 30-60 days.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order No. 2005-EO-02 – Appointing Darrel Herald to the Board of
Adjustment
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2005-EO-02 wherein he appointed
Darrel Herald to the city’s Board of Adjustment to fill the unexpired term of
Tom Jump who resigned from the Board.
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2005-EO-02. Council Member Franzen made
a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2005-EO-02, seconded by Council Member
Little. No roll was called; motion carried 6-0
Executive Order No. 2005-EO-03
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2005-EO-03 wherein he appointed
Thomas Brinker to the city’s Board of Adjustment. This appointment would
replace Bob Exeler whose term ended.
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2005-EO-03. Council Member Yeager made
a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2005-EO-03, seconded by Council Member
Franzen. No roll was called; motion carried 6-0
Business Recognition for the Month of June
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Little would be selecting the
business to be recognized at the June 6th meeting. Council Member Little stated
he would select Cherokee Drug Shop.
Vision Committee
Mayor Moriconi asked that each council member submit two or three names of
citizens that could be asked to serve on the Vision Committee.
Executive Session
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to go into executive session pursuant to
KRS 61.810 (b), to deliberate possible property acquisition and (c) possible
litigation. Council Member Cobble so moved, with a second by Council Member
Franzen. Motion passed 6-0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to return to the regular council meeting,
with a second by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Little. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 9:20.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 16, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 16,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the May 2, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the May 2, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Yeager so moved with a second from Council
Member Franzen. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered 6-0. Motion
carried
Privileges of the Floor
No one signed in to address the Council.
Discussion of a Lease Proposal by Cingular Wireless
Mayor Moriconi presented for discussion a lease agreement proposal by Cingular
Wireless for a tract of land located in the Sterling Staggs Park (5103 Madison
Pike). He stated that Cingular would like to lease a 100 foot by 100 foot area
in the park for a cellular tower. Mr. Deters advised that it would be more
appropriate to discuss the proposed contract in executive session. He advised
that council should only discuss the proposed location in open session. Some
council members expressed opposition to leasing this area and voiced concern
regarding the proposed location of the tower citing that the park was too small
and that the playground equipment would have to be moved. They also had
concerns regarding fencing and/or landscape buffers. Other council members
spoke in favor of leasing the space but had concerns with the terms of the
proposed lease, including the financial package. It was decided to discuss the
terms of the proposal in more detail in executive session.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 2004/05 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend the 2004/05 budget. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion and/or questions from council.
Chief Butler stated that the major amendments included the addition of the MDT
(mobile data terminals) revenue that was previously omitted. He stated this is
just a pass through revenue/expense. He stated the amended budget also
reflected the additional principal payment on the Senior Center bond based on
the proceeds of the sale of the Park and Ride municipal parking lot.
Council Member Cobble voiced concern regarding the sewer tap in fees. She noted
the amended budget shows the tap in fees being moved from the general sewer
fund into the Fowler Creek fund as suggested by Rankin & Rankin (the city’s
auditing firm). She stated that according to the lease-merger agreement with
SD1 and in keeping with KRS 220.135 (5d) the tap in fees collected should have
been applied to the GRW debt. She stated she wanted it noted that she feels
this amendment is erroneous but it can be corrected at a later date after the
council meets to discuss this issue.
Council Member Franzen asked why funds were being transferred from the general
fund to balance the Senior Center budget. Chief Butler commented that this is
done each year to cover the debt retirement and operational expenses of the
Senior Center. She asked what the balance was of the Senior Center bond. The
City Clerk advised the principal balance would be approximately $240,000 after
the extra principal payment of $59,600 that will be paid in June.
Mayor Moriconi advised the amended budget ordinance would be presented for a
second reading at the June 6, 2005 meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a 2005/06 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented the proposed budget for the 2005/06 fiscal year along
with his budget message. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi
stated that his budget message highlighted the major changes from last years
budget and commented that property tax revenue has surpassed the occupational/
payroll license tax revenue, now making it the city’s largest revenue source.
He advised council that he would submit the proposed budget for a second
reading at the June 20th regular meeting and encouraged council to use next
thirty days to meet with him, Chief Butler or the City Clerk to address any
specific questions or concerns regarding this budget.
Proposed Ordinance – Creating the Position of Public Services Director – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed ordinance creating the position of a Public
Service Director. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi
advised creating this position is a result of one of the recommendations to the
city from the Citizens Budget & Economic Development Committee. He stated the
creation of a Director position for public services would encompass public
works and building and zoning services. There was a brief discussion regarding
the need for this position versus a city administrator.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that he has a meeting scheduled with the director of
the State Highway Department District 6 regarding the Cox Road turn lane
improvements. He stated that hopefully he will be able to provide an update in
a couple of weeks.
Mayor Moriconi announced that the Memorial Day Parade is Monday, May 30th at
10:30. He stated the parade would begin at the Firehouse on Delaware Crossing
and Madison Pike and end at the Kenton County Courthouse. He encouraged
everyone to attend.
Executive Session
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to go into executive session pursuant to
KRS 61.810 (b), to deliberate possible property acquisition and (c) possible
litigation. Council Member Cobble so moved, with a second by Council Member
Franzen. Motion passed 6-0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to return to the regular council meeting,
with a second by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
Council Member Kelso made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 8:13 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 6, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 6,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The Reverend John Cheadle from Independence Christian
Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso and
Donna Yeager. Council Member Mike Little was absent. City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters was also absent; his associate Jeremy Deters of Deters, Benzinger &
LaVelle attended the meeting in his place.
Business of the Month Recognition
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Mike Little had selected Cherokee
Drug Shoppe as the recipient of the Business of the Month. He presented a
plaque of recognition to Lisa Louden.
Approval of the May 16, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the May 16, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from Council
Member Cobble. There being no amendments, roll was called and answered 5-0.
Motion carried.
Privileges of the Floor
No one signed in to address the Council.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-14 – Amending the 2004/05 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading an ordinance that
would amend Ordinance 2004-O-24 and the annual budget for the 2004/05 fiscal
year. Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read Ordinance No. 2005-O-14. After
Mr. Deters gave the second reading of the ordinance, Council Member Yeager
moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-14, seconded by Council Member Franzen.
There being no discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2004-R-14 – Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an Agreement
with The Transportation Cabinet for Reimbursable funding up to $40,000 for the
Installation of a turn lane on Cox Road
Mayor Moriconi advised council that the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet has
agreed to provide funding, up to $40,000 for the installation of a turn lane on
Cox Road at the intersection with SR 16. He stated that the developer of the
Pembroke Subdivision off Cox Road will provide an additional $30,000 for a
section of the turn lane that provides egress into the subdivision. He also
stated that the city will incur the cost of the city engineer’s fees to design
the turn lane. Mayor Moriconi stated members of the council pointed out the
proposed agreement contained language stating the city would be responsible to
maintain this state road upon completion of the project. He stated he has
requested a corrected agreement deleting that condition. He stated he would
like to move forward with the adoption of this Resolution. He assured council
that he would not be signing the agreement until he receives the corrected
copy.
Council Member Kelso moved to approve Resolution No. 2004-R-14, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. A brief discussion ensued wherein Council Member Cobble
stated she opposed the city providing partial funding for this project since
Cox Road is a state maintained road. Mayor Moriconi advised that the city
approached the state to assist with this project and the state did not entirely
agree that this turn lane was necessary, but due to a rare collaborative
agreement between the developer, city and state this project can be realized,
providing a safer intersection for the residents. Council Member Yeager agreed
this project would not be realized without some city support. Council Member
Franzen stated she feels since Cox Road runs solely within the city limits that
the city needs to cooperate with the state. Council Member Cook commented that
she thought the turn lane was supposed to be the responsibility of the
developer. Mayor Moriconi advised that the developer was only responsible to
install a turn lane into the Pembroke Subdivision and that extending the turn
lane up to the intersection with SR 16 was proposed to the state by the city.
Council Member Kelso commented that sometimes give-and-take is necessary to
accomplish the needs for the residents, but that the city should clarify its
position to the state. Resident, Ken Lancaster commented that the left turn
lane is needed and while he does not like that the city has to partially fund
this project he feels it is needed.
Council Member Kelso moved to amend his motion to include the language
amendment of the first sentence in paragraph two on page two of the agreement.
Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
In closing the discussion on this subject, roll was called on the original
motion made by Council Member Kelso and second by Council Member Franzen to
approve Resolution No. 2005-R-14. Roll was answered with four ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried 4-1.
Proposed Ordinance –Approving a Zoning Text Amendment adding Medical Offices to
the list of Permitted Uses within the NC Zone – KCPC Application Number4 1735R
– 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission
to approve Application Number 1735R for a text amendment to the zoning
ordinance Section 10.14 NC zone adding offices, including medical and dental as
a permitted use in said zone. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment for an 0.5 acre area (5468
Madison Pike) from R-1C to R-2(PUD) & an Amended Stage I Development Plan for
an approximate 27-Acre area located along the East Side of Madison Pike – KCPC
Application Number 1736R – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission
to approve Application Number 1736R that would (1) approve an amendment to the
zoning ordinance changing an approximate 0.5 acre area (5468 Madison Pike)
located along the east side of Madison Pike, between Harris Road and Walnut
Hall, approximately 500 feet north of Harris Road, from R-1C to R-2(PUD) and
(2) review of an amended Stage I Development Plan. The Stage I Development Plan
would allow the map amendment site to be developed as part of a coordinated
plan for commercial development along the east side of Madison Pike. Mr. Deters
read the proposed ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi advised a second reading would take place at the next meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Personnel Classification & Pay Plan for 2005/06
– 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would enact a personnel and pay classification plan. Mayor Moriconi
advised this plan is updated every year. Chief Butler commented that the plan
authorizes the number of positions for each classification as well as the pay
ranges for each position. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Award Bid for the Sylvan Drive Reconstruction Project
Mayor Moriconi advised six bids were received by the city for the
reconstruction of Sylvan Drive. He stated that based on the outcome of the bid
opening and the city engineer’s review of the bids received that the engineer
is recommending that the contract be awarded to Barrett Paving Materials, Inc.
in the amount of $115,844.00.
Council Member Yeager moved to award the contract for the reconstruction of
Sylvan Drive to Barrett Paving Materials in the amount of $115,844.00, seconded
by Council Member Cobble. No roll call, motion carried with all ayes.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jeremy Deters
Mr. Jed Deters was absent. Mr. Jeremy Deters advised he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi presented to council and executive order appointing Mary Pat
Behler to the Board of Ethics/Code Enforcement Board. Council Member Kelso
initiated a brief discussion about whether this should be an executive order or
a municipal order. The consensus of council was that since their approval was
required for this appointment that it should be adopted as a municipal order.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order 2005-MO-01 approving the
appointment of Mary Pat Behler to the Board of Ethics/Code Enforcement Board,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. No roll called; motion carried with all
ayes.
Mayor Moriconi thanked District 6 of the Transportation Department for the
heavy patching of Senour Road.
Discussion Regarding Review of the Proposed Text Amendment KCPC Application
Number 1739R
Ken Lancaster, 733 Cox Road, advised council that the Kenton County Planning
Commission voted to table the review and recommendation of the proposed text
amendment, KCPC application number 1739R, which would modify the minimum yard
requirements within the NSC zone and add regulations for landscape screening
within the NSC zone due to incorrect verbage. He stated that Table 9-1 of the
Landscape Requirements needs to be resubmitted by the city correcting one word
in column two of the Table. He stated it should read “residential property” not
“residential zone”.
Council Member Kelso moved to make the necessary change and notify the Planning
Commission of the correction so they can review the application at their next
meeting. Council Member Cobble seconded the motion. No roll call; motion
carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
Council Member Kelso made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 7:37 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 20, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 20,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the June 6, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the June 6, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Cobble so moved with a second from Council
Member Franzen. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered 6-0. Motion
carried.
Privileges of the Floor
Ronnie & William Riley, 4284 Richardson Road, requested to address Council
before the second reading of proposed Ordinance No. 2005-O-19 relating to Code
Enforcement. Mayor Moriconi agreed to their request.
No one else signed in to address Council.
OLD BUSINESS
Ordinance No. 2005-O-15 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment adding Medical
Offices As a Permitted Use within the NC Zone – KCPC Application No. 1735R –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2005-O-15 that
would accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission
(Application No. 1735R) approving a text amendment to the zoning ordinance
Section 10.14 NC zone adding offices, including medical and dental as a
permitted use. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2005-O-15.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-15, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. A brief discussion ensued resulting in Council Member
Cobble to make a motion to amend the text by striking #32 and add the language
“including medical and dental” after #34, seconded by Council Member Kelso.
Motion carried with all ayes. There being no further discussion roll was called
on the original motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-15; roll was answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-16 – Creating the Position of Public Services Director –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed Ordinance
that would create the position of Public Services Director. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2005-O-16.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-16, seconded by
Council Member Little. After a brief discussion, roll was called and answered
with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion
carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-17 – Adopting a Personnel Classification & Pay Plan for
2005/06 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2005-O-
17 that would establish the personnel and pay classification plan for 2005/06.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-17, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-18 – Adopting a Budget for the 2005/06 Fiscal Year – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading an ordinance that
would adopt a city budget for the 2005/06 fiscal year. He commented that the
budget he is presenting is a balanced budget despite dealing with a 15%
increase in employee health care costs as well as retirement increases. He
stated this budget grows the reserve fund, expands the public works department
and invests almost a half million dollars in street and sidewalk improvements.
Mayor Moriconi thanked the council members that met with him to ask questions
and/or discuss their concerns.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2005-O-18. Council Member Yeager moved to adopt
Ordinance No. 2005-O-18, seconded by Council Member Franzen. A discussion
ensued. Council Member Cobble commented that she believes the $27,000 surplus
is artificial. She also stated she could not justify adopting a budget that
assumed the enactment of a 2005 property tax compensating rate plus four
percent that would support a budgeted 5% salary increase for employees. Council
Member Cook concurred. She stated that the resident’s property values were re-
assessed this year and she could not see adopting a compensating tax rate plus
four percent then give it away by providing five percent salary increases to
the city employees. Council Member Franzen commented she felt the proposed
budget was great. She stated she felt that five percent raises were typical and
it compensates the employees for a job well done. Mayor Moriconi commented that
he feels the employees deserve the proposed raises, especially considering that
for the first time ever they are paying a portion of their health insurance
premium this year. Council Member Little stated that a city budget differs from
a personal budget, taking into consideration that the city is trying to provide
as many services as possible with the current sources of revenue. He stated he
believes it is crucial to grow the Public Works Department.
Mayor Moriconi stated that the state statute allows the city to adopt a
compensating tax rate plus four percent in order to keep up with inflation. He
stated employee raises are part of the city’s inflation costs. He stated that
he feels this keeps city salaries competitive and reduces turn over in staff.
Council Member Yeager agreed and added that the citizens want more services and
the city needs to take the additional four percent over the compensating rate.
Council Member Cobble commented that she did not say the employees are not
doing a good job, only that she would want to give cost of living (COLA)
increases. She stated she did not feel the city employees should receive more
than the members of the United States military. Council Member Yeager commented
that federal government employees also get step raises and awards and often
receive other types of compensation. Council Member Kelso commented that he is
not comfortable using federal guidelines.
Council Member Kelso commented he is not prepared at this time to discuss the
2005 tax rate, since the tax rate would not be proposed until August, and this
proposed budget does not affirm the compensating rate plus four percent.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi asked the Clerk to call the
roll. Roll call was answered with four yes votes and two no votes cast by
Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-19 – Amending Ordinance No. 1999-O-02 Relating to the Code
Enforcement Board – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2005-O-
19, which has been tabled since April, since some of the council members wanted
to review with Mr. Deters regarding some of the changes. He stated the Zoning
Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld is present to address any questions from
Council. Mr. Deters stated that he changed the ordinance to include the
appropriate “amending” language but it did not make it in the packets. He
stated the final, signed version would. Mayor Moriconi advised before Council
begins discussion on this issue, he would like to yield the floor to Mrs.
Ronnie Riley, who had signed in under Privileges of the Floor to address
Council.
Ronnie M. Riley, 4284 Richardson Road provided a narrative of the on-going
zoning violations of the property next door (4290 Richardson Road) to her and
the trials and tribulations she has encountered with efforts to get the
property owner to comply to the city’s zoning regulations. She stated the
troubles with this property began in 1998 when this property built a batting
cage which was not approved for this development (storage units facility). She
stated the batting cage finally came down in 2003. She stated the property
owner continues to violate zoning code and has said he can do what he wants and
nothing will be done. She stated she has seen first hand how difficult it has
been for the Zoning Administrator, Police and Building Inspector to enforce the
Code. She stated she would like to encourage Council to adopt the proposed
ordinance, which she believes will give the city employees the tools they need
to enforce the regulations.
Mayor Moriconi advised that the most significant change to this ordinance would
be the increase in fines to the violators. He said currently the violator will
just pay a small fine and not rectify the violation. He stated when the
proposed amendments to the 1999 ordinance was first presented to Council in
April, it was agreed that the council members would meet with Mr. Deters to
iron out their concerns. He stated some of Council discussed these concerns.
Mr. Deters stated he discussed three concerns with Council Member Yeager and
she was okay with the legalities.
Mr. Deters stated Council Member Cobble wrote a three-page memo that was
distributed to everyone and he addressed those concerns. Council Member Cobble
stated she never received an answer to her memo. Mr. Deters commented that most
of the comments in her memo, which raised several legal issues, did not warrant
a response. Council Member Cobble expressed concerns that this ordinance
violates state statutes. Mr. Deters and Council Member Cobble engaged in a
debate regarding KRS and whether or not this ordinance violates state laws.
Mayor Moriconi interrupted the debate and asked Mr. Deters to read the proposed
ordinance. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2005-O-19. He advised Council that
this proposed ordinance amends the fines, addresses requirements for posting,
findings by the Board, if there is a violation; it includes a $50 appeal fee,
and makes it easier for the code enforcement officers to issue a second
violation for continued violations.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Ordinance No. 2005-O-19, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for any further
discussion before the vote. Council Member Cobble stated she would like her
memo she sent to everyone regarding this issue to be attached to the minutes of
this meeting as part of the official record. She continued the debate with Mr.
Deters regarding the legalities of the amendments proposed in this ordinance.
Mrs. Wuestefeld commented that she went to a code enforcement seminar wherein
she learned it is legal to post a citation on the property as long as it is in
a visible location. A brief discussion ensued regarding this. Council Member
Franzen and Yeager requested that a written notice be sent by mail in addition
to posting a notice on the property.
Council Member Kelso suggested that language amendments by the Council be posed
in the form of a motion in lieu of circular discussions. Council Member Yeager
moved to amend the language to add “regular mail”, seconded by Council Member
Kelso. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Cobble stated this is
violating state statute which will make this ordinance null and void. She
stated she is aware problems exit with zoning code enforcement but she feels
this ordinance will not do it, because she believes it violates state law. Mrs.
Wuestefeld stated she consulted an attorney with the Kentucky League of Cities
who advised that posting the notice on the property and taking a photo of it is
as good as sending the notice by certified mail. She went on to say that the
KLC attorney said it provides immediate notice by posting it on the property.
Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Deters if he feels this ordinance is in
violation of state law. Mr. Deters replied that he does not feel these
amendments violate state law and for clarification purposes explained that
there is a difference between initiating due process and completing the due
process. He went on to say that when citations are issued we comply with
statute by doing all, and the section Council Member Cobble is referring to is
with respect to posting the final orders which does not violate the statute. He
stated there are two separate statutes and he is perfectly comfortable with the
language of this ordinance. Council Member Yeager suggested taking a vote and
if we find it is wrong then we will amend. Mayor Moriconi directed the Clerk to
call the roll on Council Member Yeager’s motion to amend the language to add
“regular mail”. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no votes
cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Mayor Moriconi resumed the discussion on the main motion on the floor to adopt
the ordinance. A brief debate ensued between Council Member Cobble and Mr.
Deters regarding her memo. Mayor Moriconi closed the floor to further
discussion and directed the Clerk to call the roll. Roll was called and
answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and
Cook. Council Member Cobble explained her vote by stating she would not violate
the oath she took to uphold the laws of this state and this country. Motion
carried 4-2.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler announced the Independence July 4th Celebration to be held on
Friday and Saturday, July 1 and 2. He advised shuttle busses would be
transporting people from overflow parking at the Summit View Schools and he
encouraged everyone to use this service to avoid parking hassles and traffic.
Also on June 29 he would be participating in the MDA (Muscular Dystrophy Assn)
Lock-Up and would appreciate any donations to ‘raise bail’ to get him out of
jail.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report. He requested an executive session.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated that Council Member Yeager would select a business to be
recognized for the Month for July. Council Member Yeager stated she would
decide then let the City Clerk know for the July 11th meeting
Mayor Moriconi encouraged everyone to attend the July 4th Celebration. He
stated the parade will begin at 3:30 on Saturday and fireworks scheduled for
10:00 pm.
Executive Session
Council Member Kelso made a motion to enter into executive session in
accordance with KRS 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussion pending litigation
and KRS 61.810 (b) to discuss possible property acquisition, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Results of the Executive Session
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council has authorized him to make an offer on a
piece of real estate. He stated that Council has also authorized him to
initiate a lawsuit regarding property rights as soon as possible.
Mayor Moriconi stated Council has also requested that a representative from
Cingular attend one of the July Council meetings to answer questions regarding
the proposed cell tower in Staggs Park.
Adjournment
Council Member Kelso made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 9:20 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 11, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 11,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little
and Donna Yeager. Council Member Kent Kelso was absent. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Recognition of Business of the Month – Godby’s Lawn Mower Service – Betty
Godby, Proprietor
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Yeager had chosen Godby’s Lawn
Mower Service as the recipient of the Business of the Month for July. He
presented a plaque of recognition to the owner, Betty Godby.
Approval of the June 20, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the June 20, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from Council
Member Yeager. Council Member Franzen stated she did not feel it was
appropriate to attach Council Member Cobble’s memo, dated May 12, 2005, as part
of the official meeting minutes because it was not read into the record at the
June 20th meeting. Council Member Yeager concurred. A brief discussion ensued.
Council Member Cobble raised a point of order stating that the recently adopted
Rules of Order ordinance permits prepared statements to be attached as part of
the official minutes. Council decided to delay the adoption of the minutes
until the end of the meeting to give Mr. Deters time to review the Rules of
Order ordinance.
Privileges of the Floor
No one signed in to address the Council.
OLD BUSINESS
Staggs Park Cell Tower Proposal – Tim Sturm of Burgess & Niple Engineers
Mayor Moriconi introduced Tim Sturm with Burgess & Niple Engineers, who was
representing Cingular Wireless in their proposal to lease space from the city
in Sterling Staggs Park for a cell tower disguised as a flagpole. Mayor
Moriconi commented that Mr. Sturm inspected the park area prior to the meeting
and advised that a third location has been looked at that might be more
suitable than the first two proposed areas. He stated the site was on the north
side (Sylvan Drive) of the park near the basketball fields.
Mr. Sturm advised that Cingular uses his firm to locate possible sites for
their cell towers. He stated they now must determine a site before proceeding
with terms of a lease agreement. He stated that he feels the site area near the
basketball fields can be reduced from the proposed 100x100 feet to 50x50 feet
as they just need an area large enough to install the tower and a 10’ x 20’
equipment building. He stated they usually prefer a larger space, and then it
would not be necessary to negotiate for additional space in the future, but if
other carriers wanted additional space they could negotiate for it. Mr. Sturm
advised the basketball courts and ball field would not be disturbed. He also
commented that they could forego the installation of a fence around the area.
Council asked if some of the parking spaces along the Sylvan Drive side of the
park would be taken. Mr. Sturm stated the city could not loose any of the
parking slots, but that Cingular would probably desire a reserved spot ‘of
record’ for access to the equipment building.
Some issues were raised regarding the proposed lease agreement. Mr. Deters
advised council that the details of the lease agreement could be resolved later
and it may be necessary to sort out the terms in an executive session.
Council Member Cobble asked Mr. Sturm to address the safety issue of cell
towers. Mr. Sturm advised that cell towers are regulated by the FCC (Federal
Communications Commission) and that Cingular follows these regulations
regarding the amount of emissions they transmit. He stated there have been
numerous reports and studies regarding the safety of the towers which can be
found on the internet. He stated they are installed in football fields and atop
hospitals.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that a site would need to be agreed upon at this
meeting. Mr. Deters stated that Cingular would need to perform tests on the
site area and if they tests failed the site would be abandoned.
After some discussion, Council Member Yeager moved to tentatively approve the
site location near the basketball courts on the north side of Sterling Staggs
Park for the cell tower lease area pending all the other conditions. Council
Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered with all ayes.
Motion carried 5-0.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Strum for attending the meeting. Council Member
Cobble thanked Mr. Sturm for negotiating with the city regarding the fence and
size of the lease area.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-20 – Approving a Map Amendment for an 0.5 acre area (5468
Madison Pike) from R-1C to R-2(PUD) & an Amended Stage I Development Plan for
an approximate 27-Acre area located along the East Side of Madison Pike – KCPC
Application Number 1736R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission
to approve Application Number 1736R that would (1) approve an amendment to the
zoning ordinance changing an approximate 0.5 acre area (5468 Madison Pike)
located along the east side of Madison Pike, between Harris Road and Walnut
Hall, approximately 500 feet north of Harris Road, from R-1C to R-2(PUD) and
(2) review of an amended Stage I Development Plan. The Stage I Development Plan
would allow the map amendment site to be developed as part of a coordinated
plan for commercial development along the east side of Madison Pike. Mr. Deters
read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Cobble moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-20, seconded by
Council Member Cook. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-15 – Accepting Ownership and Maintenance of the Bypassed
Segments of ––––Old McCullum Road
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2005-R-15 that would accept
ownership and maintenance of the existing section of Old McCullum Road that
will be bypassed with the completion of the relocation of KY 17. He stated the
area would be a 700 foot section of road that would dead-end. Mayor Moriconi
distributed a map that indicated the area.
Council Member Cobble moved to add language to Resolution No. 2005-R-15 to
state that the section of road would only be accepted for ownership and
maintenance when it met city standards and to adopt said resolution, seconded
by Council Member Little. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-
0.
Lease-Purchase Agreement with Fifth Third Bank for Cruisers & Public Works Dump
Truck
Assistant Police Chief Dave Nichols presented two tax-exempt lease purchase
agreements with Fifth Third Bank for the financing of four new police cruisers
and one new Ford F-Series Public Works Truck. The agreement to finance four
police cruisers would be for $86,018.00 at an interest rate of 4.23%. The
agreement to finance one Public Works truck would be for $47,000, also at
4.23%. Both agreements would be for a term of three years. Mr. Nichols advised
that KLC (Kentucky League of Cities) offered a slightly lower interest rate but
they would impose some conditions, such as the city would have to enact an
ordinance that would require a tax be passed if the city would default on the
loan. He stated the city has used Fifth Third Bank for this type of financing
in the past and they always provide a comparable interest rate.
Council Member Franzen moved to authorize the Mayor to execute the financing
agreements for the purchase of the four vehicles and the Public Works truck,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Approval of the June 20, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes – Resume Discussion from
earlier in the Meeting
Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Deters has reviewed the Rules of Order Ordinance. He
directed Mr. Deters to read the pertinent sections regarding prepared
statements being attached to the minutes of a meeting as part of the official
record. Mr. Deters read relevant sections of the ordinance; Section 2.20 and
Section 5.3. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Cobble maintained that
no objection was voiced at the June 20th meeting when she requested the memo be
attached to the minutes. Mr. Deters held that the objection was not necessary
until such time that the minutes are presented for adoption as the official
record. Council Members Franzen and Yeager asserted that they had no objection
to attach the memo to the minutes as long as it was publicly read at the
meeting. Council Member Franzen stated if Council Member Cobble would read the
memo at this meeting then it could be attached to the minutes of this meeting.
Council Member Franzen moved to yield the floor for more than seven minutes to
allow Council Member Cobble adequate time to read her May 12th memo into the
record; seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr.
Deters advised that the memo would then be attached to the minutes of this
meeting, not the meeting of June 20, 2005.
Council Member Cobble agreed to and read her May 12, 2005 memo.
Mayor Moriconi directed the Clerk to call the roll on Council Member Franzen’s
motion, seconded by Council Member Yeager to approve the minutes of June 20,
2005 meeting. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Police Chief Report – J. David Nichols, Assistant Chief
Assistant Chief Nichols reported that there was an estimated 15,000-16,000
people that attended this year’s July 4th celebration fireworks on Saturday
night. He stated they received numerous compliments. He thanked the many
volunteers and employees who worked the event. He commented that many of the
regular volunteers take vacation leave from their jobs to help out during the
week of this annual event.
City Attorney Report – Jed. K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Miscellaneous Discussions
Council Member Cobble stated she would like to provide an update on the Zoning
Code Enforcement issue. She state she spoke to Mr. Sanders, a Code Enforcement
seminar instructor, who advised that the city could post violation notices only
after trying other methods of notification and if the property appears
abandoned/vacant. She suggested Mayor Moriconi contact J.D. Chaney who is an
attorney with the Kentucky League of Cities to discuss the legalities.
Council Member Cook expressed her displeasure with the city providing space in
the city newsletter for articles from the Independence Fire District and the
Kenton County Library. She stated she has received comments from the residents.
Council Members Little and Yeager concurred. Council Member Cobble stated the
library has their own newsletter and agreed that the city should discontinue
accepting articles from them for the city newsletter. She suggested publishing
the library and Fire District websites instead. Mayor Moriconi stated he would
take these suggestions under consideration.
Council Member Cook addressed complaints she has received regarding a parking
problem on Don Victor Drive. Apparently it has become a problem with residents
parking on both sides of this narrow road. She commented that a preliminary
plat has been approved that will be adding more homes (and cars) in this area.
Mr. Deters advised that the city could adopt an ordinance that would prohibit
parking on the street and would prepare one for Council consideration.
Council Member Cook asked when construction would begin on Crowe Road. Mayor
Moriconi advised that construction should begin this month.
Council Member Cook commented that the development on Richardson Road that will
house the shooting range has additional lots for sale. She stated she was
unaware there would be other lots and asked if this was approved. There was a
brief discussion. Mayor Moriconi stated that the text amendment to add shooting
ranges in that zone was the only part of the development that had to be
approved by the city as the zone already permitted the additional lots.
Council Member Franzen advised she has received an e-mail from a resident on
Lakearbor Drive would like the city to install speed bumps to deter speeders.
Mayor Moriconi advised there is a procedure that needs to be followed as
outlined in the recent ordinance passed by the Council regarding this type of
request. He requested the City Clerk to mail a copy of the Speed Hump Program
ordinance to the resident.
Adjournment
Council Member Cobble made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Little. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 18, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 18,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Mayor Moriconi called for a moment of silence for Army
Spc. Ronnie D. Williams who died on July 17th while on active duty in Iraq.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: JoAnne
Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso, Mike Little and Donna Yeager.
Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the July 11, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the July 11, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from Council
Member Little. Council Member Cobble stated that she was correct in stating at
the July 11th meeting that her memo of May 12, 2005 could be entered into the
record as part of the July 11th meeting minutes without actually being read
into the record. She read Section 4.19 of the Rules of Order ordinance which
she stated supported her position and advised her memo should be attached to
the June 20th meeting minutes. Mayor Moriconi asked for Council comments
regarding Council Member Cobble’s statement. There being no expressed comments,
Mayor Moriconi directed the Clerk to call the roll. Roll was called and
answered with four ayes and two nays cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook.
Motion carried 4-2.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi stated those registered to address council wanted to speak
regarding specific issues on the agenda and he would call on those during each
agenda item.
Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Text Amendment Proposal to increase the Minimum
Planting Strip for Developments within the NSC Zone – KCPC Application No.
1739R
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to the citizens signed in to address Council
regarding this issue.
Diana Walker, 6446 Shawnee Court, Independence addressed council, speaking on
behalf of the Cherokee Acres Neighborhood Residents and in support of a
proposed zoning text amendment that would increase the minimum planting strip
for developments within the NSC zone. She submitted a petition signed by
residents supporting the approval of the text amendment and urged Council to
approve this proposed text amendment.
Ken Lancaster, 733 Cox Road, also addressed council regarding the proposed text
amendment and urged Council to approve this. He read a prepared statement
wherein he outlined the reasons that KCPC has recommended the city disapprove
this and the reasons he feels the Council should approve it.
Marty Neltner, 6239 Taylor Mill Road, Independence addressed Council voicing
his opposition regarding the proposed text amendment. He stated that while he
understands the residents concerns with regard to development possibilities of
his property (731 Cox Road) behind the Cherokee shopping center, he feels that
it has become personal and prejudicial. He stated he has the right to develop
that property and in the past has tried to consult with the surrounding
residents to foster a conciliatory resolution regarding the commercial develop
of this property. He stated he is still willing to work with the residents, and
with the guidance of the Planning Commission develop this land in an
appropriate way that would be considerate of the adjoining property owners. He
stated that he was not opposed to the idea of a 50 foot buffer, if it was
feasible, as he currently did not have a development plan.
Lola Belville, 741 Cox Road, commented that she did not want to see a parking
lot adjoining her property.
A lengthy discussion ensued between Council, Mr. Neltner and Mr. Lancaster,
which concluded with Mr. Neltner agreeing to work with the residents to
consider a development plan that would be acceptable to the property owners
adjacent to Mr. Neltner’s property located behind the Cherokee shopping center,
known as ’’’’731 Cox Road’’. Some council members expressed a willingness to
act as an intermediary with the residents and Mr. Neltner in an effort to
resolve this issue. Mr. Deters advised the Council that doing so could present
some conflict issues later.
In closing the discussion on this issue, Council decided to table, for an
indefinite period of time, any action on the recommendation of the KCPC for the
proposed text amendment, therefore a first reading of the proposed ordinance
did not take place.
Request by Helen & Jim Kudera for the City to Sponsor a Text Amendment
Mayor Moriconi advised council that the city has received a request that the
city request assistance from the NKAPC staff in drafting a text that would
create a new zone for a retirement village
Mayor Moriconi said the possible development of a retirement home was brought
before the Council last year and a zone change and development plan submitted
to the Planning Commission (KCPC), but they did not recommend approval of this
type use in the R-2 zone and the city does not have an appropriate zone that
would regulate retirement home uses.
Jay Bayer, Engineer/Surveyor with Bayer-Becker reiterated they went through the
application process last year and the city agreed to annex part of the
development property. He stated they requested the R-2 zone as it was the best
zone they could use, which would solve their needs, but would leave the
neighborhood up for some exposure to other developments that were permitted in
that zone. He stated that the KCPC denied their zone change request. Therefore
they are requesting the city ask the NKAPC staff for assistance in drafting
proposed new text for the official zoning ordinance to create a new zone that
would best suit retirement housing along with the appropriate language that
would regulate circumstances, conditions and regulations.
Mr. Jim Kudera advised the development he is proposing would be unique in
Northern Kentucky as it would be an independent living retirement village that
would be individually owned but would have covenants and restrictions that
would include resident minimum age and transfer of ownership should a resident
require assisted living.
There was a brief discussion regarding the location of the planned development
(McMillan and the new SR 17)
Council Member Kelso moved to request assistance from the NKAPC staff in
creating a new zone and related language that would best suit retirement
housing for consideration by the city to possibly submit for a zoning text
amendment. Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. There was a brief
discussion wherein the Council Members expressed a desire to review the NKAPC
staff recommendations for the new zone and related language before they
actually approve submitting a text amendment application. Mr. Deters advised
that the NKAPC staff results would be presented to the Council for
consideration before proceeding with the process.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with five ayes
and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Prohibiting On-Street Parking on Don Victor Drive
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
make it unlawful to park any motor vehicle, trailer, truck, motorcycle, or the
like, at any time, on any portion of Don Victor Drive. He stated this ordinance
is being proposed at the request of Council Member Cook at the last meeting.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to the citizens in attendance that wished to
address Council regarding this issue.
Linda Boggs, 914 Don Victor Drive stated she opposed the proposal to prohibit
parking on her street. She expressed concerns that she would not have a place
to park their van which they use to transport her to her doctor appointments.
She suggested the city install speed humps as a speed deterrent.
Tonya Williams, 957 Don Victor Drive, submitted a petition signed by citizens
who opposed prohibiting on-street parking on Don Victor. She expressed concern
where the visitors of the residents would park as well as additional parking
spaces for the residents. She suggested if the city wants to fix the speeding
problem and address safety issues on the street that it should be dead-ended or
made into a one-way street. She stated that prohibiting on-street parking will
hurt many of the residents who have teenagers with vehicles that need to be
parked on the street. Ms. Williams requested that Council reconsider this
proposed ordinance.
Karen LeMaster, 940 Don Victor Drive, stated she has never lived anywhere that
did not allow on-street parking. She stated that the driveways on the street
only hold two vehicles
Mayor Moriconi suggested the city survey the residents on Don Victor Drive to
solicit input before proceeding with this ordinance. A brief discussion ensued.
It was noted that a developer will be constructing nineteen new homes on the
street which will affect the traffic. Also mentioned was this was one of the
county maintained streets that was turned over to the city and since the city
has initiated legal proceedings against Kenton County regarding this issue, it
was decided to table any action until the lawsuit is settled.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler, Police Chief
Chief Butler thanked all the volunteers that worked on the July 4th Celebration
as well as the city employees who worked extra hours.
Chief Butler also announced that a benefit event would be held on July 24, 2005
to raise funds to purchase a defibulator for the Senior Center.
City Attorney Report – Jed. K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Yeager commented that all the correspondence the city receives
from the NKAPC regarding the approval of preliminary plats specifies that the
approval includes “public improvements, such as streets, storm drains, sanitary
sewers and water systems” and she would like for them to add ‘sidewalks’ to
that. She feels that the term ‘public improvements’ may include sidewalks, but
she is not sure and would like NKAPC to add that language in the future so the
city is aware that it is included in the approval of the plat. Mayor Moriconi
directed the City Clerk to convey this request to the NKAPC.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to establish a three-member committee to
investigate why it took five years to resolve the zoning violation regarding
the batting cage at the Beechgrove Storage property located at 4290 Richardson
Road and to make a recommendation to ensure that doesn’t happen again. Council
Member Yeager seconded the motion. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Deters
advised that this committee would not be appointed by the Mayor, but that
Council would be acting independently in exercising their legislative
authority. Council Members Cobble, Yeager and Franzen volunteered to be on this
committee. Roll was called and answered with three yes votes and three no votes
cast by Council Members Kelso, Little and Cook. Mayor Moriconi broke the tie by
casting a no vote. Motion defeated 4-3.
Executive Session
Council Member Kelso moved to enter into an executive session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussion pending litigation and KRS
61.810 (b) to discuss possible property acquisition, seconded by Council Member
Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Kelso moved to reconvene the regular session of the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
Discussion Regarding the Purchase of 4062 Richardson Road (Firehouse Property)
Council Member Kelso moved to authorize Mayor Moriconi to negotiate the
purchase of the firehouse property located at 4062 Richardson Road from the
Independence Fire District with a maximum purchase offer of $180,000. Council
Member Franzen seconded the motion.
Council Member Cobble put a motion on the floor to table this issue until the
next meeting. The motion died for lack of a second.
Council Member Cobble announced that she would leave the meeting and that the
record should reflect that the Council was now a quorum of five.
Mayor Moriconi directed the Clerk to call the roll. Roll was called and
answered with four ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion
carried 4-1.
Adjournment
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Little. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 10:05 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 1, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 1,
2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The Reverend Eric Bryant of Grace Community Church gave
the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters. Council Member Little
was absent.
Approval of the July 11, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the July 18, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from Council
Member Kelso. One amendment was noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Discussion of City Tax Bill Collection by Kenton County Sheriff Department
Mayor Moriconi introduced Kenton County Sheriff Chuck Korzenborn who was
present with a proposal to bill and collect the city’s property taxes. Mayor
Moriconi presented this idea for discussion and suggested it may be more
convenient for the residents as they will have several locations available for
payment of the tax bill. He stated the deadline for electing the county to
provide this service expired in June; too late for the 2005 tax season, but it
could be effective for the 2006 tax year.
Sheriff Korzenborn distributed a handout of his proposal to the council. The
handout included a copy of KRS 91A.070, a cost comparison, a list of associated
expense savings and a list of advantages that might be realized by having the
Sheriff’s office collect the city taxes. He advised that other city charges
currently on the tax bill would have to be mailed separately as they could only
place ad Valorem taxes on the bill. He suggested the city have Rumpke bill the
residents directly. Mayor Moriconi advised that Rumpke would charge the
residents more to do that. During the discussion the Sheriff’s associate from
the county attorney’s office advised that while they could collect the
delinquent city taxes as part of this proposal, they could not, per KRS,
collect the delinquent trash and sewer assessment charges, but that they would
have the city sign off on any suit before it was dismissed. He stated that
would ensure all other fees charged by the city had been satisfied. Sheriff
Korzenborn advised that the residents would have 35+ locations, some with 7
days per week operating hours, to pay their bill.
When Council Member Cook asked the Sheriff’s fee to collect the city taxes, he
advised his office would take 4.25% of all city tax revenue collected. Mayor
Moriconi asked if a discount period would be offered. Sheriff Korzenborn
replied yes. They advised that tax collection periods would coincide with that
of the county and that the delinquent taxes would be handled the same as the
county taxes and would be sold April 1 of each year with an automatic lien
placed on the property.
Council Member Cook asked if the Sheriff’s office collected any other city
taxes. He replied no, but that he expected other cities would follow suit..
A brief discussion addressed the 4.25% collection rate that is set by KRS and
the comparison figures provided in the Sheriff’s proposal. The proposal used to
calculate collection cost savings was for the tax year of 2003. Council Member
Cobble stated she believed the figures were not accurate since the city had
tightened its tax collection policies. She asked how the tax collections would
be remitted to the city. The Sheriff’s associate advised that the county would
remit, on a monthly basis, to the city the taxes collected along with a detail
report.
Mayor Moriconi commented that since this proposal could not be implemented
until 2006 there was no urgency in acting on this proposal until next May with
a deadline of June 30, 2006. The Sheriff’s associate advised the city should
have the city’s finance director formulate more up to date revenue and expense
analysis to ensure this would be beneficial to everyone.
Proposal to Repeal the Vehicle Sticker Fee Ordinance
Council Member Yeager stated she would like to initiate proceedings to repeal
the Vehicle Sticker Fee effective December 31, 2005. City Attorney, Jed Deters
stated he would prepare an ordinance for the Council’s consideration at the
next meeting, August 15, 2005.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler, Police Chief
No Report.
City Attorney Report – Jed. K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report, but requested that Council hold an
Executive Session to discuss some litigation issues.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated he would like to compliment the residents of the
Glenhurst Subdivision for maintaining a well kept landscape in their community.
Mayor Moriconi also announced that the city would hold a “Clean-Up
Independence” day on September 17, 2005. He urged individuals and organizations
to sign up to volunteer for this event on the city website.
Mayor Moriconi announced the city would hold a Support our Troops Rally on
Sunday, September 11, 2005 at the Memorial Park Amphitheater from 4:00 – 6:00
pm. He stated following this event, there would be a performance by St.
Patrick’s Church “Joyful Noise” choir.
Executive Session
Council Member Cobble moved to enter into an executive session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing pending litigation, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Cobble. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 7:54 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 15, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
15, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent
Kelso, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K.
Deters.
Approval of the August 1, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the August 1, 2005
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from Council
Member Yeager. One amendment was noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
No one signed in to address the Council.
Announcement
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Chief Butler who announced that the Police
Department along with the Citizen’s Police Alumni Association have been invited
to attend the International Police Executive Symposium in ’’’’Prague’,
’’Czechoslovakia’’ during the week of September 3 through September 9, 2005. He
stated that Assistant Chief Dave Nichols will represent the department as well
as a member of the Alumni and they will address the Symposium about the success
of the Citizens Police Academy. He stated the College of Justice and Safety at
Eastern Kentucky University extended the invitation based on a profile written
by Asst. Chief Nichols while attending the School of Strategic Leadership.
Award Bid for Oby Drive Reconstruction
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the City Engineer’s analysis of the five
bids received for the reconstruction of ’’’’Oby Drive’’. He stated the City
Engineer is recommending that the contract for this project be awarded to the
low bidder, JPS Construction in the amount of $132,929.00. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the bid has come in lower than anticipated. He stated this is good
news as it would allow the city to squeeze another project out of the remaining
budgeted funds.
Council Member Kelso moved to award the contract for the reconstruction of Oby
Drive to JPS Construction in the amount of $132,929.00, seconded by Council
Member Franzen. Council Member Cobble asked if the repairs to this street were
part of the 5-year street repair program. Mayor Moriconi replied that it was.
There being no further discussion roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ratify Recommendation from NKAPC to Approve Glenhurst Subdivision State II
Development Plan
Mayor Moriconi presented the correspondence from the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission regarding their recommendation for approval of the Stage II
development plan for Phase H of the Glenhurst Subdivision for an approximate
14-acre area located at the terminus of Hogrefe Road. He advised Council that
the NKAPC staff recommendation needed approval from the city before it becomes
final.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve the Stage II development plan for Phase
H of the Glenhurst Subdivision as recommended by the NKAPC staff; seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Council Member Yeager asked if this Stage II plan
included a first floor brick wrap on the houses. Mr. Greg Berling of Glenhurst
Development LLC responded by stating the homes would only have a brick front,
not a full brick wrap. He advised this section of the subdivision was not an
area being developed by Arlinghaus Builders. He stated this section would
contain the fifty-foot lots. There being no further discussion roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-16 – Authorizing Grant Application Relating to Senior
Citizens/Community Center
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-16 that would
authorize the filing of a community economic growth grant application for
funding up to $235,577.00 for the Independence Senior Citizens and Community
Center Project. Mayor Moriconi explained to Council that the city has been
notified that grant funds are being made available that will assist with
capital debt retirement. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-16.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-
16, seconded by Council Member Kelso. Chief Butler commented that if the city
is awarded the grant it would allow the city to pay off existing debt for this
capital project that is intended for community use. He stated this type of
grant is highly unusual as he has seen few that allow the funding of existing
debt. Council Member Cobble expressed concern that the city might not be
eligible if the city did not match the grants that were received for these
projects. Chief Butler stated that he is not aware of any such condition
associated with this grant. There being no further discussion roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-17 – Authorizing Grant Application Relating to Public
Works Facility Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-17 that would
authorize the filing of a community economic growth grant application for
funding up to $180,000.00 for the Public Works Facility Project. He commented
this grant application is identical to the one for the Senior Citizen’s Center,
but that it would fund the purchase of a facility for the Public Works
Department. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-17.
Council Member Kelso moved to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-17, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-18 – Adopting the National Incident Management System
(NIMS)
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-18 that would adopt
the National Incident Management System. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-
18.
Council Member Cobble moved to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-18, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Chief Butler explained that by adopting this system it
would put into place standard procedures that would be utilized by all agencies
relating to national and local incidents. He stated every employee, as well as
elected city official would receive training in emergency response plans. He
stated the police officers would be certified in advanced training. He stated
that if the city did not comply with this then federal funding would not be
available.
There being no further discussion roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-19 – Supporting a Text Amendment Application Relating to
Recreational Vehicles
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2005-R-19 that would authorize the
application of a text amendment to the zoning ordinance seeking recommendations
on the updating of the requirements for recreational vehicle parking, including
boats, their sizes and weights and also the temporary storage facilities. He
advised that the current language in the zoning ordinance regarding
recreational vehicles is antiquated and does not even address heavy cars and
the use of temporary storage units. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-19.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-19, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. There was a brief discussion wherein Mr. Deters advised
that since the NKAPC has access to broader standards that the city should ask
for their comments that would be more relevant to current standards regarding
trailers, recreational vehicles and temporary storage units. Zoning
Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld commented that the smallest trailer in today’s
market is twenty-eight feet. Council Member Little commented that he concurs
with the outdated language as a new full size pickup truck weights over 6,000
pounds and violates the current ordinance. Council briefly discussed the
definition of PODS, which are temporary storage units.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with five yeahs
and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1
Resolution No. 2005-R-20 – Petitioning the State to Install a Traffic Light on
SR 17
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2005-R-20 that would support the
installation of a traffic light on SR 17 at the intersection with Declaration
Drive and convey this desire and support to the state. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2005-R-20.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-20, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. There was a brief discussion regarding the development
plans in this area, across from the Independence Towne Center. Council Member
Cobble asked developer, Jim Bertram, the time frame for this new development.
Mr. Bertram stated two years. He stated he has currently sold 102 units and has
only one commercial outlot remaining. He stated he plans to begin residential
construction in the spring. He stated the completion date for the connector
road is planned for June 2006 and hope to coincide that with the installation
of the traffic light at that intersection. When asked about the installation of
a deceleration lane, he stated it was a requirement of the development plan and
would be done in conjunction with the Independence Towne Center.
Mayor Moriconi commented that Walgreen’s is planning to construct a store at
this intersection and the installation of a traffic light is a condition of
that plan. Council Member Yeager asked how far this intersection would be from
the intersection with Harris Pike. Mr. Bertram advised that this intersection
is roughly 650 feet from the intersection of Harris Pike and SR 17 and meets
the state requirement. He presented a traffic study for Council’s review. Mayor
Moriconi commented that the addition of a Walgreen’s in the city would be an
economic boost for the city. There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2005-R-20. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Repealing Ordinance No. 2003-O-21 Establishing a Vehicle
Sticker Fee – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would repeal
Ordinance No. 2003-O-21 that established a vehicle sticker fee. There was a
brief discussion to add language to section two of the ordinance that would
make the ordinance effective at midnight on December 31, 2005. Mr. Deters then
read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2005 Real & Personal Property Tax Rates – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a proposed ordinance that would set the
real estate and personal property tax rates for the year 2005. He stated he is
proposing the city adopt the compensating rate which has calculated to be .177
per $100.00 of assessed value. He stated this rate is down from the 2004 rate
of .184/$100 of assessed value. Mayor Moriconi stated he is proposing the
compensating rate and not the compensating rate plus four percent as the
revenue has come in higher than anticipated and that all departments ended the
2004/05 fiscal year under budget totaling $173,000. There being no discussion,
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Council Member Franzen thanked Mayor
Moriconi and the city staff for an efficient job of handling the budget thereby
enabling the city to adopt a lower tax rate. Council Member Yeager also thanked
Terri Hudson, Finance Director for doing a great job. Mayor Moriconi advised
the proposed ordinance and adoption of the tax rates would be placed on the
agenda of the September 12, 2005 council meeting.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler, Police Chief
Chief Butler reported that he attended a construction meeting of the next
section of SR 17 and advised that the work should begin in the near future as
the final phases will be let out for bid. He stated the next phase will
continue to Apple Drive and the second phase will meet with Walton-Nicholson
Pike with completion time scheduled for late 2007.
City Attorney Report – Jed. K. Deters
No report
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated that due to Labor Day on Monday, September 5th that the
next regular meeting of council will be held on September 12, 2005.
Mayor Moriconi announced that the city will hold a Support the Troop Rally on
Sunday, September 11, 2005 from 4-6 pm in Memorial Park. He stated the event
will have entertainment and guest speakers. He encouraged everyone to attend
this event. City Clerk, Patricia Taney reported that the ASA Adopt a Military
Unit Committee has been working hard to plan the Rally as well as solicit
donations for care package items to be sent to the 940th MP Company currently
deployed to Iraq. She stated all funds raised at the Rally will be used to help
defray the cost of shipping the care packages to Iraq.
Mayor Moriconi announced that officials from the Kentucky Transportation
Cabinet will hold a check presentation ceremony on Thursday, August 18th at 11:
30 a.m. at the Memorial Park Amphitheater. He stated the city has been awarded
$159,814 in TEA-21 funds for Renaissance Construction Phase II and that the
funds will be used to construction a section of sidewalks along Madison Pike.
Miscellaneous
Tax Collection by County Sheriff
Council Member Cobble commented regarding Kenton County Sheriff Korzenborn’s
proposal to assume the tax billing and collection for the city at the last
council meeting. She stated she wanted everyone to know that the proposal was
not a done deal and that the city officials would need good information before
considering such a proposal. Council Member Yeager stated the Sheriff used 2003
tax figures. Mayor Moriconi stated as far as he is concerned it is a non-issue
as he became less enthused the more he heard of this proposal
Sewer Lines extending to new School
Council Member Cobble stated she had heard the city sewer lines will be
extended to the new school on Taylor Mill Road. She stated that she believes
there is a city ordinance that mandates a property has to be annexed into the
city before tapping into the city sewer lines. Mr. Deters stated he was not
sure if an ordinance existed. Council Member Cobble stated the city needs to
look into this. Mr. Deters explained the annexation process, both voluntary and
involuntary.
Adjournment
Council Member Kelso made a motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by
Council Member Little. Motion carried and the meeting adjourned at 7:58 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 12, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
12, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Father Jeff Von Lehman from St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent
Kelso, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also
present.
Approval of the August 15, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the August 15,
2005 council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from
Council Member Yeager. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Maura Snyder, 5129 Dana Harvey, Independence, addressed council regarding an
incident that took place last month in the parking lot of the Municipal Center
after the city meeting. She alleged that a verbal exchange took place between
herself and Council Member Cook that ended with Council Member Cook making an
obscene gesture toward her in the presence of her eight-year old son. Ms.
Snyder demanded an apology from Council Member Cook. Council Member Cook
objected to Ms. Snyder’s public attack on her and stated she had no intention
of apologizing to anyone.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-21 – Repealing Ordinance No. 2003-O-21 Establishing a
Vehicle Sticker Fee – 2nd Reading
Mayor presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2005-O-21
repealing Ordinance No. 2003-O-21 which provided for the classifying and
licensing of motor vehicles. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-21, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. There was a brief exchange of comments by Council Members
Cobble and Yeager. Council Member Cobble stated she was glad the sticker fee
would be eliminated as she had opposed any new taxes two years ago, and instead
had proposed $192,000 in budget cuts. She asked Council Member Yeager if she
believed the city had sufficient revenue to operate without this revenue and
wanted assurance that a more heinous tax would not be proposed in the future to
replace this lost revenue. Council Member Yeager replied yes, that this was
discussed at prior meetings; and, how the city departments operated well within
their budgeted funds last year. Mayor Moriconi commented that the former
Finance Director had predicted a gloomy financial picture which, two years ago
prompted the Council to find alternate sources of revenue to balance the
budget.
There being no further discussion, the roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-22 – Adopting 2005 Real Estate & Personal Property Tax
Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2005-O-22
adopting the 2005 real estate and personal property tax rates. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-O-22, seconded by
Council Member Little. Council Member Cobble commented that most of the city’s
property values were reassessed this year and because of that most property
owners would not see a decrease in their property tax bill. She stated the city
could not take credit for lowering the tax rate (from .184/$100 in 2004 to
$.177/$100 in 2005) because the compensating rate is statutorily formulated
using the PVA assessed values. Council Member Kelso stated that the increased
assessed value of a property also increased the actual cash value of the
property for resale. Mayor Moriconi commented that he felt the city could take
credit for lowering the tax rate and attributed this to the city departments
that operated within their budgets. Council Member Little stated that not every
property in the city was reassessed this year, so some property owners will see
a decreased tax bill. He stated the city has been running efficiently and with
the influx of new properties, he sees this as a good sign the city is in better
financial shape than a couple of years ago. Council Member Yeager commented
that she feels the city can also be credited with lowering the tax rate,
because by law the city could have adopted the compensating tax rate plus 4%,
but instead opted to adopt the compensating rate only.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ratify Stage II Development Plan – Meadow Glen Subdivision
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council correspondence from the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission that recommended approval of the Stage II development
plan for an approximate 10.5 acre area located approximately 200 feet south of
the terminus of Meadow Glen Drive (Z-05-08-05/1764R) subject to the conditions
set forth. He stated this recommendation from the Planning Commission needed to
be ratified by the Council before it would be final.
Council Member Cobble moved to approved the Stage II development plan for this
10.5 acre area located at the terminus of Meadow Glen Drive as recommended on
page three of the NKAPC letter dated August 8, 2005 and in compliance with the
conditions set forth. Council Member Yeager seconded the motion. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-21 – Supporting Proposed KRS Amendments Regarding Storm
Water Management
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their consideration, Resolution No.
2005-R-21 which would support proposed changes to KRS Chapter 220 to allow
Sanitation District No. 1 (SD1) to better serve the public by more clearly
integrating storm water management into KRS Chapter 220 and updating sections
that have become outdated as a result of changes within the industry and
clarifying ambiguities. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-21.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-21, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Franzen asked
if this related in any way with the pending lawsuit against SD1. Mr. Deters
replied possibly and suggested attorney, Chris Mehling could discuss this with
the council in executive session later in this meeting. Council Member Kelso
expressed concerns about supporting this legislation. Mr. Deters suggested that
council table this agenda item until after the executive session.
Council Members Little and Cobble withdrew their motion and second to adopt
Resolution No. 2005-R-21 from the floor,
Council Member Kelso moved to table Resolution No. 2005-R-21, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. Roll call was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-22 – Supporting Opposition to Senate Bill 1504 relating
to the Broadband Investment & Consumer Choice Act
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration, Resolution No.
2005-R-22 that expresses opposition of Senate Bill 1504 known as the “Broadband
Investment and Consumer Choice Act”. This Bill introduced by U.S. Senators John
Ensign and John McCain would preempt all local authority over the provision of
cable and video services within the community, including the ability of the
local government to provide appropriate oversight to entities conducting
business within their jurisdiction and in the local public rights-of-way. Mr.
Deters read the proposed Resolution.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-22, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Moriconi and Council
Member Cobble conveyed they had spoken to Tim Broering of the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky about this Bill. Council Member
Cobble stated that this proposed legislation would basically eliminate the
“home-rule” and local control of cable services. She stated that Mr. Broering
has advised he will attempt to get the city more information. Council Member
Kelso stated he would not vote to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-22 as he would
like information on the other side of this issue. Council Member Cobble stated
she would like the pros and cons of any issue to make a vote. He stated the
Resolution makes a strong argument opposing the Bill but he would like to see
the defense for the Bill.
Council Member Kelso moved to table this issue until such time council has the
information for both sides of the argument, seconded by Council Member Cobble.
Roll call vote was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Moriconi advised council that Tim Broering of the Telecommunications
Board has stated he would be glad to attend a council meeting to discuss this
issue.
Police Chief Report – Dave Nichols, Assistant Police Chief
Assistant Chief Dave Nichols gave a report on his trip to Prague,
Czechoslovakia where he attended the International Police Executive Symposium,
along with Tom Brinker, President of the Independence Citizens Police Academy
Alumni. He stated while there, they presented a report on the Independence
community programs, such as the Citizens Police Academy and Volunteers in
Policing (VIPS). He stated this program’s funding was supported 100% by Eastern
Kentucky University’’ with the Citizens Police Alumni Association funding
additional expenses. He stated this was a positive experience for the city and
a rewarding one for him and Mr. Brinker.
City Attorney Report – Jed. K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised council that citizen questions has arisen involving the
relocation and rededication of a dedicated right of way on Far Hills Drive and
he would like council‘s authorization to refer this on to the city engineer for
review and comment. He stated the dedicated right of way runs through two lots,
but a street was never built and the proposal would be to cut it off at the end
of one of the lots not improved on and redirecting it in another direction. Mr.
Deters stated he is not sure if this proposal would be beneficial to the city
to have that right of way continuing on as it currently does. Mayor Moriconi
asked if council would have to approve a change. Mr. Deters replied yes, as it
will involve a street closing and a rededication of a new right of way if done
as proposed. Council Member Yeager commented there are a lot of changes going
on in that area. Again Mr. Deters advised he did not want to send the engineer
to review this proposal, thereby incurring expenses without council’s knowledge
and approval. No one voiced objection to this proposal.
Mr. Deters distributed the (NKAPC) Planning Commission’s initial draft of a
retirement community development regulations per the resolution the city
submitted asking them to propose some language for this new zone as a text
amendment to the current city zoning ordinance. Mr. Deters asked everyone to
review the document and submit any comments/suggestions so that he can get back
with the planning commission. He stated there is no deadline, but the Planning
Commission is waiting for the city’s comment. Mayor Moriconi asked council to
submit their comments to Mr. Deters within ten-fourteen days. Council Member
Kelso asked if this proposed text amendment had been sent to Mr. Jim Kudera,
the developer of the proposed retirement community. Mr. Deters stated he asked
the Planning Commission representative if it had been sent to Mr. Kudera and
they replied that it had not, as they felt it would be more appropriate if the
draft would be presented to the city for first review. Council Member Kelso
asked that Mr. Kudera be given a copy to review. Mr. Deters stated he would get
a copy to Mr. Kudera.
Mr. Deters also submitted a couple of court pleadings, one filed by Kenton
County and the other filed by the city in the lawsuit involving the maintenance
of the county roads that run within the city limits.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported the Support the Troops Rally was held Sunday, September
11, 2005. He stated the Rally drew a large turnout and General Donald C. Storm,
flew in to address the crowd. He thanked all the volunteers who worked to make
the Rally a success.
Mayor Moriconi also announced that the “Clean-Up Independence” day is Saturday,
September 17, 2005. He stated all volunteers should meet in Memorial Park at 9:
00 a.m.. He stated each volunteer will be given a t-shirt and a pizza lunch
will be provided at 11:30. He stated that so far the volunteer response has
been great, but they will need even more volunteers to show up on Saturday.
Miscellaneous
Hurricane Katrina Relief
Council Member Kelso advised he has been working with Mr. Marty Neltner and
Council Members Franzen, Little and Yeager on Operation Adoption Rescue for the
Katrina Hurricane Disaster. He stated he would like to see the city take a more
formal stance in this project and would like something submitted for the next
meeting.
Mayor Moriconi agreed that would be a good idea and Mr. Deters stated he would
draft something for council’s consideration.
Annexation Requirement Prior to the Tap In to City Sewer System
Council Member Cobble thanked Mr. Deters for his memo detailing his research
into the annexation requirement prior to tapping into the city sewer system.
She suggested the three Kenton County Schools that are currently not in the
city limits, be annexed before they tap into city sewers. Mayor Moriconi stated
he has discussed this issue with Dr. Cook of the Kenton County School District.
Mr. Deters advised he would check into the contiguous requirement and would try
to have a viability report prepared by next Monday’s meeting.
Sewer Maintenance Fund
Council Member Cobble stated she would like council to begin preliminary
discussions on the best way to expend the sewer maintenance fund balance.
Council Member Yeager commented that Production Drive is collapsing. Mayor
Moriconi concurred and advised that the major sink holes are due to the failing
storm water sewer.
Annual Audit
Council Member Cobble commented when the audit is complete she would like to
get the report prior to the auditor making a presentation before the council.
Executive Session
Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing two pending litigation issue,
seconded by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes. Council
entered the executive session at 8:01 pm.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and council
reconvened the regular session at 9:23 p.m.
Resolution No. 2005-R-21 – Supporting Proposed KRS Amendments Regarding Storm
Water Management
Motion was made by Council Member Cobble and seconded by Council Member Franzen
to remove Resolution No. 2005-R-21 from the table. Roll was called and answered
with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Kelso. Motion carried 5-1
Council Member Cobble made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-21,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with five ayes
and one no vote cast by Council Member Kelso. Council Member Kelso clarified
his vote by stating that he has not heard both sides of the argument for this
issue. Motion carried 5-1
Adjournment
There being no further business before council, Council Member Franzen made a
motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by Council Member Little. Motion
carried and the meeting adjourned at 9:25 p.m.
                     ________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 19, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
19, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent
Kelso, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also
present.
Approval of the September 12, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September 12,
2005 council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from
Council Member Kelso. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered with
five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried 5-1.
Council Member Cook stated that the statements made by Mrs. Maura Snyder at the
September 12, 2005 council meeting were inaccurate in all aspects. She went on
to say that Mayor Moriconi should have enforced several sections of Robert’s
Rules of Order, specifically Sections 5.1(c) (e) and 5.4. Council Member Cook
also asserted that a Council Member made inflammatory remarks that were also in
violation of Robert’s Rules of Order. She stated the Council spent a lot of
time reviewing these Rules of Order before adopting them and they need to be
adhered to or thrown out the door. Mayor Moriconi responded that Robert’s Rules
of Order, as he understands it, is applied to personal attacks and he did not
hear any personal attacks. He stated Mrs. Snyder asked for an apology three
times and he did not interpret that as an attack, just a request for an
apology. Council Member Cook stated he should read the Robert’s Rules of Order.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the Rules would not permit a person to ask for an
apology. Council Member Cook maintained Mrs. Snyder’s request for an apology
was a personal attack which had absolutely nothing to do with the business of
the Council at that meeting.
Privileges of the Floor
No one signed in to address Council.
Request for City to Sponsor a Zoning Text Amendment Application Relating to
Fences
Mr. Craig Hadley, 5720 Cody Road, addressed Council with a request for the city
to sponsor a zoning text amendment application relating to fence regulations.
He stated that the language in the current zoning ordinance does not permit
fences to be erected in a front yard. He stated that his property is located at
the corner of Cody Road and Independence Station Road and that he has lived
there for five years. He stated he recently acquired a section of land from
Kenton County along Cody Road. Mr. Hadley stated he has a lake in his front
yard and for safety reasons would like to install a fence along the Cody Road
side of his property. He said he has to carry extra liability insurance as the
lake attracts kids that want to fish in the lake. Mr. Hadley distributed photos
of his property. He stated he worked with the staff at the NKAPC (Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission) to draft zoning text that would allow a
class 4 fence to be installed, for security purposes, on property that has a
minimum one acre body of water.
There was a brief exchange of comments. Mr. Deters stated he could draft a
resolution to present to Council at the October 3rd meeting that would support
this zoning text amendment application to the Kenton County Planning Commission
so they can officially comment on this request.
Council Member Cobble moved to support the text amendment application, seconded
by Council Member Kelso. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Request for City to Sponsor a Map Amendment Application by Bill Toebben for
Property Located at 5490 Madison Pike
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Bill Toebben who was present to request the city
act as applicant for a map amendment for twenty-five acres located at the
northwest, northeast and southwest corners of SR 17 and Harris Pike. Mr.
Toebben stated the northeast corner is currently zoned for multi-family
residential and the northwest corner is zoned residential. He stated the
southwest corner is part commercial, part residential. Mr. Toebben stated only
about 20 acres will be usable as the rest will be state highway right-of-way,
detention areas, etc. He stated if he was the applicant, the Planning
Commission would require a Stage I development plan be submitted with the
application. He stated the city, as the applicant, is not required to submit a
development plan. Mr. Toebben stated he is making this request as he needs a
zone in place in order to attract potential users to this property. Otherwise
he would have to make a best guess for potentials users. He stated once the
commercial zone is in place on all three corners, when a development plan is
decided on, it would be submitted directly to the city for approval.
A discussion ensued. Council Member Cobble commented that she agreed that the
entire site should be zoned commercial, but questioned if the city had been the
applicant in the past, as the city attorney usually advises Council not to
comment on a map amendment prior to a recommendation from the NKAPC lest the
process be contaminated. Mr. Deters stated the city could make the application
but generally the property owner applies for the map amendment as it could
later pose a problem for the city if they support/sponsor the application.
Council Member Kelso stated that a clear message from the city’s Vision
Committee is the need for a master plan with regard to zoning. He stated he
feels the city should be proactive in planning for economic development.
Council Member Yeager stated she has no problem rezoning the site to
commercial, but feels apprehensive at the City being the applicant for this map
amendment. Council Member Little stated he agreed the city had a definite need
for more commercial retail space and understands the marketability of it to
potential developers.
Mr. Deters questioned the lose of control by the city on the development of
this property without a development plan being submitted with the map amendment
application. Mr. Toebben stated he feels the city would still have control as
the site plan would be submitted directly to the city for approval instead of
going through the Planning Commission. Mr. Deters advised that once the zone
change is effected, the city would lose controls that might otherwise be
available to them.
Council Member Franzen asked if the city could predispose the process by
applying for the map amendment. Mr. Deters stated he thinks so, especially if
the city does not approve the zone change recommendation by the Kenton County
Planning Commission.
Council Member Kelso made a motion to support Mr. Toebben’s request for the
city to be the applicant for the map amendment, seconded by Council Member
Cobble. Council Member Yeager commented that the city would be opening the door
by doing this. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Council Member Cobble asked if Mr. Toebben would be responsible for all fees
related to the application. Mayor Moriconi replied yes.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler reported that the Crowe Road slippage has been shored up and that
the piering is complete.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters reported that to date he has not received any feedback from anyone
regarding the proposed zoning text amendment relating to the addition of a
retirement community zone. Council Member Cobble asked if this text would add a
new zone. Mr. Deters stated yes along with the regulations to accompany the new
zone. Council Member Yeager stated she needs some additional time to review the
proposed language.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Business of the Month for October
Mayor Moriconi advised that Council Member Cobble would select the recipient
for the Business of the Month award in October. Council Member Cobble stated
she has selected Universal Underwriters Insurance Company owned by John
Hamilton.
Clean-Up Independence Day
Mayor Moriconi reported that the Clean-Up Independence day produced a good turn
out of citizens who volunteered to clean up the right-of way along SR 536. He
stated that the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky (TBNK) filmed the
event. Mayor Moriconi advised he would like to make this a bi-annual event each
spring and fall.
Comments on 2005 Property Tax Rates
Mayor Moriconi stated that he would like to respond to the discussion that took
place at the last council meeting regarding the 2005 property tax rates. He
stated that he feels that Council Member Cobble’s statement that he and Council
had nothing to do with lowering the tax rate is inaccurate. Mayor Moriconi
commented this is not about who gets credit for lowering the tax rate but
asserted that much effort has been put forth which has contributed to being in
a position to adopt a lower tax rate for 2005. He stated he has merged city
positions in the last few years which has saved the city money. He also thanked
the city staff for continuing to find ways to save money and the city’ s
Finance Director for effective management of the city funds.
Council Member Cobble countered that since the compensating rate is statutorily
formulated using the state office property assessment values the rate would
have been .177 regardless of the city’s cost saving efforts. She stated she
commends everyone for the role they played in recent cost saving measures, but
reiterated it had no effect on the calculation of the tax rates. Council Member
Franzen stated she disagreed with Council Member Cobble, also asserting that
the Council had everything to do with not adopting a compensating rate plus the
additional 4% which is allowable by law. She stated the city adopting just the
compensating rate and not the additional 4% was a win-win for the residents.
Support the Troops Rally
Mayor Moriconi advised the TBNK filmed the Support the Troops Rally that was
held at the Memorial Park Amphitheater on September 11 and it will be televised
on cable several times over the coming weeks.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Kelso reported that the Vision Committee has recently held two
meetings, one with the Home Builders Association and one with the city
employees. He stated the committee consists of 20-25 citizens. He stated the
committee will meet with the Citizens Police Academy Alumni Association
tomorrow. He advised the open meeting with all interested residents will be
held on November 7, 2005 at 5:30 p.m., probably at the Senior Center.
Adjournment
There being no further business before council, Council Member Cobble made a
motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by Council Member Little. Motion
carried and the meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 3, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
3, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Rev. Johnny Lewis of the Fellowship of Mercy
Church provided the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike
Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member Kent Kelso was absent. City Attorney,
Jed K. Deters was also present.
Business of the Month Recognition
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Cobble had selected Universal
Underwriters as the recipient of the Business of the Month. He presented a
plaque of recognition to proprietor, John Hamilton.
Approval of the September 19, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September 19,
2005 council meeting. Council Member Little so moved with a second from Council
Member Cobble. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Privileges of the Floor
No one signed in to address Council.
Resolution No. 2005-R-22 – Opposing Senate Bill 1504 Known as “Broadband
Investment & Consumer Choice Act”
Mayor Moriconi presented to council for their consideration, Resolution No.
2005-R-22 which would support the opposition of Senate Bill 1504 known as the
Broadband Investment & Consumer Choice Act. He reminded Council that this
Resolution was tabled at the September 12, 2005 meeting to give them time to
research the pros and cons of this issue. Mayor Moriconi introduced Tim
Broering, Executive Director of the Telecommunications Board of Northern
Kentucky (TBNK) who was present to answer any questions Council may have about
this bill. A brief discussion ensued wherein Mr. Broering explained that U.S.
Senator John McCain’s bill (S. 1504) known as the Broadband Investment and
Consumer Choice Act would strip local government of imposing local franchise
fees and control of the rights of way. He stated that the Kentucky League of
Cities and National League of Cities have voiced their opposition to this bill.
Council Member Cobble commented that she would like this issue remain tabled
until Council Member Kelso was present to comment. Mayor Moriconi stated he had
no objections. Council Member Yeager stated that Council Member Kelso received
all the research information on this issue, as did all the Council Members.
Mayor Moriconi, hearing no support to keep the issue tabled, directed Mr.
Deters to read Resolution No. 2005-R-22. Council Member Cobble commented that
the issue should first be removed from the table. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to remove Resolution No. 2005-R-22 from the table, seconded by Council
Member Yeager. No roll called, motion carried with all ayes.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-22. Council Member Franzen moved to
approve Resolution No. 2005-R-22, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Council
Member Cobble commented that she has contacted the offices of Senator McConnell
and Senator Bunning and was advised that they have taken no position yet on
this issue. There being no further discussion, roll was called and was answered
with four ayes and one pass vote cast by Council Member Cobble. Motion passed.
Resolution No. 2005-R-23 – Supporting the Sponsorship of a Zoning Text
Amendment Relating to Fences
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2005-R-23 that would support
the application for a zoning text amendment to Article XIII, Section 13.3 (A.1)
to provide for fencing around bodies of water in residential zones. Mr. Deters
read Resolution No. 2005-R-23.
Council Member Yeager moved to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-23, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. There was a brief discussion regarding the proposed
language. Mr. Deters advised Council to proceed with the text amendment
application and when the recommendation is received from the KCPC that would be
the time to make revisions before final adoption. There being no further
discussion, the roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
Ratify Recommendation from NKAPC to Approve Stage II Development Plan for 10.6
Acres of the Southwest Intersection of Meadow Glen Drive and Independence
Station Road (Z-05-09-08/1776R
Mayor Moriconi presented the correspondence from the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission regarding their recommendation for approval of the Stage II
development plan for 10.6 acres of the southwest intersection of Meadow Glen
Drive and Independence Station Road. He advised Council that the NKAPC staff
recommendation needed approval from the city before it becomes final.
Council Member Cobble moved to approve the Stage II development plan as
recommended by the NKAPC staff and subject to the conditions; seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried
5-0.
Ratify Recommendation from NKAPC to Approve Stage II Development Plan for 27
Acres located along the East side of Madison Pike Between Harris Road and
Walnut Hall Drive (Z-05-07-04/1753R
Mayor Moriconi presented the correspondence from the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission regarding their recommendation for approval of the Stage II
development plan for 27 acres along the east side of Madison Pike between
Harris Road and Walnut Hall Drive. He stated that this recommendation needed to
be ratified by the city before becoming final.
Council Member Franzen moved to accept the staff recommendation of the NKAPC to
approve the Stage II development plan, seconded by Council Member Yeager.
Council Member Cobble stated that conditions on page four should be included.
Council Member Franzen amended her motion to include the conditions. Roll was
called and answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
Police Chief Report – ––Shawn Butler–
Chief Butler reported the city is in receipt of a letter of recommendation
forwarded to the Governor’s Office regarding the grants the city has applied
for the debt retirement of the Senior Center and the Public Works Facility.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report, but requested an executive session
be called to discuss pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Executive Session
Council Member Yeager moved to enter into an executive session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing litigation issues, seconded
by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes. Council entered the
executive session at 7:26 pm.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and council
reconvened the regular session at 9:01 p.m.
Adjournment
There being no further business before council, Council Member Franzen made a
motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by Council Member Little. Motion
carried and the meeting adjourned at 9:02 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 17, 2005
The OCTOBER 17, 2005 CITY COUNCIL MEETING Was CANCELLED Due to Lack of Business
ATTEST: ___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 7, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
7, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent
Kelso, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also
present.
Approval of the October 3, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the October 3,
2005 council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from
Council Member Cobble. One amendment was noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Introduction of New Public Services Director
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Gary Cooper as the newly hired Public Services
Director. He stated Mr. Cooper began employment with the city on October 31st
and will oversee public works, building and zoning employees. Mr. Cooper
thanked the Mayor and Council for the opportunity to serve the citizens of
Independence.
Privileges of the Floor
Tom Schoborg, 49 Walnut Hall Drive, informed Council that he has heard rumors
that Walnut Hall Drive will be extended to connect with the adjoining new
development. He asked if the city was aware of this. Mayor Moriconi stated he
asked the developer and was told “absolutely not”. He stated he would ask
again. Council Member Cobble commented she did not recall seeing an extension
of Walnut Hall Drive on the Stage 1 development plan for the Independence
Village. She stated it was possible that sewer lines would be extended to
Walnut Hall Drive Mr. Deters advised that in order for the developer to extend
the street it would be necessary to acquire right-of-way (private property).
William E. Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, addressed Council regarding the proposed
zoning text amendment, specifically Section 9.23(d) relating to the parking/
keeping of recreational vehicles. He stated he feels the section should remain
intact and, if anything, strengthened. He expressed concern to increasing the
permitted length of an RV from 20 feet to 39 feet. He stated that 39 feet is
three-fourths as long as a semi-tractor trailer. He urged Council not to impose
these larger vehicles on the citizens of Independence.
Donna Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, addressed Council with a request to provide
more ‘open time’ for the audience to provide input at the meetings prior to
voting on issues. Mayor Moriconi replied that he often calls on audience
members with raised hands, allowing them to comment. Mr. Deters advised that
council meetings are open for public viewing, they are not a public forum and
that ‘privileges of the floor’ is designed to allow for public comment. He
stated that the time to address the Council regarding proposed legislation is
prior to the second reading of an ordinance.
Ed Smith, 1177 Constitution Drive, addressed Council with a zoning complaint.
He stated that the entrance to his subdivision (Independence Pointe) has gone
uncut since late August/early September. Council Member Cobble commented that
this is a repeated violation by the developer and recalled the city adopted an
ordinance that would permit the Building Inspector to withhold issuance of
future building permits when outstanding violations exist. Mayor Moriconi
advised that since Independence Pointe was built-out, he would inquire if this
developer was building elsewhere in the city and if so, check the possibility
of withholding permits until the grass cutting violation is resolved.
OLD BUSINESS
Status Report Regarding the Cingular Cell Tower Proposal at Sterling Staggs
Park
Mayor Moriconi reported that Cingular representatives have completed the site
review for the proposed cell tower location in Staggs Park and have reported
the sanitary sewer lateral line cannot be located without actually digging or
acquiring as-built drawings. The City Clerk reported that she has contacted the
city engineer to conduct a site review on the city’s behalf and report back to
Council with their findings, either confirming or rejecting Cingular’s report.
She stated that Cingular will need Council’s final approval of the proposed
site before proceeding with lease negotiations.
Mr. Deters commented that the underlying question is whether the city is
satisfied with the proposed location and if so, then the cell tower could
probably be constructed around it. Council Members Cobble and Cook stated they
were in favor of the site. Council Member Yeager commented that she would only
agree to this location if the equipment was installed underground and they did
not install a fence around the area. Mr. Deters reminded Council that Cingular
has advised they cannot use underground utilities for this type tower.
Mayor Moriconi advised he would request that Mr. Tim Sturm attend the December
5, 2005 meeting to wrap-up discussions of the site location. He advised Council
to be prepared with their questions of Mr. Sturm.
Audience member, Mr. Bill Cobble commented that he feels this is a great
opportunity for the city to finance the operation of the city parks with the
revenue that would be generated by leasing this property.
Discussion Relating to Proposed Zoning Text Amendment Regarding Recreation
Vehicles
Mayor Moriconi introduced discussion regarding a possible text amendment of
Section 9.23(d) of the city’s Zoning Ordinance which regulates the parking and/
or storing of recreational vehicles. He stated the current text is antiquated
and it has been suggested the city review this for possible amendments
regarding the length and weight of recreational vehicles. Mayor Moriconi also
stated that regulations need to be established for portable storage units
(PODS), which are becoming commonplace. He stated the purpose of the text
amendment would be to strengthen, not weaken the ordinance, by adopting
regulations that would accommodate current standards. Mayor Moriconi yielded
the floor to Annie Wuestefeld, Zoning Administrator for further explanation and
to answer questions from the Council and audience. A lengthy discussion took
place between the audience, council members and Mrs. Wuestefeld, which resulted
in several people (including Council Members Franzen and Little) volunteering
to sit on a committee to review Section 9.23(d) and present to the full Council
a proposed text amendment that would be practical for this community. Mayor
Moriconi requested they address the issue of establishing regulations for PODS
also.
NEW BUSINESS
Request by Sam and Sharon Beach and Jerry Sanders for the Waiver of Subdivision
Regulations for the Extension of McKim Drive
Mayor Moriconi stated the next item of business was a request by Sam and Sharon
Beach and Jerry Sanders for a waiver of subdivision regulations for the
extension of McKim Drive. Mayor Moriconi asked Mrs. Wuestefeld why this was
necessary. Mrs. Wuestefeld stated that the Beachs’ and Sanders’ want to build
homes at the dead end section of ’’’’McKim Drive’’ and in order to make the
lots buildable the road will have to be extended by twenty feet. She stated the
road would have to be constructed to current subdivision regulations which
would require curbs, gutters and sidewalks. She stated that since McKim is an
older city street that does not have these modern features it would be unfair
to enforce current street construction regulations. Mrs. Wuestefeld stated that
the Council has the authority to waive this regulation and allow them to build
the new section of roadway to like conditions of the existing portion of McKim
Drive. She stated that if the Council does not waive this regulation, then the
Planning Commission will enforce the subdivision regulations.
After a brief discussion, Council Member Kelso moved to waive the subdivision
regulations relating to the construction of the extension of McKim Drive as
requested by the Beachs’ and Sanders’; seconded by Council Member Franzen.
Prior to the vote, there was a brief discussion regarding the placement of a
sidewalk lien in the event that McKim Drive received major street improvements
in the future. Mr. Deters advised the lien would not be enforced until such
time, if ever, that the street would be reconstructed to meet current
subdivision regulations. Council Member Kelso amended his motion to include
requesting a sidewalk lien be filed as a condition of the waiver being granted
by the city. There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-02 – Approving Mayoral Appointment of Phyllis
Vetter to the Board of Ethics/Code Enforcement Board
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-02 that would
approve his appointment of Phyllis Vetter to the Board of Ethics/Code
Enforcement Board. Council Member Franzen moved to approve Municipal Order No.
2005-MO-02; seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered
with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Margaret Cook. Motion
carried 5-1.
Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-03 – Approving Mayoral Appointment of Dave Millward
to the Senior Board of Directors
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-03 that would
approve his appointment of Dave Millward to the Senior Board of Directors.
Council Member Little moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-03; seconded
by Council Member Kelso. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Margaret Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Compensation for Elected City Officials – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
set the compensation of the elected officials beginning January 2007. Mr.
Deters read the proposed ordinance. A lengthy discussion ensued. Council Member
Cobble questioned which Council Member was sponsoring this ordinance and also
expressed concerns about the attached salary comparison with other third-class
cities. She stated she felt other factors should be taken into consideration.
She stated she was absolutely opposed to approving an increase and was not
motivated to be in this position for the monetary compensation. Council Member
Franzen commented that she feels the compensation for the Mayor position should
be increased as it requires a lot of time. She stated she didn’t have a problem
if an increase for the council members was excluded, because the position is
not as time consuming as that of the mayor. Council Member Yeager concurred.
Council Member Little commented that the proposed increases were based on
averages of other third-class cities in the state. Council Cobble also
expressed concern about sufficient funds to handle these salary increases in
light of the fact the city recently eliminated three revenue items from the
budget. Council Member Little stated the ordinance would not be effective until
January 2007. Council Member Franzen commented that taxes would not have to be
increased to cover the additional compensation to the elected officials.
Mayor Moriconi advised the proposed ordinance would be presented for a second
reading at the December 5th meeting.
Police Chief Report – Dave Nichols, Assistant Chief
Assistant Chief Nichols reported that the department has received a grant from
the Kentucky League of Cities for $2,500 for the purchase of safety related
equipment.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Christmas Walk – Mayor Moriconi stated the annual Christmas Walk would be held
on Friday, December 2, 2005 from 7-9 pm in the downtown area.
Computer Recycling – Mayor Moriconi reported that the Sanitation District would
hold a computer recycling event on Saturday, November 19, 2005
Business of the Month – Mayor Moriconi stated the December recipient for the
Business of the Month recognition would be selected by Council Member Cook.
Council Member Cook stated she had a business in mind, but would like to speak
with them first, and then she would let the City Clerk know who she has
selected.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Franzen suggested a proposed ordinance that would require
screening around dumpsters in retail/commercial areas. She stated she feels
this would resolve the open area behind the Cherokee shopping center which has
caused many complaints by the neighbors. Council Member Cobble stated that
existing businesses would be ‘grandfathered’ thereby exempting them from the
requirement. Mayor Moriconi suggested Council Member Franzen discuss her
suggestion with the Zoning Administrator.
Council Member Kelso announced that the Vision Committee will hold a Town Hall
meeting on Tuesday, December 6, 2005 at the new auditorium in Simon Kenton High
School from 7-9 p.m. He stated this meeting is an open invitation to the
general public and will be an opportunity for the citizens to provide the
Committee input on their personal visions for the city over the next 10-20
years.
Council Member Kelso also announced that NKU will hold a large Veterans Day
commemoration on Friday, November 11, 2005 at 11:00 a.m. He stated Congressman
Davis would be the guest speaker.
Council Member Cobble asked about the status of the county road issue,
specifically the proposal the county made to the city regarding road
maintenance. Mayor Moriconi advised he signed the normal snow removal contract
as has been done in previous years, but that there has been no decision
regarding the county’s proposal to maintain the county roads in the city limits
at a cost of $3,024 per mile. Council Member Cobble stated she feels the city
needs to decide one way or the other and put closure to this issue. Mr. Deters
advised putting the issue on the December 5th agenda. Mayor Moriconi concurred.
Adjournment
There being no further business before council, Council Member Kelso made a
motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by Council Member Yeager. Motion
carried and the meeting adjourned at 8:42 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 21, 2005
The NOVEMBER 21, 2005 CITY COUNCIL MEETING Was CANCELLED Due to Lack of
Business
ATTEST: ___________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 5, 2005
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
5, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Father Paul Berscheid of St. Cecilia Catholic
Church gave the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Mike Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Business of the Month Recognition - Harney’s Service Center – Charlene Harney,
Proprietor
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Cook had chosen Harney’s
’’’’Service’ ’’Center’’ as the recipient of the Business of the Month for
December. He presented a plaque of recognition to the owner, Charlene Harney.
Approval of the November 7, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the November 7,
2005 council meeting. Council Member Cobble so moved with a second from Council
Member Franzen. There being no amendments; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2005-R-25 - Discussion Regarding Sexually Oriented Businesses –
––––Kenton– ––County–– Attorney, Garry Edmondson
Mayor Moriconi introduced Kenton County Attorney Garry Edmondson who was
present to address the Council regarding the status of the Sexually Oriented
Businesses study. Mr. Edmondson reported that the first phase of the study was
complete. He stated the next phase would be to determine where to locate these
zones per K.R.S. Mr. Edmondson recommended that the city agree to ask Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission to provide further review and make
recommendations to this relative to the appropriate zoning within the city
relating to sexually oriented businesses. He presented a Resolution to Council
that would make this request of NKAPC. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2005-R-
25. Motion was made by Council Member Yeager, seconded by Council Member
Franzen to approve Resolution No. 2005-R-25. Roll call was answered with all
ayes and the motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
William E. Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, Independence, Ky. – addressed council
regarding the proposed ordinance to increase the compensation for the elected
city officials. He stated the proposed compensation seems high to him, but
would not object to an increase equivalent to the social security raise that
will take effect in January 2006.
Lisa Placke, 112 McCullum Road, Independence, Ky. – addressed council regarding
the proposed ordinance to increase the compensation for the elected city
officials. Ms. Placke expressed concern where the dollars would come from to
provide this additional compensation to the elected officials, especially
considering the recent cuts in revenue. She urged Council to choose wisely and
consider the standard cost of living increase.
Charles Adams, 10732 Lakefront Circle, Independence, Ky. – Requested that the
city install street lights on Delaware Crossing. He stated he feels this is a
safety issue since this road has sidewalks and is access to an apartment
complex and condos and many drivers use it as a thoroughfare. Mayor Moriconi
advised he would look into this concern.
Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, Independence, Ky. – addressed council regarding
the proposed ordinance to increase the compensation for the elected city
officials. He voiced several reasons why he felt the compensation should not be
increased at a rate higher than a cost of living adjustment.
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, Independence, Ky. – addressed council regarding
the proposed ordinance to increase the compensation for the elected city
officials. He stated he feels that an increase of 2-1/2 times the current
compensation is too much. Mr. Nienaber also commented on the 2005 property tax
rate adopted by the city. He stated that he disagrees with assertions that the
tax rate was lowered due to the adoption of the compensation rate, as the
compensation rate is based on a calculation formula which is regulated by state
law.
Blanche Bedell, 6402 Jimae Court, Independence, Ky. – commented that two years
ago the city was stating it was going broke and she now feels the city is going
“hog-wild” by proposing increased compensation for the elected officials. She
urged the council to think of the citizens that have elected them to office.
Alan Evans, 8945 Julia Meadow, Independence, Ky. – Voiced his opposition to
increasing the compensation for the elected officials higher than a cost of
living increase. He stated he feels elected office is a position of part-time
community involvement and that it was self-serving to increase their
compensation.
Rita King, 32 Roselawn Drive, Independence, Ky. – addressed council regarding
the proposed cell tower site in the ––––Sterling– ––Staggs– ––Park––. She
stated she is the President of the Independence Soccer Club and that 2500
children use the fields at the park each year. She stated she feels the revenue
that would be generated by leasing space to the cell tower company would not be
worth the risk a tower would pose.
Dave Rabe, 529 Independence Station Road, Independence, Ky. – voiced his
concern regarding the proposed increase of compensation for the city officials.
He stated that he feels five-percent would be adequate and the same amount
given to the city employees.
OLD BUSINESS:
Status Report Regarding the Cingular Cell Tower Proposal at Sterling Staggs
Park by Tim Sturm of Burgess & Niple
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Tim Sturm from Burgess & Niple who was present to
provide a status report regarding Cingular’s proposal to lease space for a cell
tower in Sterling Staggs Park. Mayor Moriconi commented that the main issue
before the city is whether or not to proceed with this proposal. He stated
there is concern that sewer lines are in the vicinity of the proposed site.
Mr. Sturm reported that after approaching the city and agreeing on an
appropriate site, they have conducted a basic study and are not able to find
sewer utilities in the area. He stated the lease area would be 50x50 feet
instead of the usual 100x100 feet, the building would be 20x11 feet and
Cingular has agreed to forego the installation of a fence around the structure
as requested by the city. There was a brief discussion between Council Member
Yeager, plumber Dave Arlinghaus and Mr. Sturm regarding sewer lines in the
area. Mr. Arlinghaus stated he installed sewer lines which run under the sand
volleyball court and exits along Sylvan Drive. Council Member Yeager stated she
also feels the cell tower would take up a lot of space and ruin the look of the
park. She stated she also wanted the tower equipment buried. Mr. Sturm stated
Cingular has a policy that they will not install their equipment underground.
Council Member Cobble and Council Member Cook made an announcement that they
have a vision to mark the 25th anniversary of the Simon Kenton High School
tragedy that killed one student at the school by having a glazed ceramic
memorial drawn on the cell tower equipment structure to camouflage the
building. Council Member Cobble stated she has discussed this vision with Mr.
Sturm who has agreed to permit this. Council Member Cook stated donations would
be sought to put up the ceramic memorial with a bronze plaque. She stated the
cell tower would be a great revenue source for the maintenance of the city
parks. Council Member Cobble stated she has spoken to school representatives
and after having done that, feels confident that the cell tower would not
present a health hazard to children. Council Member Yeager commented that
Memorial Park was so named to have all memorials at that park.
Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Sturm why they did not approach private
resident owners for lease space. Mr. Sturm said they prefer to lease municipal
property as local government is generally looking for revenue sources. Council
Member Franzen stated she received 31 e-mail messages from citizens opposing
the installation of a cell tower in the park. She stated she has to consider
more than the possible revenue that would be generated.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to move forward with the proposal by
Cingular Wireless to lease a 50x50 square foot parcel at the current site in
Sterling Staggs Park. Council Member Cook seconded the motion. Council Member
Little stated he has received 15 e-mail messages from concerned parents that
oppose a cell tower in the park. Council Member Cobble stated she only received
one objection, but many more that were in favor of it. Roll was called and
answered with four no votes cast by Council Members Franzen, Kelso, Little and
Yeager and two yes votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion failed
4-2.
Council Member Kelso stated that he believes that the citizens did not have
correct information and that he voted against the cell tower proposal because
he disagrees with a cell tower. He stated he does not have concerns about
radiation, but was concerned about the effects if the tower fell over. He
stated he favored the revenue that would be generated by leasing the space, but
he was not comfortable that there was so much disagreement associated with this
proposal. Council Member Kelso requested the Mayor have an open session for the
citizens to attend so that they can be shown what is being proposed by
Cingular. He stated that even though he voted against this issue he does not
think it is time yet to put it to rest. Council Member Cobble stated that he
should have put a motion forth to table the issue, as the vote just effectually
defeated the proposal. Council Member Kelso disagreed that it was a dead issue.
Discussion Relating to Proposed Zoning Text Amendment Regarding Recreational
Vehicles
Mayor Moriconi presented for discussion a proposed text amendment to the
official zoning ordinance as it relates to the parking or storage of
recreational vehicles in residential zones. Mayor Moriconi thanked the
volunteers who met to discuss the text amendment and make the proposal
presented to council. Mr. Deters stated that a proposed text amendment
ordinance is being presented to council to show the actual language amendment
to the zoning ordinance. Mayor Moriconi read the changes in language that is
being proposed indicating that the significant changes would be an increase in
the gross vehicular weight from 6,000 to 18,000 pounds, the removal of a length
requirement on the recreational vehicles and the addition of language that
would regulate the use of PODS (Portable On Demand Storage Facilities). Mr.
Deters advised that an application for a text amendment would have to be
submitted to the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission, who would then
comment and submit a recommendation to the city.
A lengthy discussion ensued with the council members asking questions about the
proposed text amendments and making suggestions. Annie Wuestefeld, Zoning
Administrator stated a permit fee for PODS was being proposed, as it would be
considered an accessory structure. Council Member Cobble asked if a
construction dumpster should be considered as an accessory and charged a permit
fee as well, so as not to be discriminatory. Mr. Deters stated that dumpsters
are not problems as they are hauled away when they become full. The discussion
also touched on the number of RV's that would be permitted on any lot or
parcel. Council Member Franzen stated the committee considered one or even two
vehicles to be a reasonable number. Council Member Cobble submitted a letter
from Realtor Rebecca Coates Burris, which she read into the record of this
meeting. Ms. Burris' concerns were of an aesthetics nature, which she asserted
affect the market value of resident's homes. (Ms. Burris' letter is attached as
part of the official minutes of this meeting and is noted as “Attachment-A”).
Council Member Little stated that former Council Member Jaimie Henson was at
the committee meeting and shared information that stated the Supreme Court has
ruled that the city cannot pass an ordinance completely on concerns of
aesthetics. He also commented that the concern that market values are affected
is subjective. Council Member Franzen commented that a run down house will also
affect market values in a community. When discussing length restrictions, Ms.
Wuestefeld advised that she can not legally go onto private property to measure
an RV.
Jerry Saylor, 5140 Madison Pike, addressed council by stating that he recently
moved to the city. He stated he lives on a corner lot and went to the expense
of pouring a $4,000 concrete pad for his trailer and is now being told it is an
eyesore and that he can't store it on his property. A lengthy discussion ensued
between Mr. Saylor, Ms. Wuestefeld and Council Member Cobble about this
reported violation.
Council Member Little moved to submit the text amendment language to NKAPC as
proposed, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Council Member Franzen suggested
adding text proposed by Mr. Ken Lancaster. After a brief discussion it was
decided to submit the text as presented. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0. Mayor Moriconi advised a text application
would be submitted to NKAPC for a recommendation.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-24 – Relating to Compensation for Elected City Officials –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2005-0-24 relating
to the compensation of elected city officials. He stated that the increases
would take effect in January of 2007 when the newly elected city officials take
office. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2005-0-24, seconded by
Council Member Yeager.
Recess
At 9:00 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to take a recess, seconded by Council
Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 9:10 p.m. Council Member Yeager moved to return to regular session, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Resume Discussion of Ordinance No. 2005-O-24
Council Member Cobble advised she had a prepared statement regarding the
discussion that took place at the November 7, 2005 council meeting regarding
the proposed increase in compensation for the elected officials. She stated she
prepared a report comparing the cities in Northern Kentucky and that the report
shows Independence as the 4th highest compensated Mayor and Council. She stated
she feels that Council Member Little should have used the NKADD compensation
and benefits survey as a guide when he proposed the figures to be adopted in
this ordinance.
Council Member Little requested that council permit him more than five minutes
to present a prepared statement and report on this issue. (Council Member
Little’s prepared statement and corresponding report papers are attached to
these minutes as part of the official record and are noted as “Áttachment-B”)
Council Member Franzen moved to grant Council Member Little additional time to
make his presentation, seconded by Council Member Cobble.
Council Member Little read his prepared statement that cited wage statistics
taken from the NKADD and KLC wage and salary surveys and how the K.R.S. affects
them. (Council Member Little's recital was lengthy and his statement and report
documents are attached as part of the official record of the minutes of this
meeting.)
When Council Member Little finished his presentation, Council Member Cobble
asked him if he was aware of the compensation for the council member position
when he ran for office. He stated he was aware of the salary but not the time
that would be involved. Council Member Cobble stated she thinks everyone knew
it was not an easy job – she did – but she was willing to accept it as she
wanted to be a public servant. She stated elected officials in other city’s
feels the same way, even to the point of not accepting their compensation.
Council Member Little asked Council Member Cobble if she was saying she was
willing to not accept her salary as an elected official. Council Member Cobble
stated that if she is re-elected for the 2007-08 term, and if the city enacts
Ordinance No. 2005-O-24 to increase the compensation, then she will not accept
the additional $3,000 of the $6,000 compensation. Council Member Little stated
he was asking if Council Member Cobble was willing to not accept any of the
$3,000 compensation for the year 2006. Council Member Cobble replied no, as she
accepted the $3,000 per year when she ran for office for the 2005-06 term.
Council Members Cobble and Little continued a lengthy debate over this issue
until Council Member Kelso called point of order. Mayor Moriconi commented that
it appears that the primary disagreement seems to be how the proposed increase
in compensation was determined and which surveys should have been used to
arrive at an average amount.
Council Member Kelso asked Mayor Moriconi to call the question. Roll was called
and answered with three ayes from Council Members Little, Yeager and Franzen
and 3 nays from Council Members Cobble, Cook and Kelso. Mayor Moriconi broke
the tie with a yes vote. Motion carried 4-3.
At this time Council Member Cobble read into record her prepared statement (the
statement is attached to these minutes as part of the official record of the
meeting and are noted as ”Áttachment-C”). When Council Member Cobble finished
reading her prepared statement, there was a brief exchange of comments between
Mayor Moriconi and Council Member Cobble. Council Member Kelso made a motion to
move on with the agenda, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with
all ayes.
Council Member Franzen stated that if the city revenues come in low next year
she will put a motion on the floor to repeal Ordinance No. 2005-O-24. Council
Member Yeager stated she would second that motion.
NEW BUSINESS:
Resolution No. 2005-R-24 Approving the Execution of a MRA Bond Fund Agreement
with the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
Mayor Moriconi presented to council Resolution No. 2005-R-24 that would approve
the execution of a Municipal Road Aid Bond Fund Agreement between the
incorporated area and the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet to
perform resurfacing and concrete replacement on various city streets. There was
a brief discussion. Mayor Moriconi advised the city would be receiving $199,390
for a section of concrete replacement on Oby Drive and resurfacing on Kimberly
Court. Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Resolution No. 2005-R-24, seconded
by Council Member Cobble. No roll was called; motion carried with all ayes.
Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-04 – Approving Mayoral Appointment to the
Telecommunications Board of ––Northern Kentucky–
Mayor Moriconi presented Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-04 approving his
appointment of David Millward to the Telecommunications Board of Northern
Kentucky. There being no discussion, Council Member Franzen moved to adopt
Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-04, seconded by Council Member Kelso. No roll call;
motion carried 5-1 with the dissenting vote cast by Council Member Cook.
Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-05 – Approving Mayoral Appointment to the
––––Kenton– ––County–– Planning Commission
Mayor Moriconi presented Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-05 approving the
appointment of Maura Snyder to the Kenton County Planning Commission. Council
Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2005-MO-05, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. There was a brief discussion initiated by Council Member
Cobble regarding the Ms. Snyder’s attendance record for the last four years as
the city’s representative on the KCPC. Mayor Moriconi stated he checked with
the Planning Commission and Ms. Snyder was absent for four meetings of forty-
eight held during 2003-04 and she has missed 2 meetings this year. He stated he
did not believe that was an excessive amount and she now has four years
experience on the Commission which benefits the city. Roll was called and
answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and
Cook. Council Member Cobble stated she voted no as she feels Ms. Snyder has a
25% absenteeism rate which she believes is too much. Motion carried 4-2.
Kenton County Road Update – Chief Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he spoke with Kenton County Administrator Scott Kimmich
last week regarding the county’s proposed agreement to provide the city with
road maintenance. He stated that Mr. Kimmich has advised if the city elects to
not enter into this agreement then the city should provide them written
correspondence to that effect.
Council Member Cobble moved that the offer presented to the Council by Scott
Kimmich on behalf of the Kenton County Fiscal Court to provide partial
maintenance of certain city roads at a cost of $3,024 per mile not be accepted.
Council Member Kelso seconded the motion. Council Member Cobble stated that she
wanted to personally apologize to Mr. Kimmich and the Fiscal Court for taking
so long to respond to their offer. There being no further discussion; motion
carried with all ayes.
Executive Session
Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing litigation issues and KRS
61.810 (f) to discuss a personnel issue, seconded by Council Member Cobble.
Motion carried with all ayes. Council entered the executive session at 10:30
p.m.
At 10:55 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business before council, Council Member Franzen made a
motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by Council Member Kelso. Motion
carried and the meeting adjourned at 10:55 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2006 Minutes
January 9, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
9, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Resident, John Little gave the invocation. Roll
was called and the following Council Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney,
Jed K. Deters was also present. Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member
Kelso called to say he would not be present at the start of the meeting, but
would be arriving late.
Mayor Moriconi stated he would be implementing a couple changes in the meeting
procedures to make the meetings run smoother. He advised he would refrain from
yielding the floor to audience members wishing to participate in council
discussion. He stated he would also stay more focused on the agenda items and
avoid straying into other issues not on the agenda.
Approval of the December 5, 2005 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the December 5,
2005 council meeting. Council Member Cobble so moved with a second from Council
Member Franzen.
Council Member Franzen presented to amendments to the minutes. Mayor Moriconi
called for a motion to approve Council Member Franzen’s amendments. Council
Member Little so moved, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Council Member Cook presented one amendment to the minutes. Mayor Moriconi
called for a motion to approve Council Member Cook’s amendments. Council Member
Cobble so moved, with second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Council Member Cobble presented two amendments to the minutes. There was a
lengthy discussion. (Note: Council Member Kelso arrived at 7:08 p.m. and took
his seat during this discussion.) Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve
Council Member Cobble’s amendments to the minutes. Council Member Cook so
moved, with second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with
four nays cast by Council Members Kelso, Little, Yeager and Franzen and two
ayes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion to make amendments
presented by Council Member Cobble failed 4-2 against.
There being no further amendments presented, Mayor Moriconi asked the Clerk to
call the roll on the original motion and second by Council Members Cobble and
Franzen. Roll was called; motion carried 4-2 to accept the minutes of the
December 5, 2005 meeting as amended.
At this time, Mayor Moriconi permitted Council Member Cobble to read a prepared
statement from Realtor Rebecca Coates Burris
Privileges of the Floor
William Miller, 4394 Oliver Road, Independence, Ky. – addressed council about
his disapproval of the compensation increases for the elected official that was
adopted in December 2005.
Craig Hadley, 5720 Cody Road, Independence, Ky. – stated he wanted to comment
on the Kenton County Planning Commission’s recommendation regarding the
proposed zoning text amendment as it relates to class 4 fences. He stated he
would like the fence height to be 48 inches not the recommended 36 inches.
Betty Eichelberger, 6258 Taylor Mill Road, Independence, Ky. – addressed
council regarding two issues: 1) driveway access regulations on ––––Taylor Mill
Road–– (SR 16) and, 2) Ryland Homes have a painted advertisement sign on the
roof of a house that can be seen from ––––Taylor Mill Road––. She asked council
to see if this was a zoning violation.
Marcus Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence, Ky. – shared with council his
thoughts regarding the agenda issues that council discussed and/or took action
on in 2005.
2005 Audit Presentation by Rankin, Rankin & Company – Jim Sparrow
Mayor Moriconi introduced Jim Sparrow who presented and reviewed the highlights
of the 2005 audit. Mr. Sparrow advised the auditors report was an unqualified
opinion and that the city was in good financial standing and had a June 30,
2005 fund balance of $1,568,000. Mr. Sparrow conducted a brief question and
answer session with the council.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion to adopt the 2005 Audit. Council Member
Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Council Member Cobble clarified her vote by stating she
was voting yes as long as Mr. Sparrow would respond with answers to some of the
questions she asked. Motion carried 6-0.
Bid Proposals for Banking Services – Discussion and Award of Bid – Teresa
Hudson, Finance Director
Mayor Moriconi directed council to a Summary of Bank Proposals submitted by the
city’s Finance Director, Teresa Hudson. He stated that the city received six
bid proposals from the following banks: US Bank, The Bank of Kentucky, Fifth
Third Bank, Huntington Bank, National City and Key Bank. Mayor Moriconi
indicated it had been several years since the city bid out for these services.
Mrs. Hudson recommended the city accept the proposal from Fifth Third Bank as
they do not impose fees on certain services, they sweep the account each night
and give a four percent return. She stated the other banks imposed more fees or
discounted fees. She stated the city currently banks with Fifth Third.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion to award the bid proposal to Fifth Third
Bank. Council Member Cobble so moved, with second by Council Member Kelso. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2006-R-01 – Supporting a Zoning Text Amendment Application
Relating to Retirement Communities
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-01 that would support a zoning
text amendment application relating to add a new zone regulating retirement
communities. Mr. Deters read the Resolution and advised an application would be
submitted to the Kenton County Planning Commission for comment and
recommendation.
Council Member Franzen moved to accept Resolution No. 2006-R-01, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. A brief discussion ensued wherein it was noted that the
text being submitted did not contain the changes requested by some of the
council members.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to table Resolution No. 2006-R-01, seconded
by Council Member Kelso. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment – KCPC Application No. 1777R –
Changing an approximate 25-acre area located at the northeast and southeast
corners of the intersection of Madison Pike and Harris Pike from R-1C to NC as
proposed by Developer, Bill Toebben – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
accept a recommendation from the Kenton County Planning Commission (Number
1777R) and approve a map amendment changing an approximate 25-acre area located
a the northeast and southeast corner of the intersection of Madison Pike and
Harris Pike from R-1C to NC. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading. Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mr. Bill Toebben, the developer.
Mr. Toebben stated the KCPC approved this map amendment with the condition that
a street connection be constructed in the area of the proposed Everett Drive of
the adjoining development by One Eleven Engineers. He asked that the language
be changed to “a mutually agreeable location”. There was a brief discussion
regarding this request, as well as discussion to add a second condition that
the property owner will cooperate with the state regarding right of way for the
Kenton County Bicycle Plan. Council agreed to change the language as discussed,
by way of a motion made by Council Member Cobble and second by Council Member
Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Text Amendment – KCPC Application Number 1782R
Pertaining to Class 4 Fences in Residential Zones as proposed by Craig Hadley –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a text amendment to Article XIII, Section 13.3 of the Zoning Ordinance
pertaining to class 4 fencing in residential zones under certain conditions.
Specifically a class 4 fence may be installed at any place on property that has
a water body with a minimum water surface of one acre, the purpose being to
enclose or provide security. Mayor Moriconi opened the discussion pursuant to
Mr. Hadley’s request at the beginning of the meeting regarding the height of
the class 4 fencing. There was a brief discussion resulting in no changes being
made to the proposed ordinance. Mr. Deters gave a first reading of the
ordinance as submitted.
Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-01 – Appointing Council Member Kelso to the OKI
Regional Council of Governments
Mayor Moriconi presented Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-01 that would approve the
appointment of Council Member Kelso to the OKI Regional Council of Governments.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-01,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered with four ayes
and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Police Chief Report – David Nichols
Chief Nichols reported that National Incident Management System (NIMS) training
is available to public officials and if anyone is interested that they should
see him.
City Attorney Report – ––Jed K. Deters–
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated that Council Member Franzen would select the January
recipient of the Business of the Month recognition which would be presented at
the next meeting.
Mayor Moriconi announced that the military group adopted by the city, the 940th
MP Company of the Kentucky National Guard located in Walton, Kentucky, returned
today from their year of active duty in Iraq.
Mayor Moriconi stated the city website has been revamped to be more citizen
friendly with city permit application forms now available on-line.
Mayor Moriconi announced the interior of the Senior Center received a fresh
coat of paint over the holiday break. He thanked Jailer Terry Carl for
providing the city inmate labor to accomplish this undertaking.
Miscellaneous
Request by Council Member Franzen – ––––Cherokee– ––Shopping Center–– dumpster
issue be placed one the next meeting agenda for discussion
Council Member Yeager – Announced the city is obtaining a cost estimate to
install street lights on the telephone poles on Delaware Crossing and
anticipates getting the lights installed by early spring 2006. Council Member
Cobble requested the city look to see if the Stage I or Stage II development
plan for the Towne Center required the developer to install street lights.
Council Member Cobble – Asked about the snow removal contract with the county.
Council Members Cobble and Cook read a prepared statement regarding an issue
that was discussed previously in Executive Session. In response to this Mr.
Deters requested that the meeting immediately move into an executive session.
Executive Session
Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing possible litigation issues,
seconded by Council Member Cobble. Roll was called and answered with four ayes
and two no votes cast by Council Members Kelso and Little. Motion carried 4-
2 and council entered an executive session at 9:00 p.m.
At 9:30 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business before council, Council Member Franzen made a
motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by Council Member Little. Motion
carried and the meeting ended at 9:30 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
January 23, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
23, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Resident, Jim Kudera gave the invocation. Roll
was called and the following Council Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney,
Jed K. Deters was also present.
Mayor Moriconi recognized Boy Scout Troop No. 71 seated in the audience. He
stated they would be observing the meeting to receive credit in attaining their
communications badge.
Recognition of the January Business of the Month
Mayor Moriconi advised that Council Member Franzen had selected One Eleven
Engineering and Surveying as the recipient of the Business of the Month for
January, but since they were not in attendance, he would present the plaque to
them at the next regular meeting.
Announcement by Mayor Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi advised council that it has been brought to his attention last
week that Council Member Cobble, on January 9th submitted a two page statement
to the City Clerk and asked that it be attached to the December 5th minutes
after they had already been voted on and approved. Ms. Cobble cited that under
Section 4.19 of the Rules of Order ordinance that this is allowed. However,
since he is responsible to run the meetings and enforce the rules he has read
the statement and finds it does not meet the requirements of this rule and,
therefore Ms. Cobble’s statement will not be allowed to be attached to the
minutes of the Dec. 5th meeting
Approval of the January 9, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January 9,
2006 council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from
Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted. Roll was not called; the
motion carried with all ayes to adopt the minutes as submitted.
Privileges of the Floor
Mr. Jerry Saylor, 5140 Madison Pike, Independence – submitted a petition with
409 signatures from citizens concerned with a proposed zoning text amendment
relating to the parking and storing of recreational vehicles (RV’s). (The
petition is attached as part of the official minutes of this meeting.)
Ordinance No. 2006-O-01 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment – KCPC Application
Number 1782R Pertaining to Class 4 Fences in Residential Zones as proposed by
Craig Hadley – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a text amendment to Article XIII, Section 13.3 of the Zoning Ordinance
pertaining to class 4 fencing in residential zones under certain conditions.
Specifically a class 4 fence may be installed at any place on property that has
a water body with a minimum water surface of one acre, the purpose being to
enclose or provide security. There being no discussion, Mayor Moriconi directed
Mr. Deters, City Attorney to give Ordinance No. 2006-O-01 a second reading.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-01 as read, seconded
by Council Member Cobble. Roll call was answered with five ayes and one nay
cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-02 – Approving a Map Amendment – KCPC Application No.
1777R – Changing an approximate 25-acre area located at the northeast and
southeast corners of the intersection of Madison Pike and Harris Pike from R-1C
to NC as proposed by Developer, Bill Toebben – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
accept a recommendation from the Kenton County Planning Commission (Number
1777R) and approve a map amendment changing an approximate 25-acre area located
a the northeast and southeast corner of the intersection of Madison Pike and
Harris Pike from R-1C to NC. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a second
reading to approve the map amendment subject to compliance with two conditions.
Council Member Cobble moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-02 subject to
compliance with the two conditions, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Zoning Text Amendment Pertaining to
Recreational Vehicles (RV’s) – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance amending
Section 9.23 of the official zoning ordinance that would prohibit the parking
of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight of 18,000 or more pounds on residential
property and would also modify the length requirement on recreational vehicles.
A brief discussion ensued regarding residential property that abuts commercial
property. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance - Relating to the Regulation of Portable Storage Units – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance amending
Section 92.10 of the official zoning ordinance that would create a new
definition for the regulation of portable storage units. Mr. Deters explained
that it was recommended by the Planning Commission that a separate ordinance
should be adopted to regulate the temporary use of portable storage units and
that the Zoning Administrator has suggested they be classified under the
nuisances section of the zoning ordinance. There was a brief discussion prior
to the first reading wherein further amendments to the proposed text were
noted.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion to approve the amendments. Council Member
Yeager so moved seconded by Council Member Little. No roll call; motion carried
5-1, the nay vote being cast by Council Member Cobble. Mr. Deters gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading. Further discussion centered on the need to
require a permit, but that no fee should be associated with a permit. The
permit would be used strictly as a tracking devise.
Resolution No. 2006-R-01 – Adopting the ––Northern Kentucky– Regional Hazard
Mitigation Plan
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2006-R-01 that would approve
the adoption of the Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan as the
official Hazard Mitigation Plan for the City. He advised that under the
Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000, the U. S. Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) requires that local jurisdictions have in place a FEMA-approved
Mitigation Action Plan as a condition of receipt of certain future funding. Mr.
Deters read Resolution No. 2006-R-01.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-01, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Resolution Establishing Continuity of Government Administration in the
Absence or Vacancy of the Mayor
Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed Resolution that would establish the
continuity of government administration in the event of the vacancy in the
office of the Mayor due to absence or disability. Mr. Deters advised he feels
that in keeping with KRS the Mayor’s delegation of power should be established
in an Executive Order. There was a brief discussion, wherein it was decided to
be presented to the council in Executive Order form at the next meeting.
Council Member Cobble moved to table this issue, seconded by Council Member
Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2006-R-02 – A Reprimand & Censuring of Council Member Margaret
Cook
Council Member Little advised Mayor Moriconi that he had prepared two
Resolutions that he would like presented to the Council for their consideration
and approval. Mayor Moriconi stated he did not want to deviate from the Agenda.
Council Member Little made a motion to appeal the mayor’s decision. Council
Member Franzen seconded the motion. No roll was called, but the motion passed
4-2 with Council Members Cobble and Cook casting the dissenting votes.
Council Member Little presented and read to council for their consideration
Resolution No. 2006-R-02 as a reprimand and censuring of Council Member
Margaret Cook for violations of city ordinances pertaining to conduct at city
meetings.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-02, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. No roll was called; motion carried 4-2 with Council
Members Cobble and Cook casting the dissenting votes. (Resolution No. 2006-R-02
is attached to the official minutes of this meeting)
Resolution No. 2006-R-03 – A Reprimand & Censuring of Council Member JoAnne
Cobble
Council Member Little presented and read to council for their consideration
Resolution No. 2006-R-03 as a reprimand and censuring of Council Member JoAnne
Cobble for violations of city ordinances pertaining to conduct at city
meetings.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-03, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. No roll was called; motion carried 4-2 with Council
Members Cobble and Cook casting the dissenting votes. (Resolution No. 2006-R-03
is attached to the official minutes of this meeting
Statement by Council Member Franzen
Council Member Franzen asked Mayor Moriconi if she could read a prepared
statement. Mayor Moriconi stated he did not want to deviate from the Agenda.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to appeal Mayor Moriconi’s decision,
seconded by Council Member Little. No roll call; motion carried 4-2 with
Council Members Cobble and Cook casting the dissenting votes.
Council Member Franzen read her prepared statement (the statement is attached
to the official minutes of this meeting).
Police Chief Report – David Nichols
Chief Nichols stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – ––Jed K. Deters–
Mr. Deters requested the council go into an executive session to discuss
litigation issues.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Kelso would select a local business to
recognize as Business of the Month for February.
Mayor Moriconi announced that he will be unveiling the new city flag, hopefully
at the next regular meeting. He stated the flag design that received the most
votes on the city web site is being produced and should be ready by the next
meeting.
Executive Session
Council Member Little moved to enter into an executive session in accordance
with KRS 61.810 (c) for the purpose of discussing possible litigation issues,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and council
entered an executive session at 7:42 p.m.
At 8:20 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business before council, Council Member Franzen made a
motion to adjourn the meeting, with a second by Council Member Little. Motion
carried and the meeting ended at 8:20 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 6, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
6, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Resident, Jim Kudera gave the invocation. Roll
was called and the following Council Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Recognition of the Business of the Month
Mayor Moriconi advised the city was recognizing two businesses. Council Member
Franzen selected One Eleven Engineering and Surveying as the recipient of the
Business of the Month for January and Council Member Kelso selected SMI New
Home Solutions as the recipient for February. Mayor Moriconi presented the
plaques to Jim Bertram of One Eleven and Mark and Susie Wheatly of SMI New Home
Solutions.
Approval of the January 23, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the January 23,
2006 council meeting. Council Member Little so moved with a second from Council
Member Franzen. Council Member Cook read a prepared statement regarding the
January 23, 2006 meeting. Council Member Little asked if her statement was a
motion to amend the minutes. Council Member Cook so moved, with second by
Council Member Cobble. No roll was called; motion failed 2-4. Council Member
Cook asked that a copy of her statement be attached to the minutes of this
meeting.
Council Member Cobble stated she wished to make a statement which she had
prepared in Resolution form. Council Members Little and Kelso called for point
of order citing that the reading or discussion of a Resolution should not be
done while there is a motion on the floor to approve the minutes from the last
meeting. Mayor Moriconi concurred and advised Council Member Cobble it would be
more appropriate under new business.
Mayor Moriconi called for a vote to approve the minutes as submitted. Motion
carried 4-2 with Council Members Cobble and Cook casting the dissenting votes.
Unveiling of the New City Flag
Mayor Moriconi unveiled the new city flag. He advised the tree on the flag
represents the Aristocrat Pear tree that was propagated by Independence
resident William Straw. Mayor Moriconi stated the flag was the most popular of
the four flag designs that were posted on the city website and was selected by
the input of the citizens.
Privileges of the Floor
Mr. Jerry Saylor, 5140 Madison Pike, Independence – submitted a petition with
another 262 signatures to add to the 409 signatures submitted at the last
meeting. He stated the signatures are from citizens concerned with a proposed
zoning text amendment relating to the parking and storing of recreational
vehicles (RV’s). (The petition with the 262 signatures is attached as part of
the official minutes of this meeting.)
Mr. Leon Myers, 10805 Autumnridge Drive, Independence – voiced his concern with
the proposed text amendment relating to the recreational vehicles and an
individual’s privacy and property rights
Resolution No. 2006-R-04 – Supporting a Zoning Text Amendment Application
Relating to Retirement Communities
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-04 that would approve the city
sponsoring a zoning text amendment application relating to retirement
communities. Council Member Cobble reminded council that this matter had
previously been tabled. Mr. Deters advised a motion to untable this would be
necessary. Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Kelso.
Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-04, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. There was a brief discussion regarding the proposed text
relating to screening of parking lots, service areas, etc. from view of
adjacent residential properties. Council Member Yeager made a motion to add
language that would designate the Zoning Administration as the person to
determine the appropriate screening, seconded by Council Member Little. No roll
call; motion carried with all ayes.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2006-R-04 and afterward advised that, if
approved, this text would establish a new zone in the city and provide
regulations for the zone. Mayor Moriconi called for a vote to adopt Resolution
No. 2006-R-04. No roll call; motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-03 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment – KCPC Application
Number 1789R - Relating to Recreational Vehicles (RV’s) – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve an amendment to Section 9.23 of the official zoning ordinance that
would prohibit the parking of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight of 18,000 or
more pounds and modifying the length requirement on recreational vehicles. Mr.
Deters gave a second reading to Ordinance No. 2006-O-03.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-03, seconded
by Council Member Little. Council Member Cobble asked which council member was
sponsoring this ordinance. Council Member Franzen stated she volunteered to be
the sponsor. A discussion ensued. Council Members Cobble and Cook voiced their
concerns with the proposed text regulating the weight and length of vehicles
and the enforceability of this ordinance. Council Member Little stated
Independence still has very rural areas throughout the city. Mayor Moriconi
commented that the proposed text changes were the result of a meeting of some
council members and concerned citizens. There being no further discussion, roll
was called and answered 4-2 with Council Members Cobble and Cook casting the
dissenting votes. Motion carried 4-2.
Proposed Ordinance - Relating to the Regulation of Portable Storage Units
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
establish regulations for the use of portable storage units in residential
zones. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a second reading. Council Member
Franzen moved to adopt the ordinance, seconded by Council Member Yeager. A
lengthy discussion ensued wherein significant inaccuracies were noted and many
text changes were suggested. Council Member Cook moved to table this issue,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Executive Order No. 2006-EO-01 – Establishing Continuity of Government
Administration in the Absence/Vacancy of the Mayor
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2006-EO-01 that would establish
the continuity of government administration in the event of a vacancy in the
office of the mayor due to absence or disability. Executive Order No. 2006-EO-
01 establishes that the responsibilities of the office of mayor would be
delegated to first, the Police Chief, second the Assistant Police Chief and
third would be the Council Member as designated by city ordinance. There was a
brief discussion wherein it was decided to eliminate the third designee, as it
was pointed out that state law does not permit a council member to handle the
day to day responsibilities of the mayor. Mayor Moriconi agreed to eliminate
the third designee and the change was noted.
Request for City to Sponsor a Map Amendment Application for Gailen Bridges &
Vicki Smock for Property Located at 11077-11093-11103-11111-11119 Madison Pike
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Gailen Bridges and Vicki Smock who were presented
to request the city to sponsor a zoning map amendment for properties they own
along Madison Pike, specificially 11077, 11093, 11103, 11111 and 11119 Madison
Pike. Mr. Bridges stated that the rerouting of SR 17 would divide these parcels
making them undesirable for residential development. He stated they would like
the city to rezone these parcels to NC (neighborhood commercial)
Council Member Kelso made a motion to approve this request for the city to
sponsor the map amendment, seconded by Council Member Franzen. No roll call;
motion carried 4-2 with Council Members Cook and Cobble casting the dissenting
votes.
Proposed Ordinance – Prohibiting Disclosure of Information Discussed In
Executive Session – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
prohibit the disclosure of any information divulged or discussed in an
executive session of the city council and providing that a violation would be a
Class A misdemeanor. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Council Member
Cobble asked who was sponsoring this ordinance. Council Member Franzen stated
she was the sponsor.
Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-02 – Approving Mayoral Appointment to Code
Enforcement/Board of Ethics
Mayor Moriconi presented Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-02 that would approve his
appointment of P. Ward Anderson to the Code Enforcement/Board of Ethics. Mr.
Deters read Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-02. Council Member Little moved to
adopt Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-02, seconded by Council Member Kelso. No roll
call; motion carried 4-2 with Council Members Cobble and Cook casting the
dissenting votes.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Cobble requested the Mayor allow her to read a prepared
statement. Mayor Moriconi stated he did not want to deviate from the agenda.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to overrule the Mayor’s decision, seconded
by Council Member Cook. No roll call; motion was defeated as follows: 2 ayes
cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook, 3 nays cast by Council Members Kelso,
Little and Yeager and 1 abstain cast by Council Member Franzen. Mr. Deters
advised that an abstention counts with the majority vote so that the vote is
ruled 2-4. Council Member Cobble requested her statement be listed on the
agenda for the next meeting. Mayor Moriconi replied okay.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – ––Jed K. Deters–
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Little would select the Business of the
Month for March.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little made a motion to adjourn
the meeting, with a second by Council Member Kelso. Motion carried and the
meeting ended at 8:02 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 27, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
27, 2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent
Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also
present.
Approval of the February 6, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February 6,
2006 council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second from
Council Member Yeager. Council Member Little voiced his objection to the
attachment of Council Member Cook’s statement that she read at the February 6
meeting and a debate ensued. In due course, roll was called to approve the
minutes with the statement attached, and answered 4-2, with Council Members
Little and Kelso casting the dissenting votes. Motion carried.
Privileges of the Floor
John Bach, 427 Independence Station Road, Independence – addressed Council
regarding the Meadow Glen Subdivision Stage II development plan, which is on
the agenda for Council to consider the recommendation of the Planning
Commission. Mr. Bach advised that in order for the developer to adhere to one
of the sixteen conditions imposed on this development plan would involve the
acquisition of a portion of his property to widen ––––Webster Road––. He feared
this would be taken from him by eminent domain. Mr. Deters advised that the
Planning Commission cannot force the city to condemn private property for
private use and that in his opinion the condition imposed on the developer
(Berling/Fischer) to widen a portion of ––––Webster Road–– to twenty-two (22)
feet is unenforceable.
Mary Yost, 3988 Thomas Drive, addressed Council regarding a concern she has
with her grandchildren’s use of dirt bikes. She stated her grandchildren have
told her the police officers have told them the bikes are not allowed. She
asked if there was an ordinance prohibiting dirt bikes. Mayor Moriconi advised
Ms. Yost he would have the Police Chief call her this week to discuss her
concern.
JoAnne Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, Independence - Mayor Moriconi advised that
Council Member JoAnne Cobble wished to address the Council under the Privileges
of the Floor. Council Member Cobble read a prepared statement wherein she
protested the adoption of Resolution No. 2006-R-02 and Resolution No. 2006-R-
03.
Proposed Ordinance - Relating to the Regulation of Portable Storage Units – New
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a revised draft of a proposed ordinance
that would establish the regulation of portable storage units. There was a
brief discussion to add language providing currently existing portable storage
units a period of sixty days in which to come into compliance with this new
law. The amendment was noted and Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Prohibiting Disclosure of Information Discussed In
Executive Session – New 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a new first reading a revised draft of a proposed
ordinance that would prohibit the disclosure of any information divulged or
discussed in an executive session of the city council and providing that a
violation would be a Class A misdemeanor. There was a lengthy discussion with
differing opinions on this proposed ordinance.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Ratify the KCPC Recommendation to Approve the Stage II Development Plan of
Meadow Glen Subdivision
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for discussion the correspondence from the
Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission dated February 7, 2006 wherein they
recommend approval of the Meadow Glen Subdivision Stage II development plan for
an approximate 20-acre area, subject to one additional condition. (Note: City
Ordinance No. 2004-O-15 was adopted on 9-13-04 approving the rezoning of the
area from R-1C to R-1C (PUD) subject to sixteen conditions). A discussion
ensued wherein there was some hesitancy by some Council Members who voiced
their concerns in approving this based on Mr. John Bach’s property being taken
for the widening of ’’’’Webster Road’’. (Condition number 10 of Ordinance No.
2004-O-15). Mr. Deters restated that it was an unenforceable condition.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to resident, Michelle Herrmann who pointed out
that condition number ten was imposed at the time of the zone change, and a
condition that she feels is necessary. Mr. Deters stated the developer would
have to condemn the private property needed to adhere to this condition. A
lengthy discussion ensued. Ms. Herrmann commented that Webster Road would need
to be widened even before the construction trucks could access it. Mr. Deters
advised that Council that Mr. Bach is requesting the city provide him a
promissory letter that we would not pursue the widening of Webster Road. In
closing the discussion, Mr. Deters stated that the bottom line is that
condition number ten effectively doesn’t hurt either Mr. Bach or Ms. Herrmann.
Council Member Kelso moved to ratify the NKAPC recommendation to approve the
Meadow Glen Subdivision Stage II development plan (Z-06-01-05/1769R), seconded
by Council Member Yeager. No roll call; motion carried 4-2 with Council Members
Cobble and Cook casting the dissenting votes.
Resolution No. 2006-R-05 – Petitioning the State to Lower the Speed Limit on
––––Fowler Creek Road––
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration Resolution No.
2006-R-05 that would petition the state to lower the speed limit on Fowler
Creek Road. Chief Butler cited numerous traffic incidents on Fowler Creek Road
and advised Council that in the interest of public safety he felt it would be
prudent to lower the speed limit, but that since it is a state maintained road,
the city would need to make this request to the state highway department.
Council Member Cobble moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-05 for all the
reasons cited by Chief Butler. Council Member Yeager seconded the motion. No
roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report, but stated he would like to discuss
a matter in executive session.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated Council Member Little would select the Business of the
Month for March. Council Member Little stated he would like to recognize the
Dance Center.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Cobble asked about the above ground utility lines in the
Independence Towne Center. She stated she thought the city required underground
utility lines in all new developments. Mr. Deters stated he thinks the city has
such an ordinance, but that it only pertains to residential developments. Mayor
Moriconi advised he would look into that and report back.
Council Member Cook asked about the installation of the turn lane on Madison
that was a condition imposed on the Towne
Center development. Chief Butler advised that he has attended a couple meetings
with the developers involved and the issue of the utility lines has surfaced
and it has not been determined yet who is responsible for moving them, etc.
Executive Session
Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session to discuss
possible land acquisition in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (b), seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:26 p.m., Council Member Franzen moved to return to regular session,
seconded by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Cobble made a motion to adjourn
the meeting, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried and the
meeting ended at 8:26 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 6, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 6,
2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Recognition of the March Business of the Month
Mayor Moriconi advised that Council Member Little had selected The Dance Center
as the March Business of the Month recipient. Mayor Moriconi presented a plaque
to proprietor Mia Armelli. Mrs. Armelli thanked the City officials for this
recognition and stated that The Dance Center has been in operation for eighteen
years. She also stated they will begin adding additional services, such as
voice lessons and musical instrument instructions.
Approval of the February 27, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the February 27,
2006 council meeting. Council Member Yeager moved to adopt the minutes,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Council Member Cook noted an amendment on
page three; there were no objections. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, Independence – Asked Mayor Moriconi if the
Fowler Creek Sewer Assessment audit had been completed yet. Mayor Moriconi
advised the report would be ready for presentation to the Council sometime in
March or April.
Discussion Regarding the Tabling of Map Amendment Application No. 1798R –
Bridges & Smock Properties on Madison Pike
Mayor Moriconi advised that after the February 6, 2006 council meeting, wherein
the Council agreed to sponsor a zoning map amendment for properties along
Madison Pike owned by Mr. Gailen Bridges and Ms. Vicki Smock, he received calls
from citizens and council members who had concerns over this proposed zone
change. He stated that it became clear to him that the concerns were sufficient
enough to warrant having the Kenton County Planning Commission table the matter
until such time that concerns could be addressed and resolved. A lengthy
discussion ensued. Some Council Members stated they had received complaints
from residents on Sidney Drive. Also, Council Member Franzen stated she had
learned that the Kenton County Board of Education was in negotiations with the
property owners to purchase the land. Mr. Bridges confirmed there had been some
discussion with the Board of Education. Mr. Jeremy Deters, legal counsel for
the Board of Education, stated the Board had interest in the property as it
will be the new entrance into the school from the newly routed section of SR
17. He stated the Board has concerns of the property being zoned commercial and
the type of businesses that could possibly be developed on the land.
Ray Baldwin, 34 Sidney Drive, addressed council by stating he did not think it
was appropriate to zone this property commercial. Further discussion centered
on the possibility of amending the current application for the zone change.
City Attorney, Mr. Jed Deters advised the application could continue being
tabled, modified with conditions, or completely withdrawn. He stated if the
city decided to withdraw the application, then the property owners could apply
for the map amendment themselves. Mr. Bridges stated if he and the other
property owners made the application they would be required to submit a
development plan, which he currently does not have.
Mayor Moriconi asked Council how they wanted to proceed. Mr. Bridges expressed
displeasure at the possibility that he would be out the application fee
($1,250) if Council would decide to withdraw the application. Mr. Deters
advised Council that the application fee is non-refundable.
Council Member Kelso moved to untable the map amendment application and
proceed, but the motion died for lack of a second. Council Member Kelso
questioned why it would even be necessary for the Council to untable this issue
since the Mayor had exercised his executive authority to table it.
Council Member Yeager moved to withdraw the map amendment application, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with two yeahs and four
nays. Motion was defeated 2-4. A brief discussion ensued regarding the time
frame the city had to work within to untable the application with the Planning
Commission. Mr. Deters advised the Planning Commission deadline to submit new
information, untable or withdraw the application was August 2, 2006. Mayor
Moriconi advised Mr. Bridges that the city would take all the comments and
discussion tonight under consideration.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-04 – Establishing Regulations of Portable Storage Units –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-
04 establishing the regulation of portable storage units. Mr. Deters gave a
second reading of the ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-04, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. A brief discussion ensued. Roll was called and answered
with four ayes and two nays cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion
carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-05– Prohibiting Disclosure of Information Discussed In
Executive Session – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-05, an
ordinance that would prohibit the disclosure of any information divulged or
discussed in an executive session of the city council and providing that a
violation would be a Class A misdemeanor. Mr. Deters gave a second reading of
the ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-05, seconded by
Council Member Little. A brief discussion ensued regarding the need and
enforceability of such an ordinance. Roll was called and answered with four
ayes and two nays cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to De-Annex 4946 and 4948 Madison Pike – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
state the city’s intent to de-annex a part of the property owned by Greg and
Karen Lipscomb and John Schoborg located at 4946 and 4948 Madison Pike. Mayor
Moriconi opened the floor for discussion prior to the first reading. Mr. Deters
advised that it was necessary to adopt an ordinance of the intent to de-annex,
which would be forwarded to Kenton County, and then they will have thirty days
to respond. He stated if the county has no objection, then an ordinance will be
presented to officially de-annex the property. There was a brief discussion
wherein it was noted that this has been an on-going issue that stemmed from an
annexation (Ordinance No. 2-12-78) in 1978. Mr. Deters advised the legal
description in the original annexation was erroneous and the property owners
have been attempting to get this rectified for many years.
Council Member Yeager moved to have a first reading of the proposed ordinance,
seconded by Council Member Cobble. Roll was called and answered unanimously;
motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated he had nothing to report
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen made a motion to
adjourn the meeting, with a second by Council Member Little. Motion carried and
the meeting ended at 8:08 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 20, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 20,
2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Approval of the March 6, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the March 6, 2006
council meeting. Council Member Yeager moved to adopt the minutes, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi announced that no one registered to address the Council.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-06 - Intent to De-Annex 4946 and 4948 Madison Pike – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-06; an
ordinance declaring the city’s intent to de-annex a part of the property owned
by Greg and Karen Lipscomb and John Schoborg located at 4946 and 4948 Madison
Pike (PIDN 046-00-00-006.00 and PIDN 046-00-00-006.02). Mr. Deters read the
Ordinance and explained the city would provide notice to Kenton County of the
intent to strike this area from the city limits.
Motion was made by Council Member Cobble and seconded by Council Member Yeager
to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-06. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2006-R-06 – Supporting the Application of a TEA-21 Sidewalk
Grant
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-06 that would support the
application of a TEA-21 grant to fund 80% of the projected costs to construct
sidewalks along sections of Madison Pike. He stated the grant application
requires that the city pledge to reserve the other 20% of the projected cost
for this project, which must be in the form of a Resolution to be attached to
the application. There was a brief discussion regarding some of the
deteriorated sidewalk areas along Madison Pike. Mayor Moriconi stated he has
been advised of another grant opportunity called Safe Routes to School that
provides 100% of the projected costs. He stated the city would be making
application for that grant also.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-06, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. No roll was called, motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2006-R-07 – Supporting a Text Amendment Application Relating to
Dumpster Screening
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-07 that would support the
application of a zoning text amendment adding a provision that would require
compliance with the screening of existing dumpsters within ninety days. There
was a brief discussion and then Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2006-R-07.
Council Member Cobble moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-07, seconded by
Council Member Little. No roll was called, motion carried with all ayes.
Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-03 – Approving the Mayoral Appointment to the Code
Enforcement/Board of Ethics
Mayor Moriconi presented Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-03 to Council requesting
they approve his re-appointment of Sandy Woolum to the Code Enforcement/Board
of Ethics. There was a brief discussion to add term language to the Order.
Council Member Cobble moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-03 with the
additional term language. Council Member Little seconded the motion. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated a snow storm has been forecast and urged citizens to remove
their vehicles from the street if a snow emergency is declared so that the city
snow plows can clear the roads.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated the city has received complaints about trash blowing all
over. He urged the public to have trash container lids securely in place to
prevent this from occurring. He reminded everyone an ordinance was adopted a
few years ago that mandates trash cannot be placed at the curb prior to 4 p.m.
the day before pick up.
Discussion of Rumpke Contract Renewal
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the current contract with Rumpke for waste
removal will expire on June 30, 2006. He advised that the current contract has
an option for a 2-year extension that would increase the current monthly rate
by .44 cents for a total of $5.28 annually. He stated the trash assessment per
unit would go from $105.84 to $111.12 per year. The $111.12 assessment would be
set for two years – 2006 and 2007.
There was a brief discussion about having Rumpke directly bill the property
owners, and then if the trash bill is not paid, Rumpke could discontinue
service to the property. The pros and cons of this were discussed. The City
Clerk advised that the option before the Council was whether or not they would
like to extend the current contract which provides that Rumpke bill the city
directly and not the property owners. She stated that if they wanted to deviate
from the current service being provided under the current contract that Rumpke
would probably want to re-negotiate the rates, taking into consideration
today’s high fuel rates, cost of postage to every property owner, etc.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve extending Rumpke’s contract for the
next 2-year period of 2006/2008 providing for an annual rate of $111.12,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Yeager would select the business
of the month recognition for April.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Cobble made a motion to adjourn
the meeting, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried and the
meeting ended at 7:26 p.m.
___________________________________
Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 3, 2006
The APRIL 3, 2006 CITY COUNCIL MEETING was CANCELLED due to LACK OF BUSINESS
________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 17, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 17,
2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Mike Little, and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Recognition of the April Business of the Month
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Yeager had selected Chestnut’s
Fencing as the April Business of the Month recipient. Mayor Moriconi presented
a plaque to proprietor Gary Chestnut.
Approval of the March 20, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the March 20, 2006
council meeting. Council Member Little so moved, with second by Council Member
Franzen. There being no amendments, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0 to approve the March 20, 2006 minutes as submitted.
Privileges of the Floor
Glenn Pryor, 4406 Oliver Road, Independence advised Mayor and Council that he
would like to purchase or obtain a right of way of a 30x30 foot tract of land
that abuts the northeast corner of his property which is owned by the city and
had a sewer pump station on it many years ago. Mr. Deters stated the city would
first have to declare this as surplus property, and notify all adjoining
property owners of the sale. He also advised it would have to be advertised and
sealed bids would be taken in order to get fair market value. Mr. Pryor then
asked if he could go ahead a get an easement from the city so he can apply for
a state encroachment permit for a curb cut. Mr. Deters stated he would look
into his request and contact him.
William Miller, 4394 Oliver Rd, Independence - brought before Mayor and Council
a map showing a new subdivision being built next to Manor Hill Subdivision that
is in unincorporated Kenton County and asked if these new homes would be
assessed the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt charge since they would be using the
city’s sewer system. Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Miller that Mr. Deters will
look into this matter.
Proposed Ordinance-Approving Text Amendment Establishing a Retirement Community
Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance approving a
zoning text amendment that would add regulations for retirement communities.
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for Council discussion prior to having the
first reading of this ordinance. A lengthy discussion ensued wherein language
amendments were proposed and considered and ultimately it was decided to
postpone the first reading. It was requested that Mike Schwartz from the
Planning Commission be asked to attend the city’s next meeting to address the
city’s concerns on this.
Police Chief Report
Chief Butler reported the police department has surplus items they would like
to place in the Kenton County Police auction to be held on May 20, 2006 with
the city’s proceeds going into the general fund. He stated they will be
auctioning a 1994 Crown Victoria with 177,000 miles, and a color printer with
several spare ink cartridges. Motion was made by Council Member Cobble and
seconded by Council Member Yeager to declare these items surplus for the
auction. No roll was called. Motion passed with all ayes.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Extension of Contract for Lawn Maintenance Services
Mayor Moriconi stated that the city contract with Malco Lawn Services will
expire on June 30, 2006 and he would like to exercise the option to extend the
contract at the rates that were set forth in the bid that was awarded in 2004.
There was a short discussion regarding necessary updates with regard to
properties no longer owned by the city. A motion was made by Council Member
Yeager, seconded by Council Member Cobble to extend the contract for a period
of two additional years. No roll was called. Motion carried with all ayes.
Madison Pike Sidewalk Project
Mayor Moriconi stated the city will be contacting the affected property owners
regarding the next phase of sidewalk construction along Madison Pike. He stated
bids for this project will be presented to council in May.
Update on the Audit of the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt
Mayor Moriconi stated the audit of the Fowler Creek Sewer debt assessments has
been completed by the city attorney and some of the council members. He stated
the audit has revealed there will be an additional 269 properties to be
assessed the debt reduction fee which will bring approximately $75,000.00
additional revenue per year toward the debt. Council Member Cobble asked if
residents could obtain a copy of the audit. Mayor Moriconi stated all parties
affected by this will be notified privately before the report is made public.
Council Member Franzen stated the audit revealed there are properties paying
the debt reduction, but that assessment liens were never filed. She suggested
those property owners be notified that a lien would be filed on their property.
Council also discussed the possibility of back billing for omitted years in
which the assessment was erroneously not charged and the legalities of doing
this. There continued to be a lengthy discussion regarding tap-in fees,
maintenance fees and the Fowler Creek sewer debt being self sufficient. Mayor
Moriconi stated everything will be reviewed very carefully and this process
will not be rushed.
New Public Services Facility on Richardson Road
Mayor Moriconi reported that the leased Public Services facility on Cox Road
has been vacated and the employees have taken occupancy of the newly acquired
building on Richardson Road.
Police Department – ––––FBI– ––Academy–– Graduate
Mayor Moriconi announced that Lt. Ed Bailey is the city’s third police officer
to graduate from the FBI Academy.
Street Repairs
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that bids were received today for the repairs
for Kimberly and Elizabeth Drives. He stated the city engineer will review the
bids and provide a recommendation to award the bid in time for the next council
meeting.
Ordinance No. 2005-O-24 – Relating to Elected Officials Compensation – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a new second reading Ordinance No. 2005-O-24
relating to the elected officials compensation. He advised that the Kentucky
Post/Enquirer did not get the ordinance published within the thirty days of
adoption as is required by state law. He stated it was published, but not
within the required time so as a housekeeping measure he was presenting it for
a new second reading. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2005-O-24. Motion was made
by Council Member Yeager, seconded by Council Member Little to accept the new
second reading of Ordinance No. 2005-O-24. Roll was called and answered with
three yeahs by Council Members Yeager, Little and Franzen and three nays by
Council Members Cobble, Cook and Kelso. Mayor Moriconi broke the tie vote by
casting a yeah vote. Motion carried 4-3.
Status of De-Annexation of Lipscomb/Schoborg Property on Madison Pike
Council Member Cobble asked the status regarding the de-annexation of the
Lipscomb property. Mr. Deters stated Kenton County has 30 days to respond which
will expire later this week.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little made a motion to adjourn
the meeting, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried and the
meeting adjourned at 8:52 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 1, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 1,
2006 at 7:00 p.m. in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Mike Little, and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Approval of the April 17, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the April 17, 2006
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member
Kelso. There being no amendments, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0 to approve the minutes as submitted.
Presentation of Plaque to Retiring Police Officer Kevin Gill
Chief Shawn Butler presented retiring police officer Kevin Gill with a
recognition plaque for his years on the police force. He stated that Officer
Gill was forced to seek a medical disability due to job related injuries.
Privileges of the Floor
Bernadette Engel-Warning, 4288 Catalpa Drive, Independence – addressed Council
about her concerns regarding the Fowler Creek sewer debt assessment. She asked
that the city attorney issue a report, citing case law, before the city sends
out bills. Ms. Warning also urged Council Members to disclose the names of
their sources when conveying the information on the council floor.
Ed Smith, 1177 Constitution Drive, Independence – advised Council that the
hillside entrance of the Independence Pointe subdivision needs to be mowed. He
stated that the developer only cuts it when contacted by the city. Mayor
Moriconi advised he would have city staff discuss this with the developer.
Richard Warner, 4952 Sundance Drive, - requested the city sponsor a zoning text
amendment application that would add ‘day care centers’ as a permitted use in
the NC (neighborhood commercial) zone. There was a brief discussion. Council
Member Cobble moved to sponsor the text amendment as requested by Mr. Warner,
seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes. Mr. Deters
stated he would prepare a resolution for the Mayor to sign.
Bill Ahearn, 2032 Maple Tree Drive, Independence – addressed Council regarding
zoning violations he believes exists at 11513 Madison Pike. He stated that
Maple Tree Drive is not located within the city limits, but that rear yards of
the residents on his street adjoin the Madison Pike property. He stated for the
last several years that he has lived there the property has looked like a dump.
Mayor Moriconi stated he would personally meet with Mr. Ahearn to inspect the
property on Madison Pike.
Independence Courthouse/SR 17 Corridor Area Study Proposal by NKAPC
Representatives Dennis Gordon & Keith Logsdon
Mayor Moriconi introduced Dennis Gordon, Executive Director of the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission who presented a proposal that the city
partner with the NKAPC to conduct a market analysis and area study to determine
sites for future commercial development which would also include a strategic
plan for the new development. Mr. Gordon stated their proposal consisted of a
two-part plan; part one would be a market/economic analysis and part two would
be a downtown Independence small area study. Under part one of the proposal
they would suggest contracting with GEM Public Sector Services of Dayton, Ohio
to conduct the market study and detailed retail analysis. He advised that NKAPC
would contribute $13,000 toward this part of the project of the total estimated
cost of $24,500 which includes the detailed retail analysis at approximately
$4,000. He stated the second part of this proposal would consist of a detailed
plan to include proposals for land use, transportation and community facility
issues in a newly defined downtown area. He advised this would include the
selection of a planning consultant to partner with the NKAPC staff on the
downtown Independence small area study portion of the project. They stated the
project would be a collaborative effort in which input would be sought from
residents, business leaders and elected officials. It was also suggested that
the city create an advisory committee to work on the study.
Mr. Gordon stated they have partnered with other cities on similar projects.
When questioned on the appropriate time frame to complete this project, Mr.
Logsdon stated the goal would be to complete the study before the new section
of SR 17 is open. Council Members questioned Mr. Gordon on the dollars spent by
other cities on this type project as well as the cost of part two of this
proposal. Mr. Gordon advised the cost varies based on the extensiveness of the
services requested. Mr. Gordon stated he would provide council with a copy of
the study conducted for the City of Fort Wright so they could review a finished
product. The consensus of Council was to take this proposal under
consideration. Mayor Moriconi advised that action on this proposal would be
placed on a future agenda.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving the De-Annexation of Lipscomb/Schoborg Property
on ––Madison– Pike – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve the de-annexation of the Lipscomb/Schoborg property located at 4946
Madison Pike and 4948 Madison Pike. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance and
explained that these properties were erroneously included in an annexation in
1978 (Ordinance No. 2-12-78). Mayor Moriconi stated this ordinance would have a
second reading at the next regular meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Text Amendment Establishing a Retirement
Community Zone – KCPC Application No. 1807R - 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a zoning text amendment that would add the establishment of a
retirement community zone and regulations thereof. He introduced Mike Schwartz
of the NKAPC who was present to answer questions that Council had regarding
this proposed text amendment. After making some amendments, Council Member
Franzen moved to have a first reading of the ordinance with the changes that
were discussed, with Council Member Kelso seconding the motion. Roll was called
and answered 4-2 with Council Members Little and Yeager casting the two
dissenting votes. Motion carried 4-2.
Recess
At 8:38 p.m. Council Member Cobble moved for a brief recess, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried.
At 8:49 p.m. Council Member Cobble moved to return to regular session, seconded
by Council Member Little. Motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment Changing Approximately 64 Acres
Along the North Side of Mt. Zion Road from R-1C to R-1C (PUD) – KCPC
Application No. 1810R
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion and possible action on a
proposed map amendment for an approximate 63-acre area located along the north
side of Mount Zion Road, approximately 800 feet west of Bristow Road. The
developer is requesting the zone change from the current R-1C to R-1C (PUD). He
advised Council that the residents of Timber Lane, as well as other adjoining
property owners in the vicinity of the proposed development site have expressed
concerns over the PUD designation. Mayor Moriconi stated the residents have
provided written correspondence outlining their concerns and many are in
attendance at tonight’s meeting. Mayor Moriconi also advised that developer,
One-Eleven and their legal counsel, Tim Theissen are present to discuss the
development plan and answer any questions.
Mr. Theissen advised Council that the KCPC (Kenton County Planning Commission)
has recommended approval of this zone change subject to compliance with ten
conditions; one being that there is no vehicular connection between the
internal street system of the proposed development and Sawmill Drive which
connects to Timber Lane. Mr. Theissen advised the developer is happy to do
either – connect or not connect to Sawmill. Mr. Theissen and Jim Bertram of
One-Eleven presented a rendering of the proposed Stage I Development Plan. He
stated the proposed development would consist of nineteen acres residential,
twenty-five acres commercial and the remaining acreage would be open/green
space. He stated the commercial development, probably a grocery store, would
face SR 536 and the residential development would consist of ranch condominiums
and patio homes in the $200,000 price range.
Mr. Tim Kappas, 731 Timber Lane, Independence - spoke on behalf of the Timber
Lane and surrounding property owners. He asked that the Council reject the KCPC
recommendation to approve this zone change. He stated they have several
concerns with this proposed development and feel that some criteria have not
been met to warrant a zone change. Some of the concerns cited by the residents
were traffic congestion and safety , as well as the magnitude of the planned
commercial development which they feel is not consistent with the PUD zone and
in fact exceeds PUD goals.
Scott Holten, 853 Bristow Road, Independence – spoke in opposition to the
planned development and zone change. He stated that 41% retail space for a PUD
development is unusually high and feels this bends the intention of a PUD zone.
He also expressed concern that the area cannot support such a large retail
development. Mr. Holten also had signage concerns and who would maintain
fourteen acres of open space – would there be an HOA (homeowners’ association).
After discussing this for some time, Council Member Franzen moved to table this
issue until the June 5th meeting to give everyone more time to review all the
information submitted. Council Member Yeager seconded the motion. No roll call,
motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment Changing Approximately 2.4 Acres
Along the East Side of Madison Pike from R-1C to NC – KCPC Application No.
1798R
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
accept the KCPC recommendation to approve a zone change to an approximate 2.4
acre area located along the east side of Madison Pike between Harris Pike and
Sidney Drive, approximately 500 feet south of Harris Pike from R-1C to NC.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mr. Rob Haney, Director of Support
Operations for the Kenton County School District. Mr. Haney stated that Dr.
Susan Cook, Superintendent of the School District submitted a letter to the
KCPC wherein she expressed the District’s concern with expanding the commercial
zone so near a school facility. Mr. Haney stated it is the opinion of the Board
of Education and the ’’School District’ staff that the zone change request
should be denied. Council Member Cobble wanted to know which parcels the school
wanted and the intended use by the school. Mr. Bridges objected to this and Mr.
Deters concurred stating that the intended use by someone that may be
condemning a property is not relevant, and probably inappropriate, to whether
this recommendation is in conformance with the plan.
A discussion ensued between the Council and property owner, Gailen Bridges.
Council expressed concerns that retail businesses would go in. Mr. Bridges
asserted he would be using the two existing houses on his property as
professional office space and that he did not seek PO (professional office)
zone as that zone requires a minimum of five acres. Council discussed with Mike
Schwartz about imposing a condition that only professional offices be
permitted. Mr. Schwartz advised that the city could clarify that any change of
use, other than professional office would be considered a major change, thereby
requiring an application be made.
Council Member Cobble commented that while she agrees that this zone is in
agreement with the Comprehensive Plan, as does the NKAPC Staff and KCPC, her
only concern is that she never wants to see commercial/retail development
across from the school. She is concerned about the students, parents and
faculty, being attracted to stores selling pop, candy, etc. She stated since
the Stage I plan is for professional offices, which she feels would have a low
impact on the area; she is moving to read the proposed ordinance to approve the
KCPC recommendation. Council Member Kelso agreed and seconded her motion. She
stated she would like conditional language regarding professional office use in
the ordinance.
Roll was called and answered with three yeahs and three no votes cast by
Council Members Franzen, Little and Yeager. Mr. Deters stated that since the
Mayor cannot vote on zoning issues that the tie vote amounts to no action.
There was some objection voiced by some of the Council Members regarding this
counsel as they felt this was just an underlying motion, not the enactment of
the ordinance.
Mayor Moriconi advised the issue would be brought back for a second reading at
the May 15, 2006 council meeting.
Award Bid for the 2006 Street Repairs Program
Mayor Moriconi presented the bid tabulation results for the Independence 2006
Street Program for repairs to Kimberly Drive, Kimberly Place and Elizabeth
Drive. He stated that Prus Construction’s base bid was the lowest submitted at
$299.511.20. Contractors were asked to provide both a base bid for a basic
overlay and an alternate bid which consisted of a total reconstruction of the
street. Chief Butler explained this was done to see if it would be affordable
to do a complete reconstruction, but the alternate bids have come in higher
than expected. He stated the base bid came in as estimated by the city
engineer.
Council Member Cobble moved to award the 2006 Street Repairs Program base bid
to Prus Construction in the amount of $299,511.20, seconded by Council Member
Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Award Bid for the Madison Pike Sidewalk Project
Mayor Moriconi presented the bid tabulation results of the Madison Pike
Sidewalk Program. He stated two bids were received with the low bid of
$123,505.00 being submitted by RFH Construction. He stated the city engineer is
recommending the bid be awarded to RFH. Council Member Kelso moved to award the
Madison Pike Sidewalk Project to RFH Construction, seconded by Council Member
Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated the Business of the Month for May would be selected by
Council Member Cobble. Council Member Cobble stated she has chosen Wicklund
Florist to be the recipient.
Mayor Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Discussion Regarding Common Areas in New Developments
Council Member Cobble introduced discussion regarding the common areas,
detention ponds, etc. in the new residential developments. She expressed
concern that this could become a problem and expense in the future if the city
would become responsible for the maintenance of these areas. Council had a
brief discussion about measures that could be put in place to prevent problems
in the future.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Kelso made a motion to adjourn
the meeting, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried and the
meeting adjourned at 10:48 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
MAY 15, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 15,
2006 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present. JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Mike Little, and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Recognition/ May Business of the Month
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member JoAnne Cobble had selected
Wicklund Florist as the May Business of the Month recipient and presented a
plaque to Doris King.
Approval of the May 1, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the May 1, 2006
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so move, with second by Council Member
Cobble. There being no amendments, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0 to approve the May 1, 2006 minutes as submitted.
Privileges of the Floor
Jenny Burkich, 26 Sidney Drive, advised council she was never notified of a
zone change that abuts her property.
Ruby Noble, 26 Sidney Drive also addressed Council regarding her concerns about
the Bridges/Smock map amendment request and asked where the easement would be
since there is no roadway there now. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Bridges if he
would like to address that regarding a small piece of land on the east side
that would remain residential. Mr. Bridges stated the highway department took a
small part of the property and made a curb cut off Sidney Drive to access the
residential area. Ms. Noble stated she would like to know what is going to be
in her back yard, which she prefers nothing to be there. Mayor Moriconi stated
he thinks they are going to realign Sidney Drive to make a new intersection
with Simon Kenton High School but will leave a curb cut. Ms. Noble asked if
this would force the residents on Sidney to tie into city sewers. Mayor
Moriconi stated it would not.
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, stated he understood the city sponsored this
zone change for Mr. Bridges in the beginning, but then the school board
objected because they want to acquire this property by imminent domain. He
stated they are doing what they did not want Mr. Bridges to do with his own
property.
Ray Baldwin, 34 Sidney Dr. stated he has lived on Sidney Drive for 46 years and
at one time the city tried to annex Sidney but was unsuccessful, but several
years later they did allow the city to annex Sidney Drive. He stated the two
homes facing the road are zoned business and the rest is zoned residential. He
stated he spoke to the planning commission and was advised there would be a
road to get to the lot but could be changed if he talked to the mayor. Mayor
Moriconi stated he did not have that kind of power and it was between the state
and the property owners.
Tim Reese, Centerline Development stated he came before the city in March 2006
with plans of a new subdivision named Hickory Valley that will be located next
to Sycamore Creek off Fowler Creek Road. He stated the subdivision will connect
Clover Ridge, Clover Trails, Claiborne, and Sycamore Creek. He stated this
subdivision has been awarded the “Parade of Homes” advised council they must be
ready to build ten homes by June 1, 2006 and completed by the first week of
October 2006 and asked council to consider changing the ordinance that imposes
a brick wrap on the houses to brick front homes.
John McCauly, General Manager of Ryan Homes presented a handout and went thru
the packet showing views of the type houses with brick or stone fronts.
Mr. Deters stated the ordinance would have to be amended which would take two
readings.
Council Member Franzen asked why this is just now being presented to council.
Tim Reese stated when they met with the Parade of Homes and presented the
ordinance with the restrictions it was brought to his attention.
Council Member Cobble stated the city wants quality housing and that is why the
restrictions were added. Council Member Cobble asked if there would be a
Homeowners Association. Mr. Reese stated there will. Council Member Franzen
asked Mr. Reese if there would be a problem with doing brick wraps on the homes
that will be seen from the main road and then changing to brick fronts further
back in the subdivision. Mr. Reese stated they have plans to do brick wraps on
certain homes that are on corner lots and also as you enter the subdivision.
Mayor Moriconi stated a first reading could not be done at this meeting and
would have to be done at the June 5th meeting. Mr. Reese asked if he could
bring back some drawings to show the lots they want to do the brick wrap and
council could then add or delete. Mr. Deters stated they do not have the
specifications for a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses – 1st Reading
Council Member Cobble made a motion to move the proposed ordinance regarding
sexually oriented businesses to the next item for discussion before Old
Business is discussed with second by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Moriconi stated a few years ago a number of cities came together and
contributed to a fund to help regulate sexually oriented businesses. He stated
Mr. Gary Edmondson, County Attorney and Mr. Mike Schwartz from NKAPC are in
attendance to speak on this subject.
Mr. Edmondson stated the hearings have been held and Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission has recommended what the cities involved need to do in
terms of zoning and the ordinance will require city approval. He stated it is
long in language but is required to make it legally binding.
Mr. Schwartz stated the Industrial Park Zone has been removed from the list of
permitted zones wherein the businesses would be located. He stated as of now
the city has no zones that these uses would be applied to but because of size,
growth, and potential future annexations, NKAPC feels it is important to adopt
the full text of the regulations opposed to the “no zone scenario”.
Mr. Deters read the summary of the proposed ordinance.
Ordinance No. 2006-0-07 – Approving Map Amendment by Owners, Smock/Bridges/
Haynes - 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-0-07,
approving a map amendment submitted by owners, Smock, Bridges and Haynes,
changing approximately a 2.4 acre site located along the east side of Madison
Pike from R-1C to NC-KCPC, application number 1798R. Mr. Deters read the
Ordinance.
Motion was made by Council Member Cobble with second by Council Member Cook to
adopt Ordinance No. 2006-0-07. Roll was called and answered with three ayes
cast by Council Members Cobble, Cook and Kelso with three nays cast by Council
Members Franzen, Little and Yeager. Mr. Deters stated the ordinance is
officially non-active on the second reading and unless council adopts an
ordinance overturning this ordinance, Kenton County Planning Commissions
recommendation stands.
Ordinance No. 2006-0-08 – De-Annexation of Lipscomb/Schoborg Property – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a second reading to de-annex the Lipscomb/
Schoborg property. There being no discussion, Mayor Moriconi directed Mr.
Deters, City Attorney to read Ordinance No. 2006-0-08. Motion was made by
Council Member Little with second by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2006-0-09 – Approving Text Amendment Establishing a Retirement
Community Zone-Possible 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a second reading on Ordinance No. 2006-0-09
and asked Mr. Deters to read.
Council Member Kelso made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2006-0-09 to
approve the text amendment with second by Council Member Franzen.
Mayor Moriconi asked council for discussion. Council Member Little made a
motion to amend the ordinance to add further language to say, “If the
retirement community applies for non-profit status it will be considered a
private entity. The city will assume no financial responsibility for streets,
sidewalks, streetlights, or any common areas for their construction and or
maintenance. Future financial responsibility for the above mentioned items will
be the sole responsibility of the developer and or homeowners association if
one is formed”, second by Council Member Kelso.
Council Member Cobble stated the ordinance would need another first reading due
to language changes or sent back to NKAPC. Mr. Deters stated he is concerned if
the language is totally appropriate and valid and not violating the law.
Council Member Franzen stated if possible she would like to have a first
reading and then pull the ordinance at the second reading if there are problems
with the language.
Council Member Cobble asked Mr. Schwartz of NKAPC for his advice regarding the
language amendments. He stated in his experience that council is the sole body
other than the planning commission to apply for text amendments and council can
add conditions they deem appropriate without it coming back before the planning
commission.
Council Member Yeager stated she still has a problem with Stage II Development
not coming back to council for final approval. Mayor Moriconi asked if that
could be done. Mr. Schwartz stated he did not feel it was appropriate for
cities to do this function.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0. Mr. Deters read
amended Ordinance 2006-0-09 with additional language proposed by Council Member
Little. Mayor Moriconi asked for a roll call vote. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving the Amended 2005/2006 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a first reading to amend the 2005/2006
Budget and asked Mr. Deters to read. Council Member Cobble asked to discuss the
issue before Mr. Deters did a first reading. Council Member Cobble asked why
there was a big difference in the building permits on the projected budget.
Mayor Moriconi stated permits have been down from last year. Council Member
Cobble asked why $33,000.00 was expended for the T21 Sidewalk Grant when it
hasn’t started. Chief Butler stated there have been expenses incurred from
engineering fees and easements. Council Member Cook stated the budget shows
$4,000.00 was donated for the “Support Our Troops” but expenses are showing
$5,100.00. Finance Director, Terri Hudson stated $4,000.00 was anticipated in
donations and the expenses were $5,100.00. She stated a lot of the money was
used in postage to mail packages overseas. Council Member Cook stated she has a
problem with taxpayers being responsible for any portion of the money spent
since it was supposed to be handled by donations only. Mr. Deters stated the
city is not allowed to give away tax payers money, period. Council Member Cook
asked the mayor to explain the $5,000.00 listed under revenues for the
Amphitheater. Mayor Moriconi stated it was a donation to be used for the
Amphitheater and it was recognized as a separate line item for audit purposes,
but it has not been spent to date.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to move line item #346 in the amount of
$179,100.00 to a new line number item #367 because the tap-in fees were never
to be put in the Fowler Creek Fund. The tap-in fees should be put in the
general sewer fund, second by Council Member Yeager “to get it on the floor.”
Mayor Moriconi asked Ms. Hudson if she saw a problem with that motion. She
stated historically that is the fund it has always been budgeted in. Mayor
Moriconi asked if there was a problem doing this from an accounting standpoint.
Ms. Hudson stated not that she knew of unless there was a restriction for it to
remain in the Fowler Creek fund. Council Member Little questioned Ms. Hudson if
the funds are in the appropriate line item of the budget.
A discussion ensued between Council Member Cobble and Mr. Deters. Mr. Deters
stated he thought it inappropriate unless the tap-in fees for the Fowler Creek
sewers were kept separate from other tap-in fees collected by the city.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a roll call vote on Council Member Cobble’s motion.
Roll was called and answered with 3 yes votes by Council Members Cobble, Cook
and Kelso and 3 nays by Council Members Yeager, Little and Franzen. Mayor
Moriconi broke the tie vote by casting a yes vote to move funds to a new line
item. Motion carried 4-3. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to read the proposed
amended 2005/2006 budget.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving the 2006/2007 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to council a first reading of the 2006/2207 budget,
with highlights of his proposed budget.
·   Payroll Tax Revenues Increase
·   Budget Surplus of over $83,000.00
·   General Fund Surplus Increase
·   Employees Raises 3%
·   One New Police Officer in January 2007
·   Lease to Own New Backhoe for Public Works
·   Spending for Roads based on 5 year plan
·   Rising of Healthcare and Fuel Costs
Mayor Moriconi asked if anyone had any questions before a first reading is
done. Council Member Cobble stated she would still like to have an open
discussion in honor of the residents that spoke to her. Council Member Cobble
stated she wants to amend the budget to have the tap-in fees put into the sewer
fund and out of the fowler creek fund. Council Member Cobble stated she would
like to see the employees get the 3% raise or C.O.L.A, whichever would be the
smaller of the two.
Council Member Cook stated the budget shows an estimated 15% increase in Health
Care but Mayor Moriconi made a statement last year that you were considering
the employees pay a portion of their health care costs. Mayor Moriconi stated
that was instituted last year. Chief Butler stated the plan was lowered
considerably with increased deductibles, and increased out of pocket expenses.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to move item #348 to a new line item #369,
second by Council Member Cook. Roll was called and answered with three yes
votes by Council Members Cobble, Cook and Kelso and 3 no votes cast by Council
Members Franzen, Little and Yeager. Mayor Moriconi broke the Council’s tie vote
by casting a no vote resulting in a defeat of the motion.
Council Member Kelso stated he would like to see improvements made in the parks
and asked if extra reserves could be budgeted to the parks and recreation fund
if possible.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to move line item #305, storm sewers moved
to a new line item #375 under general sewer funds, second by Council Member
Little. Roll was called. Motion carried 5-1.
Mayor Moriconi asked Council Member Kelso if he had a dollar amount in mind for
the parks.
Council Member Cook stated she would rather see debt serviced by paying off the
Senior Center Building. Chief Butler advised the outstanding debt on the Senior
Center is about $205,000.00. Council Member Cook made a motion to pay off the
debt to the Senior Center, second by Council Member Little. Roll was called.
Motion carried 6-0.
Council Member Cobble made a motion to table the first reading of the 2006/07
budget and moved to the June 5, 2006 meeting, second by Council Member Cook.
Roll was called. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Mayor Moriconi asked Chief Butler if he had anything to report. Chief Butler
stated he has received a letter from the Transportation Cabinet re the
Resolution that was passed to lower the speed limit on Fowler Creek Road and
they have agreed to lower the speed limit from 55 to 45 miles per hour.
City Attorney Report – ––Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters had nothing to report.
Miscellaneous Discussion
Council Member Cobble made a motion stating the improperly collected sewer
surcharge collected from all the city sewer users since January 1, 1999, be
refunded by the city at the earliest possible time, second by Council Member
Cook. Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Deters if any fees had been illegally
collected and he stated no, not in his opinion. Roll was called and answered
with two yes votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook and four no votes
cast by Council Members Little, Yeager, Franzen and Kelso. Motion was defeated
4-2.
Council Member Cook stated she would like to know when Council Member Kelso
intends to pay back the $420.00 that he spent on signs and apologizing for the
inflammatory language he used in front of the mayor and council several months
ago. Mayor Moriconi stated this has already been discussed and now is not the
time. Council Member Cook stated she tried to do it quietly. Mayor Moriconi
stated the signs were for the Vision Committee and the city did approve that
committee.
Adjournment
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, second by Council
Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 9:10
p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 5, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 15,
2006 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present. JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Mike Little, and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Recognition/ June Business of the Month
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Cook had selected Jenmark Car Wash
as the June Business of the Month recipient and presented a plaque to Gene
Daniels.
Recognition – Mary Lou Kaub for her Donation to the City
Mayor Moriconi introduced resident, Mary Lou Kaub and presented her with a Key
to the City, in appreciation for her recent donation of a twenty-five foot
right of way on her Peach Drive property which will provide access to Memorial
Park.
Approval of the May 15, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the May 15, 2006
council meeting. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second by Council Member
Franzen. Several corrections were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 to approve the minutes as amended.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi noted resident Tim Kappes, 731 Timber Lane, signed in to address
Council regarding the Mount Zion Road/Bristow Road zone change request by One-
Eleven Developers. Mr. Kappes requested to reserve his comments until later in
the meeting when this issue is discussed by the Council.
NKAPC Proposal to Conduct an Independence Downtown Small Area Study
(Courthouse/SR 17 Corridor Area) - Keith Logsdon, NKAPC Representative
Mayor Moriconi stated that Mr. Keith Logsdon from the Planning Commission was
present to respond to any questions Council might have regarding their proposal
to partner with the city in conducting a market/economic analysis and land use
plan for the downtown area. He stated this proposal was first introduced at the
May 1, 2006 meeting. Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor for Council’s comments
and questions. A lengthy discussion ensued wherein Council members expressed
interest in reviewing the Visionary Committee’s report prior to accepting this
proposal. Discussion also centered on the cost. Mr. Logsdon confirmed that the
Planning Commission would contribute $13,000 of the estimated $24,500 for Part
I of the proposal; Part I being the market/economic analysis, leaving the city
with a contribution amount of $11,500. He stated the estimated cost to the city
for Part II, a land use plan, would be approximately $80,000. Also discussed
was the time frame to conduct the analysis and land use plan. Mr. Logsdon
indicated the project would take ten months from August 2006, so they would
need to commence as soon as possible.
Council Member Franzen moved to accept both Parts of the Downtown Small Area
Study proposal submitted by NKAPC in an amount not to exceed $91,500, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. Further discussion ensued. Council Member Kelso
suggested the motion be withdrawn. He stated he feels the Vision Committee will
save some time and he did not think it would hurt to wait a couple of months
before acting on this proposal. Council Member Little suggested the City pay
the full amount of $24,500 for Part I and ask if the Planning Commission would
contribute $13,000 to Part II instead of Part I. Mr. Logsdon stated he was not
authorized to make that decision and would have to see if that was acceptable
to the Planning Commission.
Council Member Franzen amended her motion by moving to accept Part I of the
Downtown Small Area Study proposal submitted by NKAPC in the amount of $24,500
with the city paying the full amount, if necessary. Roll was called and
answered with two yes votes by Council Members Franzen and Yeager and four no
votes cast by Council Members Cook, Kelso, Little and Cobble. Motion defeated
4-2.
Mayor Moriconi advised this issue would be placed on the June 19, 2006 meeting
agenda, if the city received an answer from the Planning Commission regarding
the request by the city to re-direct their $13,000 contribution to Part II of
the proposal.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment Changing Approximately 64 Acres
Along the North Side of ––––Mt. Zion Road–– from R-1C to R-1C (PUD) – KCPC
Application No. 1810R
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a map amendment for a 63-acre parcel located along the north side of
Mount Zion Road approximately 800 feet west of Bristow Road. The applicant, One
Eleven Developers, LLC is requesting the zone be changed from R-1C to R-1C
(PUD). Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mr. Jim Bertram of One Eleven and
his legal counsel Mr. Tim Theissen.
Mr. Bertram distributed a revised concept map of the proposed development. Mr.
Theissen stated that the revised development plan has seventy foot lots,
thereby eliminating three lots in the previous plan. Mr. Theissen also advised
Council that the developer has met with four of the Timber Lane residents to
discuss their concerns, which included increased traffic and property values.
Mr. Theissen stated that in addition to the ten conditions placed on the
development by the KCPC, the developer has agreed to add brick wrap on all four
sides of the buildings and construct a twenty-five foot landscape easement that
will border Timber Lane on lots 16 and 17. Mr. Bertram advised the landscape
easement would be planted during Phase I of the development so the foliage can
get established.
Mayor and Council commented that it was good to see the developer and residents
working together to come to a mutual agreement. Mr. Deters suggested making the
minimum of 70 feet of frontage on all residential lots a thirteenth condition
on approving this development.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to
provide a first reading of the ordinance to approve the map amendment subject
to compliance of the thirteen conditions. Mr. Deters gave a first reading of
the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised the ordinance would be presented
for a second reading in two weeks.
Proposed Ordinance - Hickory Valley Subdivision – Amendment to Ordinance No.
2005-O-02
Pursuant to a request by Tim Reese of Centerline Development at the May 15,
2006 council meeting, Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed ordinance to Council
that would revise Condition 5 imposed on the Hickory Valley Subdivision. Mr.
Reese addressed Council by stating that this subdivision has been awarded the
“Parade of Homes” location and the builders must be ready to begin construction
of ten homes by June 1, 2006 with a completion date by the first week of
October 2006. He stated the builders who will be constructing the houses are
requesting that the conditional brick wrap be changed in the ordinance to allow
them to construct a brick front instead of a complete first floor wrap.
There was a brief discussion by Council wherein some Members expressed concern
that if this request is granted for one developer then other developers will
follow suit and the city will be flooded with requests to eliminate the
condition of first floor brick wraps in other developments.
Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to give the proposed ordinance with the
amended text as requested by Mr. Reese a first reading. Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance that would strikethrough condition number five and insert
new language for condition number five. The proposed amendment is as follows:
5.   That the first floor of all dwelling units built in the development shall
be brick wrapped, except for isolated areas not directly supported by a
concrete foundation- an example of such isolated area would be cantilevered
walls, bay windows and the like.
5 .   That the first floor of all dwelling units built in the development shall
have a brick front. That the units on Lots 1 and 203 shall have a first floor
brick wrap. That the dwelling units on all corner lots shall have a first floor
brick front on the bottom half of both sides of the first floor of the dwelling
unit. These requirements for brick wrap apply except for isolated areas not
directly supported by a concrete foundation – an example of such isolated areas
would be cantilevered walls, bay windows and the like.
Mayor Moriconi stated the proposed ordinance would be presented for a second
reading and vote at the next council meeting.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-09 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading an ordinance that would amend the
zoning text ordinance relating to the regulation of sexually oriented
businesses or adult businesses. Mr. Deters read a summary version of Ordinance
No. 2006-O-09.
Council Member Cook moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-09, seconded by Council
Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Recess
At 8:20 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to have a brief recess, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting resumed 8:
29 p.m.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-10 - Approving the Amended 2005/2006 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend Ordinance No. 2005-O-18 adopting the 2005/06 fiscal year
budget for the city. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2006-O-10.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-10, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. A brief discussion ensued wherein Council Member Cobble
and Council Member Cook expressed some concerns they had with overruns in some
line items. Council Member Little responded that many line items budgeted more
funds than was actually spent. Mrs. Terri Hudson, Finance Director explained
that to operate efficiently, it was not practical to present each and every
possible line item overrun to the Council for an amendment to the budget. Mayor
Moriconi also advised that each amendment would then require two readings of an
ordinance and publication costs of the ordinances would be incurred. Mrs.
Hudson also commented that the total revised budget saw an increase of $18,000
in revenue. She also informed Council that the figures in this amended budget
are projections for expenses through June 30, 2006.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered four ayes and
two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2006-0-11 – Approving Text Amendment Establishing a Retirement
Community Zone-2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a zoning text amendment adding regulations for retirement communities.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2006-O-11.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-11, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with three yes votes cast
by Council Members Kelso, Franzen and Little and three no votes cast by Council
Members Yeager, Cobble and Cook. Mayor Moriconi broke the tie with a yes vote.
Council Member Cobble stated that because this is a zoning issue, she does not
believe the Mayor is eligible to vote. Mr. Deters stated he would research the
matter and report to the Mayor.
Proposed Ordinance - Approving the 2006/2007 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve the city budget for the 2006/07 fiscal year. Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a first reading. Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion.
Council Member Cobble moved to abolish the building and zoning revenue line
items and contract for the city’s building and zoning services with NKAPC’s
“One-Stop Shop” service, seconded by Council Member Cook. A brief discussion
ensued, roll was called and answered with two yes votes and four no votes cast
by Council Members Kelso, Little, Yeager and Franzen. Motion defeated 4-2.
Council Member Cobble also voiced concerns with the proposed budget,
specifically employee health insurance benefits, janitorial services for the
Senior Center and Municipal Center and street sign expenses. Chief Butler
advised Council that the city is actively shopping health plans for the
employees with the emphasis being on keeping the premium costs down, which will
effectively raise each employee’s out of pocket expenses with higher co-pays
and annual deductibles. Council Member Franzen commented that she supports this
budget and feels it is important to provide good wages and benefits to maintain
good employees.
Council Member Cobble moved to require all employees to pay ten percent toward
the cost of their health insurance premium, seconded by Council Member Cook.
Roll was called and answered with two yes votes and four not votes cast by
Council Members Little, Yeager, Franzen and Kelso. Motion was defeated 4-2.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi advised the second reading of
this proposed budget would be presented at the June 19th council meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment for an Approximate 12.5 Acre
Area located Northwest of the Intersection of Stablewatch Drive and Stonemill
Drive – KCPC Application No. 1815R - 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a map amendment, from R-1C to R-1D, for an approximate 12.5 acre area
located approximately 700 feet northwest of the intersection of Stablewatch
Drive and Stonemill Drive. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance that would
approve the requested zone subject to one condition; that the maximum density
of the development not exceed 2.7 dwelling units per net acre. Mayor Moriconi
advised this ordinance would be presented for a second reading at the next
regular meeting in two weeks.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Pay Plan & Classification for 2006/07 – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading an employee Pay Plan and
Classification for the 2006-07 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance.
Council Member Cobble asked who prepared the minimum and maximum pay ranges for
each position. Chief Butler replied that a study was conducted by NKADD a few
years ago and the ranges are indexed every year by the cost of living. Council
Member Cobble expressed displeasure at using that method and moved to amend the
proposed pay plan to reflect the pay ranges of other third class cities,
seconded by Council Member Cook. Council Member Little asked Council Member
Cobble if she had any documentation to discuss regarding the pay ranges of
other third class city employees. Council Member Cobble replied he is good at
that and recommended he do that for the Council. Roll was called and answered
with two yes votes and four no votes cast by Council Members Little, Yeager,
Franzen and Kelso. Motion was defeated 4-2.
Resolution No. 2006-R-09 – Authorizing the Mayor to enter into the MRA
Cooperative Contract for 2006/07
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-09 that would adopt and approve
the execution of a Municipal Aid Co-op Program Contract between the City and
the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2006.
Mr. Deters read the Resolution No. 2006-R-09.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-09, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Award Bid for Crowe Road Resurfacing
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the City Engineer’s bid tabulation sheet
and recommendation letter to award the bid for the resurfacing of Crowe Road to
the lower bidder.
Council Member Cobble moved to award the bid for the resurfacing of Crowe Road
to the low bidder, Barrett Paving Materials in the amount of $57,980.00,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – ––Jed K. Deters–
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Cody Road
Council Member Cobble commented that Cody Road is deteriorating badly and
suggested the city and county work together to perform some remedial repairs.
Adjournment
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, second by Council
Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 9:41
p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 19, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 19,
2006 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso,
Mike Little, and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Approval of the June 5, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the June 5, 2006
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member
Cobble. Council Member Little requested an amendment be made that would include
a question he had asked Council Member Cobble during discussion of the proposed
Pay Plan. There was a brief debate between Council Members Little and Cobble.
Mayor Moriconi directed the City Clerk to review the video of the meeting and
include the discussion. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0 to approve the minutes with any possible amendments regarding the
discussion of the Pay Plan.
Privileges of the Floor
Goldie Lakes & Becky Coldiron, President and Vice President of the FRG (Family
Readiness Group) for the National Guard 940th MP Unit, Walton, Kentucky
addressed Council by expressing their appreciation for the city adopting the
940th Unit through the America Supporting Americans (ASA) organization and
supporting them during their tour in Iraq last year. Mrs. Lakes advised Council
that the Walton Armory would be holding a Freedom Salute ceremony for the Unit
on Sunday, June 25th at Simon Kenton High School and invited the city officials
to attend, as the Unit would be making a presentation to the City. Mayor
Moriconi thanked the ladies and stated he would be attending the ceremony.
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, Independence – addressed the Mayor about his
previous request in March for a copy of the Fowler Creek Sewer Assessment Audit
report prepared by the city attorney. Mayor Moriconi responded that the report
was now finalized and he could obtain a copy from the City Clerk by Friday.
Request to Vacate Far Hills Drive by Property Owners William Clark & Lawrence
Brueggemann
Mayor Moriconi stated that property owners on Far Hills Drive are proposing to
vacate approximately 200 feet of the street, as well as a proposed relocation
of an unimproved section of the street. He stated that the property owners’
legal counselor, Mills Rouse has been working with the city attorney, and the
city engineer has reviewed the proposed request and provided a written report
of their findings for the Council to consider.
Mr. Rouse addressed Council and stated he was representing property owners,
William Clark and Lawrence Brueggemann. He advised Council that his clients
would like the unimproved part of Far Hills Drive that is on their properties
vacated and relocated as shown on a proposed plat to be dedicated. He stated
there is adequate room for vehicles to turn around on the proposed location. A
discussion ensued regarding an adjoining property owner which Council felt
should be involved. Mr. Deters advised Council that the owners would not be
making demands on the city to improve the roadway once it is relocated.
Council Member Franzen moved to grant the property owners’ request to permit a
portion of Far Hills Drive be vacated and relocated, without requiring a cul-
de-sac at the northern terminus as recommended by the city engineer. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-11 – Approving a Map Amendment Changing Approximately 64
Acres Along the North Side of Mt. Zion Road from R-1C to R-1C (PUD) – KCPC
Application No. 1810R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a zoning map amendment for a 63-acre parcel located along the north
side of Mount Zion Road approximately 800 feet west of Bristow Road
. The proposed amendment would change the zone from R-1C to R-1C (PUD). Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2006-O-11. Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mr.
Tim Theissen, legal counsel for the developer, who addressed concerns of Ehmet
Hayes who lives near the site in question. Mr. Theissen addressed those
concerns by advising Council that the steep hillside, which will remain
undeveloped, would be maintained by the homeowners’ association. A brief
discussion ensued regarding Phase II of the proposed development and the
possibility of additional commercial development in the surrounding area.
Council Member Cobble commented that she feels a market analysis should have
been done to see if this area could support commercial development.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-11. Roll
was called and answered with four ayes and two nays cast by Council Members
Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
NKAPC Proposal to Conduct an Independence Downtown Small Area Study
(Courthouse/SR 17 Corridor Area) - Keith Logsdon, NKAPC Representative
Mayor Moriconi re-introduced the proposal by the Northern Kentucky Area
Planning Commission to conduct a “Downtown Independence Small Area Study” and
yielded the floor to Keith Logsdon of the Planning Commission. Mr. Logsdon
reported the $13,000 the Planning Commission would contribute for this project
had to be specifically used for the market/economic analysis portion of the
study and could not be used for the land use study. He stated the funds would
not have to be allocated right away, but it would be necessary to begin the
process of selecting a private consultant that would work with the NKAPC staff
on the land use plan. Mayor Moriconi advised that the City could begin the
first part of the study, which would be the market analysis, and then if the
fee proposal from the private consultant is too high the Planning Commission
staff could develop a land use plan at a substantially lower cost. A brief
discussion ensued about the area to be studied and the recommendation from the
Vision Committee.
Council Member Franzen moved to proceed with the Downtown Small Area Study by
doing the market/economic analysis portion of the study and interviewing
private consultants for the land use plan. Council Member Kelso seconded the
motion. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by
Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance - Hickory Valley Subdivision – Amendment to Ordinance No.
2005-O-02
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2005-O-02. The proposed amendment would change condition
number five, under Section I, that currently requires a brick wrap on the first
floor of all dwelling units. Mr. Tim Reese of Centerline Development requested
that condition five be amended to require a brick front, with only certain lots
being required to have a first floor brick wrap. He stated this request was
being made at the urging of several builders in the development, who feel this
requirement significantly increases the cost of the houses and noted that many
homebuyers would prefer to add other amenities rather than a brick wrap. Mayor
Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-12, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. A discussion ensued. Mr. Reese distributed photos of
houses with both brick fronts and brick wraps. Council Members voiced their
concerns about rescinding a condition of this development that has been imposed
on other developments as well; and shared their concern that if this request
was granted that other developers would make the same request of the City.
Other issues discussed were lot sizes, the connector street to the adjoining
subdivision that does not have the brick wrap as a condition of the
development, and adhering to building standards the City has put in place.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi asked the Clerk to call the
roll. Roll was called and answered with two ayes cast by Council Members Kelso
and Cobble, and four nays cast by Council Members Cook, Franzen, Little and
Yeager. Motion was defeated 2-4 and Ordinance No. 2006-O-12 was not enacted.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-13 – Approving a Map Amendment for an Approximate 12.5
Acre Area located Northwest of the Intersection of Stablewatch Drive and
Stonemill Drive – KCPC Application No. 1815R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a map amendment, from R-1C to R-1D, for an approximate 12.5 acre area
located approximately 700 feet northwest of the intersection of Stablewatch
Drive and Stonemill Drive. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2006-O-13.
Adam Chaney of WWB Development was present to answer Council questions. Council
Member Yeager asked if the homes in the development had brick wraps. He stated
that this development is an extension of the Claiborne Subdivision which was
never required to have a brick wrap on the units. He commented that they have
always done a brick front. He went on to say that homebuyers prefer to spend
their dollars on other amenities such as a morning room or extra room over the
garage. Council Member Little stated this is a different situation than the
Hickory Valley development.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-13, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-14 - Approving the 2006/2007 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve the city budget for the 2006/07 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read Ordinance
No. 2006-O-14.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-14, seconded by
Council Member Little. Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion.
Council Member Cobble stated that she wants it documented that she feels that
all employees should contribute ten-percent of the cost of the health insurance
provided by the city. She also expressed concerns regarding the auditor’s
reclassification of the Fowler Creek sewer funds. She asked that Mr. Deters
research the ordinance that mandated the $300 tap-in fees. Mayor Moriconi asked
the city’s Finance Director, Mrs. Hudson to address Council Member Cobble’s
concern. Mrs. Hudson advised the Fowler Creek funds have not been expended,
just re-allocated in the audit report, to be consistent with the report from
prior years. She stated she could provide Council with an analysis of the
allocation through the last several years.
A lengthy discussion ensued regarding the 1998 Lease/Merger Agreement with the
Sanitation District, associated tap-in fees, sewer maintenance fees and the
Fowler Creek Debt Reduction assessment. Council Member Cobble expressed her
opinion that the revenues from the various charges have not been allocated to
the proper funds. Mrs. Hudson advised that the revenue from the various charges
are available in the City’s investment bank accounts and if it is determined
that specific charges should be booked to another fund it would just require a
simple account transfer.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with four ayes
and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-15 – Adopting the Pay Plan & Classification for 2006/07 –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-15, an
employee Pay Plan and Classification for the 2006-07 fiscal year. Mr. Deters
read Ordinance No. 2006-O-15.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-15, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. There was a brief discussion wherein Council Member
Cobble expressed concern that the Pay Plan was not based exclusively on third
class city salary ranges or the use of the Northern Kentucky Area Development
District employee compensation study.
Roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council
Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Text Amendment Establishing a Retirement
Community Zone – KCPC Application No. 1807R - New 1st ––––Reading––
Mayor Moriconi presented, for a new first reading, the proposed ordinance that
would approve a zoning text amendment establishing regulations for retirement
communities. He commented that the ordinance verbage had taken over a year to
draft and was ultimately defeated at the last meeting (June 5, 2006) council
meeting. Mayor Moriconi stated that Section D, regarding the Application and
Processing, has received some language amendments, prompting a basis for
submission to Council for further consideration.
A brief discussion ensued regarding the proposed changes in the ordinance
language wherein Council Member Cobble referred to Mr. Deters legal counsel,
which is in conflict with the language being proposed. She asked how he could
support this amendment. Mr. Deters responded that when asked to draft an
ordinance, he gives his legal opinion on the matter, but will draft the
ordinance as directed by the Council Member that wants to introduce it to the
Council, and then it is up to the Council to choose whether or not to enact it.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read
the proposed ordinance.
Resolution No. 2006-R-10 – Approving the Application of a Zoning Text Amendment
Regarding Fences on Corner Lots
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-10 that would support a text
amendment application to make a modification that would allow fencing on corner
lots to extend beyond the rear corner of the residence. He stated that the city
has received numerous requests by the residents to make this modification, as
it would allow them to fence in a larger section of the rear yards of a corner
lot.
Annie Wuestefeld, Zoning Administrator, advised Council that this was prompted
by a recent case that came before the Board of Adjustment. She stated there are
many violations throughout the city; the majority of which were put up
improperly and without permits. Mrs. Wuestefeld stated that the recent case
before the Board to allow the illegal fence resulted in the Board ordering the
fence removed. Mr. Deters stated that the Board members did not see a basis of
this type restriction in the zoning text and would like to see it changed.
Mayor Moriconi commented that this Resolution would support an application and
provide the city with a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-10, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Mr. Deters read the Resolution. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Text Amendment Relating to Day Care Facilities
as Permitted Uses in the NC Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a text amendment adding day care facilities to the list of permitted
uses within the NC (Neighborhood Commercial) zone. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – ––Jed K. Deters–
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated that Council Member Franzen would select the July
Business of the Month recipient. Council Member Franzen stated she would like
to recognize Charles Deters.
Mayor Moriconi advised the July 3rd council meeting would be cancelled, thereby
having only one council meeting in July.
Adjournment
Council Member Kelso made a motion to adjourn the meeting, second by Council
Member Cook. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 9:10
p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 24, 2006
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, July 24,2006 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409
Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook,
Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
§   Resolution No. 2006-R-11 – Authorizing and Approving an Interlocal
Agreement with the Sanitation District No. 1 Transferring the Fowler Creek
Sewer System Along with All Associated Funds
§   Ordinance No. 2006-O- 16 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to
Retirement Communities – 2nd Reading
§   Ordinance No. 2006-O-17 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Day
Care Facilities as a Permitted Use in the NC Zone – 2nd Reading
Resolution No. 2006-R-11 – Authorizing and Approving an Interlocal Agreement
with the Sanitation District No. 1 Transferring the Fowler Creek Sewer System
and Associated Funds
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2006-R-11 that would
authorize and approve an Interlocal Agreement with the Sanitation District
whereby the Fowler Creek Sewer System is transferred to the District along with
the associated funds, with the District assuming the responsibility for the
bond obligations. Mayor Moriconi read a prepared statement (attached herewith)
wherein he stated this proposed Agreement is the result of several months of
discussions with the District officials that would offer the City an
opportunity to transfer full ownership of the sewer system to the District
along with the responsibility of the remaining debt of the Fowler Creek Sewer
System. He stated the city would continue to collect the assessment and remit
the funds to the District for repayment of the debt and the District would
agree to make the final bond payment on this project. Mayor Moriconi stated he
is excited about this proposed Agreement as he feels this is a win-win
situation for everyone. He introduced Mr. Jeff Eger, General Manager of
Sanitation District No. 1.
Mr. Eger provided some history on the 1998 Lease/Merger Agreement with the City
wherein the District agreed to lease the sanitary sewer system from the City
while the City maintained ownership and the outstanding bond debt on the Fowler
Creek Sewer System. He also mentioned the GRW Report debt obligation and
initial estimate of $203,220 as the city’s share. He indicated that during the
last several years the District has spent an approximate $4,000,000 in
infrastructure improvements. Mr. Eger stated the Independence lines drain into
the Lakeview Pump Station, which is one of the largest in the District and will
require upgrades to handle the growing community. He stated a conservative
estimate would be several million dollars. Mr. Eger stated that he feels the
District can offer continuity in the handling of the debt, unlike the City
which often experiences changes in leadership. Mr. Eger stated that the current
schedule for the payoff of the debt is the year 2023, but he believes that the
District will be able to pay it off several years earlier than that.
Mayor Moriconi stated that by entering into this Agreement with the District
the city will be 99% out of the sewer business; the 1% being that the City will
collect and remit the Fowler Creek Sewer assessment for the District. Mr. Eger
commented that the City’s continuation of the billing will allow the residents
to escrow this assessment each year.
Council Member Cobble asked Mr. Eger to elaborate on how the District would use
the sewer funds the City would relinquish. Mr. Eger stated the District would
upsize the lines to the Lakeview Pump Station, and also extend present lines,
perhaps to the Courthouse Estates subdivision and Peach Drive areas. He stated
that due to the dynamic growth that Independence is experiencing it is hard to
be specific as more pressing needs may come along, so the District would need
to prioritize the projects.
Further discussion centered on maintenance fees collected and the city’s
outstanding balance of the GRW Study obligation. Mr. Eger also advised Council
that one of the conditions of the 1998 Agreement - wherein the District
provides the City a $300 share for each tap-in permit issued - will expire in
2008. Also discussed was future growth and providing sanitary sewer service to
pocket areas throughout the city.
Mr. Deters advised Council the Agreement would still require the approval of
the Sanitation District Board and the Kentucky Division of Water. Council
Member Cook asked if the City would continue to file liens on the properties
being assessed the debt reduction. Mr. Deters replied that the District would
notify the city of the new tie-ins and he would file the liens. Council Member
Cobble expressed some concern about the City absorbing the cost of filing the
liens. Mr. Deters said that the liens could be bunched together when filing to
keep the cost minimal.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read
Resolution No. 2006-R-11. Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No.
2006-R-11, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered
with four ayes and two nays cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion
carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-16 – Approving a Text Amendment Relating to Retirement
Communities – KCPC Application No. 1807R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-16 that
would approve a zoning text amendment relating to the establishment and
regulation of a retirement community zone. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2006-
O-16.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-16, seconded by
Council Member Kelso. A brief discussion ensued wherein Council Member Cobble
voiced her objection to the language in Section D that grants final approval of
the Stage II development plan to the legislative body. She expressed concern
about potential litigation against the city, however, the city attorney made it
clear that it would be more of a potential that the ordinance would be thrown
out as opposed to monetary damages being sought. She went on to say that she
felt the legislative body, by assuming this role, would jeopardize the city,
because it was stated in previous meetings by both Mr. Deters and Mr. Schwartz
of the Planning Commission that it was highly inappropriate for the legislative
body to assume this role as it should be an administrative function of the
Planning Commission staff.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with four ayes
and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-17 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Day
Care Facilities as a Permitted Use in the NC Zone – KCPC Application No. 1818R
– 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-17 approving
a text amendment to the zoning ordinance adding day care facilities to the list
of permitted uses within the NC (neighborhood commercial) zone. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2006-O-17.
Council Member Kelso moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-17 seconded by Council
Member Cobble. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast
by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Executive Session
At 7:35 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session to
discuss pending litigation in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c), seconded by
Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:07 p.m., Council Member Kelso moved to return to reconvene the regular
session, seconded by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried with all ayes.
Update on County Road Maintenance Issue
Mayor Moriconi announced that the Council discussed the judge’s ruling on the
city lawsuit against the county. He stated the city looks forward to a quick
resolution of this issue and has directed the city attorney to contact the
county attorney to discuss the possibility of an out-of-court agreement.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to adjourn the special meeting. Council
Member Cobble so moved, seconded by Council Member Kelso. Motion carried with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:08 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 7, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 7,
2006 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little,
and Donna Yeager. Council Member Kelso was absent. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters
was also present.
Recognition/ July Business of the Month
Mayor Moriconi announced that Council Member Franzen had selected the
Independence Towne Center as the July Business of the Month recipient and
presented a plaque to Nathan Deters.
Approval of the June 19, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the June 19, 2006
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member
Yeager. There being no amendments, roll was called and answered unanimously;
motion carried 5-0.
Approval of the July 24, 2006 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
Council meeting held on July 24, 2006 council meeting. Council Member Franzen
so moved, with second by Council Member Yeager. Amendments were noted by
Council Members Franzen and Cobble. Roll was called and answered with four ayes
and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 4-1.
Privileges of the Floor
Lisa Placke, 112 McCullum Road, Independence – submitted to council photographs
of ––––McCullum Road––. She stated the photos show the damaged roadway which
has been caused by the heavy construction vehicles making improvements to the
re-routed section of SR 17. She stated she knows this is not a city issue, but
would appreciate city support in her effort to get the state to make repairs.
Ms. Placke stated one fatal collision has recently occurred on ––––McCullum
Road–– and believes this is a safety concern. Mayor Moriconi and Council shared
her concern and offered to assist her if she does not get a response from the
state.
Sandy Woolum, 4880 Justice Lane, Independence – addressed Council with her
request to waive a sidewalk lien on her daughter’s property on Justice Lane.
She stated that the city’s building inspector will not issue the Certificate of
Occupancy for her daughter’s new house until the notice of lien is signed. Ms.
Woolum feels her daughter should not have to sign a lien, as she feels there
are legitimate reasons that would permit the city to grant a waiver. She stated
she is aware that waivers have been granted to other property owners. A brief
discussion ensued and ended when Mayor Moriconi advised Ms. Woolum he would
speak to city staff regarding this and get back with her by Friday.
Peggy Justice – ––––36 Fleming Drive–, ––Independence – addressed Council
regarding her objection to the Fowler Creek debt reduction assessment. She
stated that in 1993 they were told the more users that came on line the faster
the debt would be retired.
Jim Bertram, 5290 Madison Pike, Independence, - Mr. Bertram addressed Council
regarding two issues. He stated that his development site on Carol Ann Drive is
being delayed as he needs a decision from either the Kenton County Fiscal Court
or the City regarding the Cody Road situation. He stated that he has two
development plans ready; one that would develop the site based on Cody Road
being closed and the other based on realigning the road and keeping it open to
through traffic. He said he cannot make application to the Planning Commission
until the city and/or county make a decision on whether to realign or close the
road. He stated he has approached the County regarding this issue and their
position is that Cody Road is a city maintained street and therefore the City
must decide. He stated he feels the Carol Ann Drive development is “caught in
limbo” and is looking for some guidance from the City on how best to proceed. A
lengthy discussion ensued. Some Council Members expressed concern on taking any
action with regard to Cody Road as it is one of the streets that are part of
the lawsuit the City has filed against the County regarding maintenance of
county roads that run through incorporated areas of Independence. Council
advised Mr. Bertram did not want to take any action at this time regarding Cody
Road that might jeopardize the lawsuit.
Mr. Bertram stated his other issue that he needed help with was the Stage II
development plan for the Independence Village. He stated that he would like the
City to approach the State Highway Department with a request to install a
temporary traffic light at the intersection of Centennial Drive across from the
Kroger’s access road. He stated he is aware the State has agreed to install a
permanent light after the new section of SR 17 is open for traffic, but the
intersection is already experiencing heavy traffic flow, especially during
school bus hours. He advised that the State is also running about 6-8 months
behind schedule on the construction of SR 17 and it could be Spring 2008 before
the road is completed. He requested the City submit a resolution to the State
supporting a temporary traffic light at this location.
Council Member Cobble moved to have the city attorney draft a Resolution to
request the State to install a temporary traffic light at the intersection of
Centennial Blvd. and Madison Pike, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion
carried with all ayes.
Linda Skelton, 10437 Sharpsburg Drive, Independence – addressed Council
regarding several lots on their street that have been neglected by the
builders. She stated the construction of the houses is not complete and the
lots are overgrown with vegetation and strewn with building debris. Mr. Deters
advised the city must send notice to the owner of record and then if no action
is taken the City can go in and clean up the properties. Ms. Skelton also
advised that their street does not have street lights installed yet and
wondered who was responsible for this. Mayor Moriconi advised the developer was
responsible to install the lights and would have city staff check into this.
Resolution No. 2006-R-12 – Authorize a Road Bond Agreement with Ky
Transportation Department for ––––Production Drive–– Funds
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-12 that would approve the
execution of a Municipal Aid Co-op Program contract between the City and the
Ky. Transportation Cabinet for discretionary Bond funding in the amount of
$200,000 for Production Drive repairs. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2006-R-
12. Council Member Cobble moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-12, seconded by
Council Member Little. No roll was called; motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Fences – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approving a text amendment to the zoning ordinance amending the height and
location of fences within a residential zone. Mr. Deters gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Trash Assessment Rate for 2006 and 2007 – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve the trash assessment rate for 2006 and 2007. The rate would be $111.12
annually. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Police Chief Report – Dave Nichols
Mr. Nichols gave a brief report on the Police Chief’s Convention.
City Attorney Report – ––Jed K. Deters–
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report, but requested an Executive Session.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the Madison Pike Sidewalk Project had begun
construction.
Executive Session
At 8:04 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session to
discuss and possible land acquisition and pending litigation in accordance with
K.R.S. 61.810 (b) and (c), seconded by Council Member Cobble. Motion carried
with all ayes.
At 8:30 p.m., Council Member Cobble moved to reconvene the regular session,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Lawsuit – City of Independence v. Kenton County regarding Road Maintenance
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to Appeal the city’s case against Kenton
County regarding the maintenance of county roads within the incorporated limits
of the city and to create an interlocal agreement based on the content of the
judge’s decision to present to the Kenton County Fiscal Court for
consideration.
Council Member Franzen so moved with second by Council Member Little. No roll
was called; motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, second by Council
Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 8:31
p.m.
                     ____________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
Minutes of August 28, 2006
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, August 28,2006 at 6:30 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409
Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Carol Franzen,
Kent Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member Margaret Cook was
absent. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
1.   Ratify Stage II Development Plan for Independence Village (Walgreen’s)
2.   Cody Road – Discuss road improvements as it relates to the Development
Plan by One Eleven Engineers for ––––Carole Ann Lane––
3.   Ordinance No. 2006-O-18 – Text Amendment Relating to Fences – 2nd Reading
4.   Ordinance No. 2006-O-19 – Establishing a Trash Assessment Rate for 2006 &
2007 – 2nd Reading
5.   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2006 Tax Rates for Real and Tangible
Property – 1st Reading
6.   Resolution No. 2006-R-13 Supporting the early Installation of a Traffic
Light on SR 17 at the Intersection with Declaration Drive
7.   Personnel Appointment
8.   Executive Session (if necessary)
Ratify Stage II Development Plan for Independence Village (Walgreen’s) for an
Approximate 2.1 Acre area located at the Southeast Corner of the Intersection
of Madison Pike with Proposed Centennial Blvd. (NKAPC No. Z-06-06-02/1821R)
Mayor Moriconi directed Council to the correspondence from the NKAPC
recommending approval of the Amended Stage II development plan for the
Independence Village (Walgreen’s site) subject to three conditions. He stated
Mr. Jim Bertram was present to answer any questions. Mr. Bertram asked Council
to waive condition number three which would only permit one forty square foot
sign. Council Member Cobble commented that she did not feel the signage and
landscape conditions recommended by the Planning Commission would be consistent
in this area of development. Therefore, Council Member Cobble moved to approve
the Independence Village Stage II development plan for the Walgreen’s site and
waiving the landscaping and sign conditions (Number 1 and 3). Council Member
Franzen seconded the motion.
A discussion ensued. Mr. Bertram presented a rendering of the Walgreen’s
signage for Council to review. He advised Council that Walgreen’s stores have
signage on two sides of the building, therefore they were requesting 159 square
feet of signage for both the north and west elevations and consisted of four
signs on those elevations of the building. Council also discussed condition
number one, which required a minimum of five percent interior landscaping be
provided. Mr. Bertram stated the adjacent property is no longer zoned
residential and therefore he feels the landscaping condition is not necessary.
Council Member Yeager expressed her concern that the city would open a
Pandora’s Box by permitting the larger signs in a PUD zone. There being no
further discussion, roll was called and answered with four ayes and one no vote
cast by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried 4-1.
Cody Road – Discussion or Road Improvements as it Relates to the Development
Plan by One Eleven Engineers for ––––Carole Ann Lane
Mr. Jim Bertram of One Eleven Engineers addressed Council regarding the road
improvements for Cody Road. He stated he is ready to begin development and is
preparing to submit a development plan and he would like some direction from
the City regarding Cody Road and whether it will be closed or remain open to
through traffic. Council Member Cobble suggested the city hold a public hearing
to get citizen input on whether or not the city should close the road. Mr.
Bertram asked if the city was assuming jurisdiction of Cody Road. Mr. Deters
replied yes. A brief discussion ensued and the consensus of the Council was to
keep Cody Road open. Mr. Bertram stated as part of his development plan for
Carole Ann Lane he will design a new alignment for Cody Road.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-18 – Text Amendment Relating to Fences – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-
18 that would approve a zoning text amendment amending the height and location
of fences within residential zones. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2006-O-18 a
second reading.
A discussion ensued. Council Member Little expressed concern that this
ordinance was a tool to bring properties into compliance that are currently in
violation. He stated he would like the Board of Adjustment members to provide
the Council with a formal recommendation and their reason for the
recommendation. Mayor Moriconi advised that he has spoken with some of the
Board members who stated they did not understand the basis of the current
ordinance which limits the locations of fences on corner lots. Mr. Deters
commented that the Board reaches their decisions based on current ordinances
and they requested the city apply for the text amendment. He said the Board has
had several non-compliance cases come before them and they have been upholding
the ordinance, but see no rationalization in the current ordinance. Council
Member Cobble stated there is concern of obstructed view for vehicles. Further
discussion ended in a Council consensus to request input from the Board members
as to why they don’t grant a variance.
Council Member Franzen moved to table the adoption of Ordinance No. 2006-O-18
until they hear from the Board of Adjustment members on this issue, seconded by
Council Member Little. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-19 – Establishing a Trash Assessment Rate for 2006 & 2007
– 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented Ordinance No. 2006-O-19 for a second reading. This
ordinance would establish the trash assessment rate for 2006 and 2007. Mr.
Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-19, seconded by
Council Member Cobble. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2006 Tax Rates for Real & Tangible Property – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance adopting the
2006 tax rates for real and tangible properties. A brief discussion centered on
the compensating tax rate that had been calculated at .185 for real property
and .662 for tangible property. The consensus of Council was that the rates
seemed high and that the rates should have decreased not increased and that
keeping the 2005 rates would still provide an increase in revenue for the city.
Council Member Little moved to maintain the 2005 tax rate of .177 for real
property for the 2006 tax year, seconded by Council Member Cobble. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0
Council Member Franzen moved to maintain the 2005 tax rate of .578 for tangible
property for the 2006 tax year, seconded by Council Member Yeager. A brief
discussion ensued which resulted in Council Member Little amending his original
motion and Council Member Cobble amending her original second to include
maintaining the 2005 tax rate of .578 for tangible property for the 2006 tax
year. Council Members Franzen and Yeager withdrew their motion and second. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0. Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance.
Resolution No. 2006-R-13 – Supporting the early Installation of a Traffic Light
on SR 17 at Centennial Drive
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-13 supporting the early
installation of a traffic light on SR 17 at Centennial Drive. Council Member
Cobble moved to approve Resolution No. 2006-R-13, seconded by Council Member
Franzen. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2006-R-13. No roll call; motion carried
with all ayes.
Municipal Order 2006-MO-04 – Approving Appointment of Shawn Butler as Chief of
Police
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-04 that would
approve his appointment of Shawn Butler as Chief of Police. Council Member
Franzen moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-04, seconded by Council
Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Cobble moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:25 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 18, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
18, 2006 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Kent
Kelso, Mike Little, and Donna Yeager. City Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also
present.
Approval of the August 7, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the August 7, 2006
council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member
Cobble. There being no amendments, roll was called and answered unanimously;
motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the August 28, 2006 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
Council meeting held on August 28, 2006. Council Member Yeager so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen. Amendments were noted by Council Members
Cobble and Yeager. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote
cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Privileges of the Floor
Tom Spurlock, 580 Skyway Drive, Independence – addressed the Council with a
request to close the portion of Skyway Drive that runs from Sugar Tree Drive to
the Blau property. He stated he built his house in 1959 and put in a gravel
driveway back to their house. He stated he would like the street permanently
closed as he has concerns this could become a thoroughfare for planned
development that adjoins his property. A discussion with Council ensued. Mr.
Deters explained the process to close a public right of way. He stated that Mr.
Spurlock has provided the City with letters from two adjoining property owners
who stated they have no objections to closing the street. In closing, Council
requested that Mr. Spurlock speak to the developer of the Blau property to get
his consent in closing the street. Mr. Deters stated if all the adjoining
property owners consent to closing the street, then the City could do so by
ordinance.
Brett Ross, 720 Independence Station Road, Independence - addressed Council on
behalf of the South Kenton Lions Football League, regarding a letter sent to
them by the City’s Recreation Director, Nita Brake. He stated the letter
concerned trash left in Memorial Park after the football practices. He stated
their organization has used the field for nine years and that they appreciate
the use of the park and do not want to lose this facility. He said they pickup
the park area after each practice, seed the field every year at their expense
and always work hard to keep it well maintained. Mayor Moriconi stated the
letter was sent after receiving numerous complaints from the City’s Public
Services personnel who stated they are spending a lot of time cleaning up the
field after the practices. He assured Mr. Ross the Football League would not be
prohibited from using the field.
Glenna Faulkner, 22 Carrie Way, Independence – addressed Council with a
complaint that a resident that lives on Madison Pike has been parking his
vehicle on ––––Carrie Way–– adjacent to the Swindler & Currin Funeral Home. She
stated the truck is parked in close proximity to the stop sign at the
intersection of ––––Carrie Way–– and Madison Pike and feels this is a safety
issue. Council Member Cook submitted a three page petition (attached to these
minutes) signed by residents of Carrie Way and Cheyenne Court who are
requesting a No Parking sign be erected to prohibit parking from 21 Carrie Way
to the intersection with Madison Pike. After a brief discussion, it was decided
that the city attorney would draft an ordinance that would prohibit parking in
this specific area and that it would be presented at the next meeting.
Interlocal Agreement with NKAPC for Downtown Small Area Study
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Interlocal Agreement with the NKAPC for
the Independence Downtown Small Area Study. He stated Mr. Keith Logsdon would
answer any questions they might have regarding the Agreement. A discussion
ensued with Council Member Cobble sharing her comments regarding the Market
Analysis; she stressed that recently the NKAPC has been remiss in requiring the
developers to comply with the existing zoning ordinance that states a market
analysis must be made to justify the need for commercial uses in a PUD zone
that are intended primarily for the service and convenience of the residents in
the permitted project area. She stated that since the developer of the
Independence Village was not required to conduct a market analysis, the city is
now engaging in a contract to do so. She state that she does not feel it is
right to stick the bill to the taxpayers. . She also expressed concern that
zone changes would be recommended and she did not want to see the City force
zone changes on the residents in the study area. Council Member Little
commented that this study was a larger project than just zoning recommendations
and would include other items of focus. Further discussion included development
possibilities along the new section of SR 17 and the parameters of the study
area. Mr. Logsdon advised they would focus on a five to eight mile area.
Council Member Franzen commented she feels the City cannot continue to ‘piece-
meal’ development and a professional planning firm would make recommendations
the City could use in making good decisions.
Mr. Logsdon stated there would be key components of this study, including
citizen input, which will result with actual implementation strategies the City
can use in the future. Mr. Logsdon went on to introduce the project team
members: Clete Benkin and Sukirti Ghosh with the professional planning firm of
Kinzelman Kline Gossman (KKG), Doug Harnish of GEM and Paul Sloan with URS
Corporation.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion to authorize him to execute the Interlocal
Agreement with the NKAPC to proceed with the study. Council Member Franzen so
moved, seconded by Council Member Kelso. Roll was called and answered with four
ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Council Member
Cobble clarified her vote by stating she objected to the taxpayers footing the
bill for this project.
Contract with KKG Professional Planning Firm for Downtown Small Area Study
Project
Mayor Moriconi advised that the professional planning firm of Kinzelman Kline
Gossman (KKG) has been selected to be the consultant for the Downtown Small
Area Study. Mr. Clete Benkin addressed Council by stating there will continue
to be more development pressure in the future and now is a good time for the
City to forecast ahead and protect the City’s identity. He stated this study
will cast a wide net and will consider surrounding influences outside the scope
of the study area. Mr. Paul Sloan stated he is a Senior Transportation Engineer
with URS Corporation. He stated he has worked extensively in transportation
planning on SR 536 and SR 17 redevelopment plans.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Cobble expressed concern that the
city did not have jurisdiction over the state routes within the city limits,
some of which are in the study area. Council Member Cobble also stated she
objected to spending public funds for this study.
There being no further comments or discussion, Mayor Moriconi entertained a
motion to authorize him to execute the contract with KKG for their consulting
services on the Downtown Small Area Study. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with second by Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered with four
ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Council Member
Cobble clarified her vote by stating she felt this was a waste of taxpayer’s
money.
Proposed Street Name Changes by NKAPC – ––––Bristow Road–– Area
Emalee Listermann of the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission addressed
Council with a request to consider renaming the remnants of roadway created by
the reconstruction of Bristow Road. She stated emergency services are having
difficulty in locating some of the addresses. She stated that NKAPC is
suggesting the following possible solutions to resolve this situation.
1.   Rename the old Bristow section to Battleridge Drive where it aligns with
same. This would also require the renumbering of the residences currently on
the old Bristow section.
2.   Rename the old Bristow section to something else entirely. NKAPC would
coordinate with the city to identify three options for a new street name and
then send a questionnaire to each resident that would be affected advising them
of their choices for a new street name. They would then compile the results and
announce the street name that received the most votes.
There was a brief discussion which resulted in Mr. Logsdon stating he would
discuss the matter further with Scott Hiles at his office and get back to
Council.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-18 – Text Amendment Relating to Height & Location of
Fences in Residential Zones – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented Ordinance No. 2006-O-18 to Council for
reconsideration, after this Ordinance was tabled at the August 28, 2006 special
meeting. Council Member Cobble moved to take Ordinance No. 2006-O-18 off the
table, seconded by Council Member Kelso. Motion carried with all ayes.
Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2006-O-18 a second reading. Council Member Kelso
moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-18 seconded by Council Member Franzen. A
brief discussion ensued. Council Member Little stated he spoke to a couple of
members on the Board of Adjustments regarding the corner fence issue. Mr. Tom
Brinker, a member of the Board of Adjustments, was in attendance and advised
Council that the Board has been enforcing the current ordinance, but could not
understand the reason that it exists. Mayor Moriconi stated the Kenton County
Planning Commission has recommended approval to make this change that would
allow a corner lot to extend the fences in the rear yards. There being no
further discussion, roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no
votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Council Member Cobble clarified
her vote by saying she feels that extending the corner lots fences could be a
traffic safety issue.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-20 – Adopting 2006 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-
20, an ordinance that would adopt the real and personal 2006 property tax
rates. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading. There was no discussion.
Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council
Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1
Resolution No. 2006-R-15 – Approving Lease-Purchase Agreement for Four Police
Cruisers
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2006-R-15 that would
authorize him to enter into a Lease-Purchase Agreement with DaimlerChrysler
Financial Services Americas LLC for the purchase of four (4) police cruisers.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2006-R-15. Council Member Little moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2006-R-15, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called
and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion
carried 5-1.
Award Bid for Purchase of Backhoe for Public Services Department
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that bids were let for the purchase of a backhoe
for the Public Services Department. Mr. Gary Cooper, Public Services Director
stated that the city received two bids. One in the amount of $65,120 from
Brandeis Machinery in Lexington and the other bid was from Southeastern
Equipment Company in Burlington in the amount of $73,450. He stated the
Brandeis bid did not meet all the specifications, so he is asking that Council
award the bid to Southeastern Equipment. A brief discussion ensued wherein
Council Member Cobble questioned the cost savings of purchasing the equipment
versus renting.
Council Member Little moved to award the bid to Southeastern Equipment Company
in the amount of $73,450, seconded by Council Member Kelso. Roll was called and
answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and
Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Resolution No. 2006-R-16 – Approving Lease-Purchase Agreement for Backhoe
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2006-R-16 that would authorize him to
enter into a Lease-Purchase Agreement with Baystone Financial Group for the
purchase of the backhoe. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2006-R-16. Motion was
made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adopt
Resolution No. 2006-R-16. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and two
no votes cast by Council Members Cobble and Cook. Motion carried 4-2.
Award Bid for Street Repairs on Hunters Green Drive & Arrow Court
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the recommendation letter from the City
Engineer to award the bids received for the resurfacing of Hunters Green Drive,
Arrow Court and a portion of Production Drive. He stated that he would like to
re-bid Production Drive and only award the bid for the repairs of Hunters Green
and Arrow Court. He stated that CDS Associates is recommending the bid be
awarded to Queen City Blacktop in the amount of $161,063.
Council Member Cobble moved to award the bid to Queen City Blacktop per the
recommendation of the City Engineer, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – ––Shawn Butler–
Chief Butler stated he has some photographs of the Carrie Way parking issue if
anyone would like to see them. He also announced that the Sixth Annual Golf
Outing will be held at Hickory Sticks Golf Course on Sunday.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-05 – Appointing Todd Shupe to Board of Adjustments
Mayor Moriconi presented Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-05 that would approve his
appointment of Todd Shupe to the Board of Adjustments. Council Member Yeager
moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-05, seconded by Council Member
Kelso. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by
Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Mayor Moriconi announced that Kenton County‘s Fall Cleanup would be held on
October 22, 23 and 24 from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Adjournment
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adjourn the meeting, second by Council
Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting adjourned at 8:47
p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 2, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
2, 2006 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: JoAnne Cobble, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike
Little, and Donna Yeager. Council Member Kent Kelso was absent. City Attorney,
Jed K. Deters was also present.
Approval of the September 18, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the September 18,
2006 council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council
Member Yeager. Amendments by Council Member Cobble were noted; roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi announced that no one signed in to address the Council.
Award Bid for Production Drive Repairs
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received for the
Production Drive Resurfacing Project. Bids were received from six contractors.
Mayor Moriconi stated that Len Riegler Blacktop was the low bid at $95,422.00.
There was a brief discussion, after which a motion was made by Council Member
Cobble and seconded by Council Member Little to accept the recommendation of
the City Engineer to award the bid to the low bidder, Len Riegler Blacktop.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Parking Restrictions on Certain Areas of Carrie Way – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would restrict
parking on Carrie Way, specifically prohibiting parking on both sides within
three-hundred fifty feet from the intersection with Madison Pike. He advised
this ordinance was being proposed after receiving numerous complaints of
vehicles parking too close to the intersection thereby creating a safety issue
for drivers. A brief discussion ensued after which Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a first reading.
Police Chief Report – ––Shawn Butler–
Chief Butler reported the department has received a Highway Safety grant in the
amount of $27,500.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced he has been notified that the city will receive
$130,000 from the state for Phase III of the Renaissance Project for sidewalk
construction on Madison Pike.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Cook stated she has received complaints regarding property
grading done at 5140 Madison Pike in connection with the sidewalk project.
Public Services Director Gary Cooper explained that the city engineer’s
original design of the sidewalk along that section of Madison would not work
and had to be re-designed to accommodate the topography. He said the property
owner was very cooperative and allowed the city to remove trees, re-grade the
yard and move the driveway. Council Member Cobble asked if the project was
over-budget. Mayor Moriconi advised the project was funded by the receipt of an
80/20 grant from the state with the state contributing $150,000. He stated the
original bid came in at $123,000 and even with the change orders the project
will come in below the budgeted amount.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen made a motion to
adjourn the meeting, second by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting adjourned at 7:10 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 20, 2006
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
20, 2006 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Carol Franzen, Kent Kelso, Mike Little and Donna
Yeager. Council Members JoAnne Cobble and Margaret Cook were absent. City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters was also present.
Approval of the October 2, 2006 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the October 2,
2006 council meeting. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council
Member Kelso. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Jeb Holbrook, 4016 Bramblewood Drive, Erlanger, Ky. – introduced himself and
stated he was just elected to serve on the City Council, but has received a
call from the County Clerk’s office and was informed there was an apparent mix-
up with registration at the county building and some paperwork did not get
filed. He stated he would not take any questions but wanted to make a brief
statement. He added that he wanted to thank all that voted for him in
Independence, his adopted home-town, but unfortunately he chooses not to serve.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Holbrook for addressing the Council and stated that
the City appreciates his willingness to want to serve. Mayor Moriconi wished
him luck.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-21 – Parking Restrictions on Certain Areas of Carrie Way –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-
21 that would restrict parking on Carrie Way, specifically prohibiting parking
on both sides within three-hundred fifty feet from the intersection with
Madison Pike. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2006-O-21.
Motion was made by Council Member Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-21,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 4-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to a Request for a Map Amendment for an
Approximate 2-Acre Area Located Along the East Side of New SR 17 Approximately
900 Feet North of Harris Pike from R-1C to NC – KCPC Application No. 1837R –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council proposed ordinances – one to approve and
one to deny – a map amendment for an approximate two-acre area located along
the east side of new SR 17, approximately 900 feet north of Harris Pike that
would change the zone from R-1C to NC. Mayor Moriconi asked Council if they had
any questions. Council Member Franzen expressed concern that the applicant –
One Eleven Engineering – was not present to present their request. She
suggested postponing this matter until they could be present. Mr. Deters
advised that was not an option as the City has to act within ninety days of
receiving the recommendation from the Planning Commission. He went on to say
that the City really has four options: 1) do nothing and it passes by operation
of law within ninety days, 2) to approve the ordinance and it passes by
operation of law within ninety days, 3) to review the transcript of the public
hearing held by the Planning Commission, which was included in this meetings’
packet, and reach different conclusions and deny it, and 4) the City could hold
it’s own public hearing and reach different conclusions and deny it. Mr. Deters
advised Council the ninety day period will expire on December 6, 2006 so the
City will need to take action to either deny or approve the zone change request
before then or it will automatically pass by operation of law. In closing, he
advised Council they would need to decide whether they wanted to approve or
deny this and have a first reading of the appropriate ordinance.
Council Member Little commented that based on reading the transcript of the
public hearing and the NKAPC staff recommendation wherein the staff expressed
concerns with the landscape screening where commercial and residential zones
adjoin, the lighting of off-street parking areas onto adjacent property, the
number of off-street parking spaces and the lack of information regarding
signage, he is inclined to feel there is not sufficient information to approve
this request. Based on this, Council Member Little made a motion to deny the
request for this map amendment and do a reading on the proposed ordinance to
deny this map amendment. Council Member Yeager seconded the motion. Mayor
Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read the proposed ordinance to deny the KCPC
recommendation (1837R) that would approve the map amendment. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance. Roll was called and answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 4-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Modifying the Regular Meeting Schedule of the City Council
– 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2005-O-04 and would modify the regular meeting schedule of
the City Council. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading. Mayor
Moriconi stated this would go back to having one meeting per month - the first
Monday of each month and eliminate the second meeting held on the third Monday
– which he feels will allow for more flexibility as the City does the Downtown
Small Area Study, as there will be about five town hall meetings scheduled for
next year and this will free up Council’s time to attend those. Mayor Moriconi
stated this ordinance will come up for a second reading at the next meeting
Resolution No. 2006-R-17 – Relating to Agreement with Transportation Cabinet to
Receive $130,000 in Funds for Renaissance Construction Phase III Sidewalk
Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2006-R-17 that would approve
a federal reimbursement Agreement in the amount of $130,000 for Phase III of
the Renaissance Sidewalk Construction Project along Madison Pike. Mayor
Moriconi read Resolution No. 2006-R-17.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2006-R-17, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 4-0.
Police Chief Report – ––Shawn Butler–
Chief Butler reported the department and FOP held their annual food drive this
weekend at Kroger’s and Remke’s. It went well and they hope to feed approximate
30-40 needy families in Independence. He asked that if anyone knows of a family
that needs assistance to let him know and they will do the best they can to
help that family through the holidays.
He also reported that they held their first ever Women’s Wellness program this
past week at the Senior Center and recognized Detective Amy Schworer and
volunteers and businesses that donated items. He stated it was a success and
hope they can continue it each year.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated that in light of Mr. Jeb Holbrook’s statement about not
serving on Council which would have been effective January 1, 2007, he said he
hoped to provide Council with some information at the next meeting about the
proper way to deal with this matter.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced he had three appointments that he would like the
Council to approve by the following Municipal Orders which he read in
succession.
Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-06 – Appointing Lisa Placke to the Senior Board of
Directors
Council Member Yeager moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-06 approving
the appointment of Lisa Placke to the Senior Board of Directors, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-07 – Appointing Eric Dupps to the Board of
Adjustments
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-07
approving the appointment of Eric Dupps to the Board of Adjustments, seconded
by Council Member Kelso. Motion carried with all ayes
Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-08 – Appointing Mike Little to the OKI Board of
Directors
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2006-MO-08
approving the appointment of Mike Little to the OKI Board of Directors,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Kelso made a motion to adjourn
the meeting, second by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting adjourned at 7:15 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 27, 2006
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, November 27,2006 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky. City Clerk Patricia Taney announced
that Mayor Christian J. Moriconi would not be present for this meeting and
stated city Ordinance No. 2005-O-04, Section 2.14 on Replacement of Presiding
Officer, directs that the Council Member who received the most votes in the
last election shall serve as Mayor Pro Tem and preside at meetings in the
Mayor’s absence, but may decline the Chair and request the Council to select
another Council Member to preside. Ms. Taney advised Council the Mayor Pro Tem
is Council Member Donna Yeager and that she has declined to Chair the meeting
and desires the Council to select another Member to preside at this meeting.
Motion was made by Council Member Franzen to have Council Member Kelso, as
resident Parliamentarian, to Chair the meeting. Council Member Yeager seconded
the motion. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and one no vote cast by
Council Member Cook. Motion carried and Council Member Kelso took the Chair’s
seat. Prior to beginning the meeting, Chairman Kelso led with the Pledge of
Allegiance. Chairman Kelso called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen,
Kent Kelso, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member JoAnne Cobble was
absent. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Chairman Kelso announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss and take action on the following agenda items:
·   Presentation of the November 20, 2006 council meeting minutes for approval
·   Ordinance No. 2006-O-22 – Setting Dates and Times of Regular City Council
Meetings – Discussion and Possible Action for a second reading of the Ordinance
·   Ordinance No. 2006-O-23 – Map Amendment on an Approximate 2-Acre Site
Located along the east side of the New section of SR 17 approximately 900 feet
north of Harris Pike from R-1C to NC – KCPC Application No. 1837R – Discussion
and Possible Action for a second reading of the Ordinance
·   Discussion and Possible Action to Ratify the Recommendation from NKAPC for
Stage II Development Plan for Bristow Village
·   Discussion and Possible Action Relating to the Interlocal Agreement with
Sanitation District No. 1
Approval of the Minutes of the November 20, 2006 Council Meeting
Council Member Cook questioned why the minutes were being presented at a
Special meeting when in the past were usually presented for approval at the
regular meetings. The City Clerk stated she thought it would be logical to
present the minutes at this meeting since it was nearing the end of the year as
well as terms of office for half of the Council. Council Member Cook made a
motion to table approval of the November 20, 2006 council meeting minutes,
seconded by Council Member Kelso. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Deters advised
that he is not aware of any prohibition against the approval of the minutes
being placed on a Special meeting agenda. No roll was called; motion failed
with two ayes and three nays.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve the minutes of the November 20, 2006
council meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. No roll was called; motion
carried with four ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-22 - Setting Dates and Times of Regular City Council
Meetings – 2nd Reading
Chairman Kelso presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2006-O-22. Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2006-O-22 which modified the regular meeting schedule
of the City Council effectively continuing the first Monday meeting and
eliminating the meeting on the third Monday of each month.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-22, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. A brief discussion ensued wherein Council Member
Franzen asked Mr. Deters if the schedule could be amended at any time to resume
two regular meetings per month if it was deemed necessary by the Council. Mr.
Deters advised that at any time, the Council could amend the Ordinance if they
felt it was necessary. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 4-1.
Ordinance No. 2006-O-23 – Denying a Map Amendment for 2-Acre Site Located Along
the East side of the New SR 17 approximately 900 Feet north of Harris Pike from
R-1C to NC – KCPC Application No. 1837R – 2nd Reading
Chairman Kelso presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
deny the recommendation of the KCPC (Application No. 1837R) to approve a zoning
map amendment for an approximate two-acre site located along the east side of
the new SR 17 approximately 900 feet north of Harris Pike. Mr. Deters gave
Ordinance No. 2006-O-23 a second reading.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2006-O-23, seconded by
Council Member Little. Chairman Kelso opened the floor for discussion. Mr.
Bertram of One-Eleven Engineering and Surveying addressed concerns Council
Member Yeager had with the five exceptions to the plan’s minimum requirements
that are noted in the recommendation from the Planning Commission. Mr. Bertram
went through each exception noted in section three of the recommendation and
agreed to the following:
a.   Landscape screening – He stated they will comply and provide screening
along the property line which abuts any R-1 zoning – he stated he is aware of
the requirement and will adhere to it.
b.   Parking Spaces – He stated they know they are a little lacking in having
the adequate number of parking spaces, so they will probably reduce the size of
the building to meet that zoning requirement and will supply the number of
spaces needed for the commercial use.
c.   Lighting of Off Street Parking Lots –Mr. Bertram advised they will keep
the lighting of the off street parking areas on their property, as there are
ways to do that, and stated this is usually handled at the Stage II Plan and
assured Council they will comply to the city zoning regarding lighting
regulations.
d.   Off Street parking – will adhere to that
e.   Sign Regulations – will adhere to the NC signs. Mr. Bertram stated that it
is hard to determine in the Stage I plan what will be on that sign, so this is
usually handled in Stage II. He stated they are aware of that and assured
council the signs will adhere to the city’s sign regulations.
He advised the original development plan submitted was a concept and as the
development progresses into Stage II that is when all the details are outlined.
He stated they would not circumvent the city’s zoning ordinance and that it is
typical for the details to be inserted as the Stage II development plan
evolves. He stated they will also provide an ingress/egress easement to the
adjoining property in order to limit the number of curb cuts onto SR17. (Mr.
Bertram presented a map to the Council to review.) He stated a 4-way
intersection would be constructed in this area. He also advised Council that
this particular two-acre parcel is sold.
Chairman Kelso stated that some of Council’s concerns at the last meeting were
how this development would affect the Downtown Small Area Study which the City
is currently conducting. Mr. Bertram stated that the application for this
development plan was submitted prior to the City initiating the Small Area
Study and he feels this plan should be grandfathered in and should not be an
issue.
Council Member Franzen asked if the ordinance is voted down and the KCPC
recommendation stood firm would this development still be required to meet the
City’s zoning ordinance requirements. Chairman Kelso said that was correct.
Council Member Franzen commented that she isn’t too concerned about the effect
this development will have on the Downtown Small Area Study as this is a just a
continuation of the plan the City approved two years ago. Chairman Kelso
advised the City has to act on this recommendation no later than December 6 or
the KCPC recommendation will go into effect.
There being no further discussion, Chairman Kelso advised Council that a vote
in favor of this ordinance would effectively kill the zone change and a vote
against this ordinance could result in going with the recommendation to the
KCPC, roll was called and answered with four nays and one yes vote cast by
Council Member Little. The motion was defeated 4-1 and the ordinance was not
adopted.
Bristow Village Stage II Development Plan – Discussion and Action to Ratify
Recommendation from NKAPC (Z-06-10-04/1852R)
Chairman Kelso presented to Council the Stage II Development Plan review for an
approximate 63 acre area located along the north side of Mount Zion Road,
approximately 800 feet west of Bristow Road.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to ratify NKAPC’s recommendation, seconded
by Council Member Little. Mr. Deters explained that the recommendation was to
disapprove the submitted development plan. Chairman Kelso asked Council Member
Franzen if she was aware that the recommendation was to disapprove. She stated
she overlooked that and asked why it has been recommended for disapproval.
Council asked Mr. Bertram to explain. He distributed site plan maps, both the
original and the proposed Stage II, for Council to review. Mr. Bertram advised
Council that the Planning Commission recommended disapproval based on the fact
that the interconnection to the adjoining subdivision and a pocket park was
eliminated from the original plan approved by the Planning Commission. He
stated this was an agreement with the adjoining property owners and the City
Council. He stated that when the Planning Commission made their recommendation
they were not aware that the city had approved the revisions from the original
development plan approved by the Planning Commission. He stated that the
signage and fencing plans are preliminary, but will be what the City requested
and approved during the original plan review. Mr. Bertram stated that if the
City agrees with the Planning Commission’s recommendation to disapprove, then
they will have to resubmit and this will delay the project which is currently
under construction.
Council Members Franzen and Little withdrew their motion and second. Council
Member Franzen moved to approve the Stage II Plan as presented and based on the
conditions that the street stub be removed, brick wrap be included, fences and
signage be provided as well as all other conditions as stated on the original
development plan as agreed upon by the City. Roll was not called; but the
motion passed by a vote of four ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member
Cook.
Interlocal Agreement with Sanitation District No. 1
Chairman Kelso presented to Council for consideration the amended Interlocal
Agreement with the Sanitation District for the transfer of the City’s sanitary
sewer system along with related funds and debt obligations under the bond
indenture issued by the City. Mr. Deters advised that this Agreement was
originally sent to the Sanitation District some months ago and after reviewing
it have added another condition to the closing of the transaction; that
condition being, that “Filing of a final and unappealled judgment in the case
of William Cobble, et al vs the City, et al, Kenton Circuit Court, Case No. 06-
CI-01975, dismissing the claims of Plaintiffs, and under such other terms as
are satisfactory to District.”
Council Member Yeager made a motion to ratify the amendment to the Agreement,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. There was a brief discussion. No roll
called; motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:43 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2007 Minutes
January 3, 2007
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Wednesday, January 3, 2007 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then called the
meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters. Mayor Moriconi announced
that a quorum was present for this special meeting regarding the six items
posted on the Agenda. He welcomed everyone to the first meeting of 2007.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Accept the resignation of Council Member-Elect Jeb Holbrook with discussion
and possible action to appoint a new Council Member to fill the Vacancy
·   Request by Bill Roberts to support a zoning text amendment to add a used
car lot as a conditional use in the Neighborhood Commercial Zone
·   Resolution No. 2007-R-01 Disapproving the Proposed location of the New
Kenton County Jail
·   Discussion and Possible Action relating to the “Intent to Annex” the future
site of the new Kenton County Jail
·   Meadow Glen Subdivision Stage II Development Plan – Ratify Recommendation
from NKAPC
·   Independence Village Stage II Development Plan – Ratify Recommendation from
NKAPC for the 1.0 Acre site for the new National City Bank
Mayor Moriconi stated that he would modify the order of the Agenda items to
begin with Resolution No. 2007-R-01 and then the discussion relating to the
possible annexation of the future site of the Kenton County jail. No objections
were voiced from the Council Members.
Resolution No. 2007-R-01 – Disapproving the Proposed Location of the new Kenton
County Jail
Mayor Moriconi read Resolution No. 2007-R-01 which disapproves the actions of
the Kenton County Fiscal Court relating to the site chosen for the construction
of a new jail to be located on the new section of SR 17 which is adjacent to
the incorporated areas of the City. Motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Behler to approve Resolution No. 2007-R-01. Roll
was called and answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0. The audience applauded
this action taken by the Council. Mayor Moriconi stated that a copy of this
Resolution would be forwarded to the Fiscal Court.
Discussion & Possible Action Relating to the Intent to Annex the Proposed
Location for the new Kenton County Jail
Mayor Moriconi advised that if the Jail would be constructed on the proposed
site, then the City could take a pro-active position by proceeding with
annexation of the property so that the City could reap some financial benefits
of collecting payroll taxes. He advised the revenue could be used to hire new
police officers. He anticipated that Council might want to direct the City
Attorney to draft an “Intent to Annex” ordinance to start this process. Since
an ordinance requires two readings, the first reading could be done in February
and the second reading in March. Council Member Yeager concurred and stated she
feels the land should be annexed even if the Jail is not constructed on the
site.
A discussion ensued regarding the annexation of the jail site and surrounding
areas. Mr. Deters suggested the City just deal with the jail site for now as
there are no homeowners involved that would file a remonstrance that would
cause the annexation to be put on the general election ballot. He suggested if
the city wanted to annex other areas along the new SR 17 that they do it as a
separate annexation. Mr. Deters went on to explain the process of annexation
and if more than 50 percent of the property owners challenge (protest) the
annexation then it would be put on the ballot.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion for the
Council to direct the City Attorney to draft an ordinance of the City’s intent
to annex this tract of land. Council Member Yeager so moved, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Council Member Franzen and Council Member Behler
expressed concern that Covington would also attempt to annex the proposed jail
site. Mr. Deters stated that Covington was not contiguous with the jail site so
they would have to annex other parcels to reach the jail site. Roll was called
and answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
At this time Mayor Moriconi opened the floor to any citizens who wished to make
comments regarding the jail site.
Catherine Wilson, 10316 Savannah Court, Independence – expressed concern
regarding the expenses the City would incur by annexing the proposed jail site
versus the amount of revenue that would be generated with the collection of
payroll taxes from the jail. She wondered if it would be worth it.
Mayor Moriconi advised the revenue would be based on the number of jail
employees, but he has heard that payroll taxes could be between $30,000 -
$50,000 per year and if the jail expands this amount could go as high as
$80,000 per year. He said the Fiscal Court would be exempt from paying property
taxes. Mr. Deters advised that the city expenses associated with the annexation
would be approximately $2,000 for surveying the property, advertising, etc.
Council Member Franzen commented that Kenton County Jailer, Terry Carl, has
reported that his payroll budget is currently over $2,000,000.
Jason Riley, 4947 Open Meadow Drive (Harvest Hill Subdivision) – asked the
difference between a jail and a prison. Assistant Police Chief Dave Nichols
explained that both terms are interchangeable and have the same meaning.
Jean Schultz 6213 White Bark, Independence – asked if the annexation was a last
resort. She expressed concern that the City may not pursue trying to stop the
jail being constructed on the proposed site as she feels strongly that the jail
will have a negative impact on the community. Mayor Moriconi assured her that
the annexation is a preemptive and proactive move by the City and will be used
as a last resort. He stated the Fiscal Court has been receptive to listening to
everyone’s concerns and the City is not yet waiving a white flag. He added that
the City will continue to do everything possible, as he does not want to see a
jail/detention center the first thing you notice at the gateway to the City
along the new section of SR 17.
In closing, Mayor Moriconi advised that city officials have been receiving many
email messages from citizens that want to help. He thanked everyone and asked
that suggestions for other more suitable, viable sites for the jail be emailed
to him via the City website. He stated he feels it would be more effective if
he sends a list of the alternative sites to the Fiscal Court rather than the
Fiscal Court being inundated with numerous emails regarding this matter. He
stated he thinks the City is united on this issue and appreciates all the work
and support of the citizens.
Accept the Resignation of Council Member-Elect Jeb Holbrook with Discussion &
Possible Action to Appoint a New Council Member
Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to accept the resignation of Council
Member-Elect Jeb Holbrook. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. Mr. Deters advised this would not be effective until the
meeting following this meeting. Roll was called and answered unanimously;
motion carried 5-0.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters to explain the procedure for the City to fill
this vacancy on the Council. Mr. Deters explained there would not be a vacancy
until the next meeting as the state statute mandates that once the resignation
is tendered to the legislative body then it is effective at the next regular
meeting following that. He stated he feels the Council can go ahead and accept
the resignation and then proceed with filling the vacancy with an effective
date of the next meeting, as there is no statutory procedure mandating the
process by which the Council has to accomplish filling the vacated seat.
Council Member Little moved to nominate Tom Brinker as he was the next person
receiving the most ballots on the November 2006 general election and to make
this appointment effective at the next regular meeting of the Council. Council
Member Franzen seconded the motion. There was a brief discussion. Mr. Bushong
stated that the last time this situation occurred the Council did this in
Executive Session under the vote principle. Mr. Deters stated the last time
this occurred, it was not so close following a general election and the Council
decided to take applications and do a review and interview process. He stated
that Council Member Little is suggesting that since this vacancy has occurred
so close to the election that Council should just follow the will of the people
by selecting the person with the next highest votes. He advised that Council
does not have to take applications and go through the interview process.
Council Member Little stated that he feels the Council has a lot of business to
conduct and does not feel the need to prolong filling this vacancy. Council
Member Franzen asked Mr. Brinker, who was in the audience, if he was still
interested in taking the seat on Council. Mr. Brinker stated he was.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously;
motion carried 5-0. Mr. Deters advised this appointment should be made official
with an Order, which can be presented at the next meeting. He also advised that
Mr. Brinker can take the Oath of Office at the next meeting as well.
Request to Sponsor a Zoning Text Amendment Application to add Used Car Lots as
a Conditional Use in the NC (Neighborhood Commercial) Zones – Bill Roberts
Mayor Moriconi stated the City is being asked to sponsor an application for a
zoning text amendment that would permit used car lots in the NC (neighborhood
commercial) zones. He advised Council that currently our NC zone does not allow
car lots and reminded them to keep in mind that any text amendment would apply
city-wide for that zone. He stated that the council packets contained
information about Mr. Robert’s proposal for a used car lot he plans for
property located at 5061 Madison Pike, formerly known as “Fedders Feed and
Seed.” He opened the floor for Council discussion and questions of Gary and
Bill Roberts who are making this request. Council asked several questions and a
brief discussion ensued. Council Member Little expressed concern that the
property was not owned by the Roberts’. Council Member Behler reminded the
Council that the City adopted a Vision for the City in 2005 and that part of
the Vision was the City having an identity and establishing that identity was
to have nice signage at the various entries to the City and she questioned this
particular location as a good place for a used car lot. She stated that does
not deny the Roberts’ good intentions; she just does not feel the location they
have selected is the best place in the city for a used car lot.
A brief discussion ensued with Mr. Deters regarding the procedures of
sponsoring a zoning text amendment. Mr. Deters advised they could sponsor the
application and then the Planning Commission would make a recommendation to the
City which then the Council would approve or disapprove.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to sponsor a zoning text amendment
application to permit used car lots as a conditional use in the NC zones. There
being no second to her motion, the motion died for lack of a second.
Meadow Glen Subdivision Stage II Development Plan – Discussion and Possible
Action to Ratify the Recommendation from the NKAPC (Z-06-11-02/1854R)
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the recommendation from the NKAPC to
approve the Stage II development plan in the Meadow Glen Subdivision. Council
Member Little stated he was concerned with the language in Condition number two
(2) under the Recommendation to approve section on page four (4). He stated he
feels that allowing a Homeowner’s Association to be “established prior to, or
simultaneous with a subsequent final plat” is too much of a gray area. He
suggested deleting the words “or simultaneous with.” He stated this type of
gray area has presented problems in the past. Mr. Deters advised it is within
the City’s purview to change that language and approve this with the language
modification. Mayor Moriconi stated that this amendment to the development plan
is for the addition of a swimming pool and clubhouse, which was always the
intent of the developer, but somehow was erroneously omitted from the original
plat.
There being no further discussion Council Member Little moved to ratify the
recommendation from NKAPC to approve the Stage II Development Plan with the
deletion of the words “or simultaneous with” from Condition Number two (2).
Council Member Behler seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
Independence Village Stage II Development Plan – Discussion and Possible Action
to Ratify the Recommendation from the NKAPC for the National City Bank site (Z-
06-11-05/1857R
Mayor Moriconi stated he was pulling this agenda item at the request of the
developer, National City Bank. The information was just received yesterday and
this will give the Council time to review. He stated representatives from
National City Bank will be at the next regular meeting to address this
development.
Executive Session
At 7:40 p.m. Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to move into an executive
session. Mr. Deters stated the executive session would be pursuant to KRS
61.810 1(c) to discuss pending litigation, specifically the road case with
Kenton County and to entertain a settlement proposal. Council Member Bushong so
moved, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Mayor Moriconi announced that no action was taken in executive session.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:11 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 5, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
5, 2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance
and then Council Member Bushong gave the invocation.
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-01
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a Municipal Order that would prospectively
appoint Tom Brinker to the City Council to fill the vacancy of the unexpired
term of Jeb Holbrook. Mr. Deters read Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-01. Council
Member Yeager moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-01, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Official Swearing In of Council Member Tom Brinker
City Attorney, Jed Deters performed the Swearing-In of Tom Brinker to the City
Council. Mr. Brinker took his seat at the Council bench.
Roll Call of Members
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters. Mayor Moriconi announced
that a quorum was present for this meeting and welcomed everyone.
Approval of the November 27, 2006 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on November 27, 2006. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
by Council Member Little. There being no amendments noted; roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstain cast by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried 6-0.
Approval of the January 3, 2007 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on January 3, 2007. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Bushong. There being no amendments noted, roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstain cast by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried 6-0.
Discussion with Kenton County Commissioners Regarding the Proposed Site for a
new Kenton County Jail
Mayor Moriconi welcomed Kenton County Commissioners Chris Knochelmann and Sara
Voelker and thanked them for attending the City meeting to share a dialogue
with the Council regarding the County’s plans to construct a new jail on the
new section of SR17 adjacent to the incorporated boundaries of the City. He
stated that a Committee of citizens have met and come up with a list of ten
questions they would like to pose to the Commissioners in an effort to learn of
the ’’’’Fiscal Court’’’s reasons for choosing the proposed site. Mayor Moriconi
thanked the citizens for all the time and input they have given in working on
this issue and submitting alternative sites for the Fiscal Court to consider.
For the next, approximate hour, Mayor Moriconi posed each question to
Commissioners Knochelmann and Voelker. The Commissioners were unable to give
definite answers to many of the questions since they just took office on
January 1, 2007. Mayor Moriconi announced that he spoke to Commissioner Dan
Humpert who wanted to attend this meeting, but was unable to due to a prior
commitment.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 2006/07 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration a proposed
ordinance to amend the 2006/07 budget. In a memo attached to the amended budget
Mayor Moriconi outlined several key changes necessitating the amendment, those
being: $142,000 in police grants revenue, additional funds received from the
State to make repairs on Production Drive, $130,000 in revenue for sidewalk
grants, $86,500 expense for Downtown Small Area Study and $50,000 additional
street repairs to be done in the Spring, and department expenses for health
insurance were combined into one line item as a result of the city’s conversion
to a self-funded policy last September. He also pointed out that the City
currently has a healthy fund balance in excess of $1,939,000. There being no
discussion by Council, Mayor Moriconi directed the city attorney to give the
ordinance a first reading. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance to amend the
2006/07 budget.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex Approximately 25 Acre Parcel along the New
SR17 (Proposed Kenton ––County– ––Jail– Site) – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration a proposed
ordinance of the City’s intent to annex approximately 22 acres along the
easterly side of the relocated SR17, south of Pelly Road, which is the property
owned by the Kenton County Fiscal Court and which has been designated as the
proposed site of the new Kenton County Jail. Mr. Deters gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading. Mayor Moriconi stated this ordinance is a pro-active
move that would ensure the city would reap the benefits of having a Jail in the
city if efforts to find another location fail. Council Member Franzen added
that regardless of the type of facility or future development on this site the
city would want to be in a position to collect business taxes. Council Member
Little suggested the City look at other areas along the new section of SR17 as
well and move forward with annexation of those areas. Council Member Behler
concurred and moved to direct the city attorney to look into the other sites
along SR17 and begin annexation proceedings. Council Member Bushong seconded
her motion. A brief discussion ensued regarding the best way to proceed. Mr.
Deters stated he would look into the annexation laws; he will also need legal
descriptions and certified surveys for each parcel. Roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-02 – Authorizing a Text Amendment Application to Amend
Section 9.23 of the Zoning Ordinance Relating to RV’s
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council and read Resolution No. 2007-R-02 that
would support an application for a zoning text amendment to the official Zoning
Ordinance. He stated this application would seek a recommendation from the
Planning Commission on updating the requirements for recreational vehicle
parking, specifically establishing criteria that must be met before the Zoning
Administration can permit parking of an RV on private property.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-02, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried
6-0.
Police Chief Report – ––Shawn Butler–
Chief Butler advised that snow is in the weather forecast and reminded everyone
to get their vehicles off the street so the snow plows can maneuver without
delays or problems.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters requested the Council hold an executive session at the end of the
meeting.
Mayor’s Report - Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported that the annual Audit for the fiscal year ending June
30, 2006 is in their packets for review. He advised if they had any concerns or
questions regarding the Audit that they should direct their questions to the
city’s Finance Director, Teresa Hudson. Council
Members Yeager and Little stated they had some questions that Mrs. Hudson has
already answered and they were satisfied.
Mayor Moriconi announced he had some appointments that he would like the
Council to approve by the following Municipal Orders which he read in
succession.
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-02 – Appointing ––Tim Aubrey– to the Code
Enforcement/Board of Ethics
Council Member Yeager moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-02 approving
the appointment of Tim Aubrey to the Code Enforcement/Board of Ethics, seconded
by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes.
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-03 – Appointing ––Kent Kelso– to the Board of
Adjustments
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-03
approving the appointment of Kent Kelso to the Board of Adjustments, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and
Council Member Bushong passing. Motion carried 5-1.
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-04 – Appointing Tom Nicodemus to the Senior Board
of Directors
Council Member Little moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-04 approving
the appointment of Tom Nicodemus to the Senior Board of Directors, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-05 – Appointing Re-Appointment of Geneva Gibson to
the Senior Board of Directors
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-05
approving the re-appointment of Geneva Gibson to the Senior Board of Directors,
seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
Downtown Small Area Study Workshops to be Held the end of February 2007
Mayor Moriconi announced that, as part of the Downtown Small Area Study,
citizen/stakeholder questionnaires would be available on the city’s website. He
encouraged everyone to complete a survey and return it. He also announced that
workshops would be held on Thursday, February 22, 2007 from 7-9 pm and on
Saturday, February 24, 2007 with a design presentation of the preliminary
results on Monday evening, February 26, 2007 at 7 pm in the Council Chambers.
He stated these workshops would be open to the public and he encouraged citizen
input, by coming to the workshops and/or completing the questionnaire.
Industrial Road Project
Council Member Bushong asked for a status report on the road improvements
project for Industrial Road. Mayor Moriconi advised the project has been
delayed and will now be constructed in two phases.
Executive Session
At 8:18 p.m. Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to move into an executive
session. Mr. Deters stated the executive session would be pursuant to KRS
61.810 1(c) to discuss pending litigation, specifically with the Sanitation
District. Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Little.
Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:44 p.m., Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Mayor Moriconi announced that no action was taken in executive session.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:44 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 5, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 5,
2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then
called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters
Approval of the February 5, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on February 5, 2007. Council Member Little so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. Amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
with all ayes; motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-01 – Amending the 2006/07 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
01 which would amend the 2006/07 budget. Mr. Deters gave the Ordinance a second
reading. Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-01, seconded
by Council Member Behler. Council Member Franzen asked about the significant
increase in the repairs line item for the Parks budget. Mayor Moriconi advised
this was revenue from an insurance claim the city filed due to vandalism damage
to playground equipment in the Glenhurst Park. There being no further
discussion by Council, roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Request by David Hill for City to Vacate a Paper Street at the End of Jimae
Court
Mr. David P. Hill, 10682 Kelsey Drive, Independence, Kentucky stated he is
interested in purchasing a vacant parcel at 6393 Jimae Court to build a house.
He stated a ‘paper street’ that was originally intended to connect to Regal
Ridge Drive runs along the property. Mr. Steve Powell, representing the owner –
Harold Clayton – suggested the City divide the ‘paper street’ area evenly
between 6395 and 6393 Jimae Court, thereby closing off this street that was
platted but never formed or used as a street. Mr. Powell stated that currently
the area is littered with debris which cost the City money to clean up each
year. A lengthy discussion ensued regarding this request and how it will affect
the residents of the Regal Ridge Apartments that use this ‘paper street’ as a
shortcut when going to the Cherokee Shopping Center. Mr. Powell stated that
while this area was intended to be a right-of-way, it was never meant to become
a pathway for foot traffic to and from the apartment complex. Council Member
Yeager stated that some of the residents on Jimae Court fear their backyards
may become a new pathway if the City closes off the ‘paper street.’ Further
discussion centered on trying to improve the situation to eliminate the through
traffic and the littering of the ‘paper street’ area and possibly enlisting the
owners of the Regal Ridge apartments to help resolve the problem.
Council Member Brinker moved to table this issue until the City has the
opportunity to speak with the management of the Regal Ridge apartment complex,
as well as notifying all property owners on Jimae Court to make them aware of
this request, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Robert Reusch, Independence Cleaners, 1904 Declaration Drive addressed Council
to request a 5-minute drop-off/pick-up parking area in the fire zone for his
customers. Council advised him to speak to the owners of the Independence Towne
Center and/or the Independence Fire District.
Resolution No. 2007-R-03 – Approving Amendment to MRA Bond Fund Agreement CC04
to Include ––––Kimberly Drive–– and ––––Elizabeth Drive
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-03 that would amend
the original agreement with the Transportation Cabinet to add Kimberly Drive
and Elizabeth Drive to the list of streets to be funded by Agreement CC04. Mr.
Deters read Resolution No. 2007-R-03. Council Member Franzen moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2007-R-03, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Council Member
Franzen asked if the funds would be increased/decreased. Mayor Moriconi advised
the fund amount would stay the same. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-04 – Declaring Old Pump Station parcel on ––––Fowler
Creek Road–– as Surplus Property
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-04 that declares the
land known as 0.0574 acres on the east side of Fowler Creek Road (PIDN 046-00-
00-072.01), which was previously used by the City as a sanitary sewer pumping
station, to be surplus property and authorizes the City administration to
accept sealed bids for the sale of the property to the highest and best bidder.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2007-R-04.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-04, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Audience member, Mr. Don Nienaber, suggested the
proceeds from the sale of the property be applied to the Fowler Creek debt
retirement fund. Council was in agreement and Council Members Franzen and
Bushong amended their motion to include the provision that the proceeds from
the sale would go toward paying off the Fowler Creek debt. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Authorizing & Approving Mayor to Enter into an Agreement with Special Counsel
to Represent the City in a Proposed Commercial Development by Neyer Properties
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed Agreement for special legal
counsel from Taft, Stettinius and Hollister LLP. He stated the City has been
approached by Neyer Development Company who is planning a large commercial
development for property in the area of the new SR 17 and McCullum Road. He
advised that this law firm has assisted other cities with negotiations
regarding large shopping center developments and feels their expertise in this
area would be very valuable to the city.
Council Member Bushong moved to authorize Mayor Moriconi to enter into an
Agreement with Taft, Stettinius and Hollister for special counsel services
regarding the Neyer Properties development, seconded by Council Member Little.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Chief Report – Dave Nichols, Assistant Chief
Mr. Nichols stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters reported that he has prepared legal descriptions for the other areas
along the new section of SR 17 that Council expressed interest in annexing. He
stated along with the larger section, there were two other smaller areas that
needed to be annexed, one of which was the back end of the Post Office parcel
which is completely surrounded by the City. Mayor Moriconi advised that meant
there would be three separate annexation ordinances. Mr. Deters went on to
explain the annexation process the City would undertake if they decided to
proceed. Mayor Moriconi advised that being annexed into the City could be seen
as an advantage for the unincorporated property owners that will soon be paying
an insurance premium tax that the Kenton County Fiscal Court just enacted. Mr.
Deters stated that if Council wants to proceed with the annexations then he
will prepare the three ordinances needed.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported that a status report on the Downtown Small Area Study
was available on the city’s website. He also announced that the Independence
Day Celebration would be held this year on June 29th and 30th. He stated the
Grand Marshall of the parade on Saturday, June 30th would be Army Sgt. Tommy
Rieman a Simon Kenton High School graduate who was acknowledged by President
George Bush in his State of the Union Address. Sgt. Rieman was awarded the
Silver Star for his exceptional courage during his reconnaissance mission in
Iraq.
Report on Kenton County Jail Site
Council Member Franzen reported that the Collaborative Citizen Committee who
has been researching alternative sites for the new Kenton County jail has
submitted a list of sites to the Kenton County Fiscal Court and she stated
things look cautiously optimistic that one of the proposed sites will be a
better choice.
Executive Session
At 8:00 p.m. Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to move into an executive
session. Mr. Deters stated the executive session would be pursuant to KRS
61.810 1(b) to deliberate acquisition of real property. Council Member Franzen
so moved, seconded by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2007-R-05 Directing the Condemnation of 157 Sq.Ft. of Land on
the Corner of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road for Necessary Public Improvements
to the Intersection
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2007-R-05 which would authorize and
direct the condemnation, by eminent domain, of 157 square feet of land on the
corner of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road for public improvements to the
intersection. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2007-R-05. Council Member Franzen
moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-05, seconded by Council Member Behler.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:16 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 2, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 2,
2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then
called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Michael Little
and Donna Yeager. Council Member Tom Brinker was absent. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters
Approval of the March 5, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on March 5, 2007. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered with all ayes; motion
carried 5-0.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Council Member Franzen who asked to make a
statement. Council Member Franzen stated that at the March 5, 2007 meeting of
the Council during the second reading of Ordinance 2007-O-01 that would amend
the 2006/07 budget, former Council Member Margaret Cook asserted that a first
reading had not been done. Council Member Franzen wanted the record to show
that the City Clerk and some members of the Council reviewed the meeting video
and saw that in fact a first reading of the ordinance had taken place at the
February 5, 2007 meeting, indicating that Mrs. Cook made an erroneous
statement.
Privileges of the Floor
Sheila Adams, 36 Walnut Hall Drive, Independence, Ky. – addressed Council with
a request to support a zoning text amendment that would permit fences in front
yards. She stated she has to let the dogs out in the front yard as she has no
rear door to let them out back. She stated she is not able to get an invisible
fence as one of her dogs has a trachea problem and cannot wear a collar. A
general discussion ensued with the Council wherein they discussed possible
solutions. Mr. Deters advised the Board of Adjustments would not be able to
issue a variance to allow a fence as it would be in violation of the zoning
ordinance. He also advised that even if the City applied for a zoning text
application that they would not get a position recommendation from the Planning
Commission as fences in front yards pose site distance issues, etc. which is
one reason they are generally not allowed in most communities. Mr. Deters
directed Ms. Adams to seek further information as to why front yard fences are
prohibited from the Northern Kentucky Planning Commission.
Doris Wicklund, 1906 Independence Road, Independence, Kentucky – addressed
Council with a request for the City to support an application for a zoning text
amendment that would permit a Bed & Breakfast as a permitted use in the R-1C
zone. She stated she has two bedrooms on the second floor of her house at 1906
Independence Road that she would like to rent out. She stated she also has a
wildflower walking trail on her property that will be open to the public free
of charge. There was a brief exchange between some of the Council and Ms.
Wicklund.
Council Member Yeager moved to support an application for a zoning text
amendment that would permit a Bed and Breakfast in the R-1C zone, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0. Mayor Moriconi directed City Attorney, Jed Deters to draft a
Resolution authorizing this application for presentation to the Council at the
May 7, 2007 meeting.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-02 – Intent to Annex 22.5 Acres along Eastside of New SR17
– 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-02 that
declares the city’s intent to annex a 22.53 acres parcel which is the proposed
Kenton County Jail site on the new section of SR17. Mr. Deters read Ordinance
No. 2007-O-02.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-02, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
Discussion to Vacate a Paper Street at the end of Jimae Court
Mayor Moriconi advised Council of the letter from Mr. David Hill that was
included in their Council packet. He stated Mr. Hill was not able to attend
tonight’s meeting, but wanted Council to know that he will need twenty-five
feet of the paper street in order to build a house on the adjoining property –
6393 Jimae Court.
Council Member Behler submitted a petition with eighteen signatures of
residents that are in favor of the city vacating (closing) the paper street.
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion. Ms. Gail Wallace, 6396 Jimae
Court, stated she has lived on the street for twenty-three years and has
endured years of vandalism in their neighborhood. She stated the paper street
has become a shortcut for the residents living in the Regal Ridge Apartments
who walk to the Cherokee Shopping Center. She stated the pathway is always full
of litter. She stated she would love to see a house built there.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Deters what the City’s options are. Mr. Deters stated
the paper street can be closed by consent or by a court action. He stated to
close it by consent would require all three adjoining owners to agree. A
discussion ensued. Susan Curran, ’’’’6401 Jimae Court, expressed her concerns
that if the City closes the ‘paper street’ then the Regal Ridge residents will
cut through their property. Council discussed closing a portion of the ‘paper
street’ and building a walkway on the remaining area. Mr. Deters stated he
feels this is impractical for the City to do this and will open the city to
liability if it is maintained as a public walkway. He advised that it is a
matter of either closing it or keeping it open. Council Member Franzen stated
she does not feel that closing the ‘paper street’ will stop people from
trespassing. Council Member Bushong commented that he thought HUD housing have
rules they have to abide by in order to keep their certification and wondered
if a high amount of crime was an issue that should be discussed with the owner
of the apartment complex. Mayor Moriconi stated they could set up a meeting
with the owners to discuss, but that Council needed to take some action tonight
with regard to Mr. Hill’s request.
Council Member Behler made a motion to vacate a minimum of twenty-five (25)
feet (east side) of the Jimae Court paper street and authorize any court action
to achieve that. Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0. Council Member Yeager commented
that she wants to see the City address the problems voiced by the residents of
Jimae Court.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex ––––4545 Oliver Road–– – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would approve an intent to annex 4545 Oliver Road (PIDN 046-00-00-096.00).
Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading. He explained that this parcel is
an island surrounded by city boundaries.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex 5106 ––Madison– Pike – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would approve an intent to annex the remaining section of 5106 Madison
Pike (PIDN 046-00-00-021.01). Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading. He
explained that this parcel is owned by the United States Postal Service and the
front 150-foot strip already lies within the city boundaries. This ordinance
will place the entire parcel within the city limits.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex areas north of McCullum, East of Old SR17,
Both Sides of Pelly Road and West of Fowler Creek Road – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would approve the City’s intent to annex approximately sixty parcels
bounded on the west by SR17, on the east by Fowler Creek Road, on the South by
Oliver Road and to the north, just north of Pelly Road. Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a first reading. He advised Council that if more than fifty percent
of the property owners protest the City’s intent to annex, then the issue would
be placed on the General Election ballot in November where the issue would be
decided.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment Pertaining to Floodplain Regulations &
Enclosure Requirements for Swimming Pools – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would approve a zoning text amendment accepting the recommendation of the
Kenton County Planning Commission’s recommendation (Number 1688R) and approve
text amendments to the City’s zoning ordinance modifying flood plain
regulations and enclosure requirements for swimming pools. Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2007-R-06 – Authorizing Mayor to Enter into MRA 2007/08 Co-op
Agreement with the State
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-06 which would
approve the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program contract with the State
Transportation Cabinet for the 2007-2008 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2007-R-06.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-06, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
Mayor Moriconi stated that by entering into the MRA Co-op, the city will be
eligible to apply for emergency funding. He advised he planned to apply for
emergency funding for repairs needed for Cody Road due to slippage.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-06 – Approve Re-appointment of Mary Hellman to
Senior Board
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order 2007-MO-06 that would re-
appoint Mary Hellman to the Senior Board of Directors. Council Member Bushong
moved to adopt Municipal Order 2007-MO-06, seconded by Council Member Behler.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
General Discussion – Dogs Running Loose
Council Member Franzen stated she has been receiving complaints about dogs
running loose in neighborhoods. She stated she spoke with the County Animal
Control and learned they only work Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. A discussion
ensued. Chief Butler advised that if the dog is vicious the animal control will
respond after hours. He stated the County only has four wardens to cover the
entire county area Council Member Franzen stated she would like to sponsor an
ordinance that would ban ownership of pit bulls; one similar to the one adopted
by the City of Covington. Mr. Deters stated he would research the issue and
draft an ordinance for the Council to consider.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:59 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 7, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 7,
2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then
called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the April 2, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on April 2, 2007. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. There were no amendments noted. Roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstain by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried.
Presentation by Michael Strohm – Land Uses for Proposed Jail Site on New SR17
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Michael Strohm, a professional museum
interpreter. Mr. Strohm conducts Audubon field programs for elementary school
classes in rural Kenton County with a focus on wildlife art, natural resources
conservation and Kentucky history.
Mr. Strohm stated he has lived on Pelly Road for twenty-five years and
expressed concern about the impact the proposed Kenton County jail would have
on the Fowler Creek corridor. He stated the area is a discovery zone for young
children and would like to see it developed as a nature preserve and resource
center. He stated he has discussed the possibility of this type of land use
concept with Kenton County Commission Dan Humpert and wanted to present the
idea to the City to see if they would be receptive as well. He stated that
Kenton County does not have this type of facility and if the Fiscal Court finds
another viable site for the new jail, then this property would be an excellent
use for a nature preserve.
Update on Downtown Small Area Study by Keith Logsdon, NKAPC Planner
Mr. Keith Logsdon provided the Council with an update of the Downtown Small
Area Study. He distributed a calendar of the remaining activities beginning May
14, 2007 and ending August 2, 2007. Activities include a real estate
roundtable, public open house on May 31, 2007, draft presentation of the
project to the City Council at the June 4, 2007 meeting and final draft by June
18, 2007. Mr. Logsdon stated that City Council will be asked to review the
final document for adoption sometime between June 25 and July 2, 2007 so that
it can be presented to the Kenton County Planning Commission at their August 2,
2007 meeting with their recommendation back to the City and on the City’s
September meeting agenda.
Proclamation – Building Safety Week
Mayor Moriconi read a Proclamation declaring the week of May 6, 2007 as
Building Safety Week.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-03 – Zoning Text Amendment Modifying Flood Plain
Regulations and the Requirements for Swimming Pool Enclosures – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2007-O-03, which
would approve a zoning text amendment modifying flood plain regulations and the
requirements for swimming pool enclosures. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-
O-03.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-03, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Closing a Portion of Apple Drive – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
close a portion of Apple Drive. He advised Council that a section of Apple
Drive has been rerouted due to the road improvements to SR17 (Madison Pike) Mr.
Deters stated the leftover portion of Apple Drive would serve no purpose and
the abutting property owners (James D. Grubbs Trust and Grubbs Properties, LLC)
have submitted a notarized request and consent to the proposed closing. He
stated the property owners will be expanding their business and will need to
have this section of Apple Drive closed before a building permit can be issued
by the City. Mr. Deters read the ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Budget for 2007-2008 Fiscal Year – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed budget for
the 2007/2008 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
In his attached budget address, Mayor Moriconi stated that the budget assumes
the adoption of a compensating rate for property taxes. He also highlighted the
major expenses which included: $600,000 for an aggressive street repair
program, two additional police officers – one to be hired in July and one in
January, the purchase of a dump truck for the Public Services Dept., storm
sewer project on Production Drive which will be a collaborative effort with the
Sanitation District, and a $15,000 increase in the park improvements. In
addition, Mayor Moriconi advised council that the employees would begin paying
a portion of their health insurance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Pay & Classification Plan – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance to
update the personnel and pay classification plan. He stated this is updated
each year along with the budget. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Award Bid for Fowler Creek Pump Station Parcel
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the one bid that the City received for the
purchase of the old pump station property on Fowler Creek Road (PIDN 046-00-00-
072.01). The bid was submitted by Tim Reese of Centerline in the amount of
$200.00. This parcel adjoins land that is being developed by Centerline. There
was a brief discussion by Council regarding the low bid as PVA has the parcel
valued at $1,000. Council asked the city attorney to look into the possibility
of the City asking for a minimum bid amount in the future when these parcels
are declared surplus and sold. Mr. Deters stated that he felt sure that the
City could require all fees associated with the sale and transfer of the
property to be paid for by the purchaser.
Council Member Bushong moved to award the bid of $200.00 to Centerline,
seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered with four ayes
and two nays by Council Members Yeager and Little. Motion carried 4-2.
SD1 Agreement for Storm Sewer Repairs on Production Drive
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed Agreement between the City and
The Sanitation District relating to the Production Drive storm sewer
replacement project. The project has an estimated cost of $427,686 of which the
SD1 Board of Directors has approved up to a 50% cost share amount of $213,843.
A brief discussion ensued regarding Section 26 of the Agreement wherein the
City would acknowledge that the funding is being supplied from the SD1 Storm
Water Surcharge account which is currently involved in a lawsuit (Wessels
Company LLC et al v. Sanitation District No. 1, et al, Boone Circuit Court,
Case No. 05-CI-299) and in the event that SD1 should lose this lawsuit the City
would be required to refund the amount SD1 contributed to this project. Further
discussion resulted in Council reaching a consensus that the project was
necessary and decided to authorize the Mayor to enter into the Agreement.
Motion was made by Council Member Franzen, seconded by Council Member Bushong
to authorize the Mayor to enter into the Agreement with SD1 to share the cost
of the Production Drive storm sewer replacement project. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-07 – Declaring 4406-A Oliver Road as Surplus Property
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-07 that would declare
4406-A Oliver Road (PIDN 406-40-00-044.00) as surplus property. This property
was originally used to house a sewer pump station which is no longer in use.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-07, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-08 – Supporting the Application of a Text Amendment
Relating to “Bed and Breakfast”
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-08 that would support
the application of a text amendment to the official zoning ordinance of the
City to permit “Bed and Breakfast” as a permitted use in the R1-C zone. Mr.
Deters read the resolution.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-08, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-09 – Supporting the Application of a Map Amendment in
Conjunction with Annexation
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-09 that would support
a map amendment changing approximately five acres of land on the west side of
Fowler Creek Road at its intersection with Parkerridge Drive from R-1A to R1-C.
The Mayor explained that this parcel is part of the larger area being annexed
by the City and that the property owner has stated they will voluntary consent
to the annexation if the City will support the zone change prior to the
annexation. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2007-R-09.
Council Member Franzen moved to Adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-09, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-10 – Relating to Zoning Text Amendment Regarding
Recreational Vehicles
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-10 that would concur
with the Kenton County Planning Commission’s recommendation made in 1867R to
disapprove a text amendment relating to the parking of recreation vehicles as
proposed by the city and also would authorize an application for
recommendations on an amendment to it official zoning ordinance regarding
requirements for the parking of recreational vehicles in other than the rear
yard. Mr. Deters read the resolution.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-10, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler requested Council to declare four of the older police vehicles as
surplus property, three of which are 12-13 years old and not in service. He
stated he would like to place then in the county auction and that the revenue
would be put into the general fund.
Council Member Yeager moved to declare the list of vehicles submitted by Chief
Butler as surplus property, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report but would need to have an Executive
Session with the Mayor and Council.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-07 – Appointing Catherine E. Wilson to the Board of
Adjustments
Mayor Moriconi presented and read to Council Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-07
appointing Catherine E. Wilson to the Board of Adjustments. Council Member
Bushong moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-07, seconded by Council
Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Update on New Section of SR17
Mayor Moriconi reported that the construction of the new section SR17 is on
schedule and is expected to be opened from Pelly Road to Walton-Nicholson Pike
by the end of this year.
Discussion Regarding Vicious Dogs
Council Member Franzen reported that she is working on drafting a vicious dogs
ordinance for the City Council to consider adopting. She has been reviewing
Covington’s ordinance and urged the Council to get on ’’’’Covington’’’s website
to review it.
Kenton County Proposed Jail
Council Member Franzen also reported that the possible alternative sites for
the new Kenton County Jail has been pared down to five sites and she is
optimistic that the proposed jail will not be built at the new SR17 and Pelly
Road site that was originally announced by the Kenton County Fiscal Court.
Executive Session
Council Member Yeager moved to enter into an Executive Session in accordance
with K.R.S. 61.810(c) to discuss sewers and condemnations, seconded by Council
Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of the Council
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:35 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 4, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 4,
2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then
called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the May 7, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on May 7, 2007. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. No amendments were noted. Roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Downtown Small Area Study by Keith Logsdon, NKAPC Planner
Mayor Moriconi introduced Keith Logsdon of the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission who provided Council with a brief update on the Downtown Small Area
Study project and distributed an activity schedule with revised dates to get
the draft of the study submitted to the Council and the Kenton County Planning
Commission for their recommendation. Mr. Logsdon advised the final phases of
the study would include an open house at the Senior Center, as well as a public
display in the lobby of the Municipal Center of information compiled to date.
He stated comment sheets would be available to obtain citizen input. Mr.
Logsdon advised that the Council would receive a preliminary draft by June 18,
2007 so they could provide him with their input prior to the presentation of
the final document to Council at the July meeting. Emily Listerman, NKAPC
advised that they have received good feedback from the citizens. Council Member
Behler stated she has heard some negative comments from the public that are
afraid the study results will “be written in stone” and that their taxes will
increase. Ms. Listerman advised that this document should be considered as and
used as a reference guide for future planning, but that nothing in the study
should be considered concrete. Council Member Behler stated that she hoped that
the new businesses would come into the city which would increase the commercial
tax base, thereby increasing the City’s tax revenue.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-06 – Intent to Annex areas north of McCullum, East of Old
SR17, both sides of Pelly Road and West of Fowler Creek Road
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that he would move discussion of Ordinance No.
2007-O-06 up on the Agenda, as many of the property owners were present and had
legal counsel here to address Council.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Mr. Dennis Williams, a Covington attorney
representing approximately forty-two property owners on Pelly Road, Fowler
Creek Road, Oliver Road, Jimmie Lane and McMillan Drive. Mayor Moriconi advised
Council that the property owners are protesting the City’s intent to annex
their parcels. Mr. Williams submitted a petition with forty-three signatures
declaring that they do no desire to be annexed. He stated these citizens were
against the proposed annexation and reminded Council that state law requires
the issue to be put on the general election ballot for those in the affected
area. He stated that this election would be at the City’s cost and would fail
as these forty-three residents represent sixty-nine percent of the area’s
total. Mayor Moriconi advised that the main reason the City was proposing to
annex this area was to close the gaps in the city boundaries. Mr. Deters
advised Council that if more than fifty-percent of the property owners file the
petition protesting the annexation, then it would be put on the ballot for a
vote.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to table the second reading of Ordinance No. 2007-O-06. A discussion
ensued wherein Council reached a consensus to withdraw their interest in
annexing this area. Council Members Franzen and Yeager withdrew their motion
and second.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to not adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-06. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. The motion carried 6-0 and Ordinance No. 2007-O-06 was not
adopted. (Clerk’s note: Ordinance No. 2007-O-06 will be noted as ‘number
skipped’ in the city records.)
Ordinance No. 2007-O-04 – Intent to Annex 4545 Oliver Road – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
04 which would approve the Intent to Annex 4545 Oliver Road. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2007-O-04. Mayor Moriconi asked if the property owner was
present; no one came forward.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-04, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-05 – Intent to Annex 5106 ––Madison– Pike – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
05 which would approve the Intent to Annex the unincorporated portion of 5106
Madison Pike. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-05.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-05, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-07 – Closing a Portion of Apple Drive – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-07 that
would close a portion of Apple Drive. Mr. Deters read the Ordinance.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-07, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-08 – Adopt Budget for 2007/08 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed budget for
the 2007/2008 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-08.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-08, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-09 – Adopt Pay & Classification Plan – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
09 that would update the personnel and pay classification plan. He stated this
is updated each year along with the budget. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-
O-09.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-09, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-11 – Authorize Lease Purchase Agreement for Cruisers
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration Resolution No.
2007-R-11 which would approve a master lease-purchase agreement with Fifth
Third Bank for the financing of four new police cruisers. Chief Butler stated
the interest rate would be 4.94%.
Council Member Little moved to approve Resolution No. 2007-R-11, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexing Proposed Jail Site – 22.53 Acres East Side of New
SR 17, South of Pelly Road – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading an ordinance that would
annex the proposed jail site on the new section of SR17. This is a 22.53 acre
parcel lying on the easterly side of the relocated SR 17, south of Pelly Road.
Mr. Deters gave the Ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Closing a Portion of ––––Jimae ––Ct.––– – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading an ordinance that would
close a portion of Jimae Court which is no longer needed as future development.
Mr. Deters gave the Ordinance a first reading and stated that the abutting
property owners – Frederick Garnett, Sara Clayton and HRC Ltd. - were given
written notification of the proposed closing and each have submitted notarized
consent to the closing.
Police Chief Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he had nothing to report.
City Attorney Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that the city’s Independence Day celebration will be
held this year on June 29 & June 30. He stated the parade will be held on
Saturday, June 30th at 3:00 p.m. with a grand fireworks display by Vito’s at
10:00 p.m.
Mayor Moriconi also announced that he is considering the cancellation of the
regular meeting of July 2nd due to vacations, etc. He stated that he will be
checking with everyone to see if a quorum can be available for a meeting later
in July.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Behler asked if Mr. Deters was able to learn if the City can
require a minimum bid when selling surplus property. Mr. Deters responded that
the City can request a minimum bid as well as the reimbursement of costs the
City incurs with the advertising, property transfer, etc.
Council Member Brinker thanked everyone that voted in the primary election.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:44 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 2, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 2,
2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then
called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Michael Little
and Donna Yeager. Council Member Carol Franzen was absent. Also present was
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the June 4, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on June 4, 2007. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-10 – Closing a Portion of Jimae Court – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-10 that
would close a portion of Jimae Court, which is considered no longer, needed for
future development. The area being closed is the fifty (50) foot by one hundred
thirty-three (133) foot portion of Jimae Court lying and being directly between
lot numbers 36 and 37 of the Beauty View Acres subdivision. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2007-O-10.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-10, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Council Member Yeager commented that with the closing of
this paper street, the property owners on the left side of Jimae Court would
have more trespassers using their yards as a shortcut to the Cherokee Shopping
Plaza. She stated she would like to see the City come up with a solution to
prevent the trespassing. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Award Bid of Surplus City Property at 4406-A Oliver Road
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the lone bid received for the sale of a
parcel of land located at 4406-A Oliver Road that used to house a sewer pump
station and is no longer in operation. He stated the bid was received from
Glenn S. Pryor at 4406 Oliver Road in the amount of $300.00. Mayor Moriconi
asked for a motion to accept the bid.
Council Member Behler moved to accept the bid received from Mr. Pryor for
$300.00 plus the expenses associated with the publication of the legal notice
accepting bids and all other related costs and that the $300.00 should be
credited to the Fowler Creek Sewer debt. Council Member Little seconded the
motion. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Award Bid for Oliver Road and Stephens Road Street Repairs
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the bid tabulation sheet from the city
engineer (CDS Associates) for the street resurfacing of Oliver Road and
Stephens Road. He stated that five bids were received with the low bid being
from Barrett Paving in the amount of $145,065 and the high bid from Paul
Michels & Sons in the amount of $176,525. He stated the city engineer is
recommending the City award the bid to Barrett Paving. Council Member Little so
moved, with second by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered with
all ayes; motion carried 5-0. Mayor Moriconi commented that the engineer’s
estimate for this project was approximately $200,000 so with the low bid coming
in approximately $50,000 lower than that estimate the City will have extra
funds to repair another street this year.
Award Bid for Phase I of the Production Drive Storm Sewer Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the bid tabulation sheet from the city
engineer for the Phase I portion of the Production Drive Storm Sewer Project.
He stated that ten (10) bids were received with the low bid of $266,357 from
Bray Arnsperger and the high bid of $419,643 from Larry smith Contractors.
Council Member Yeager moved to award the bid to Bray Arnsperger in the amount
of $266,357, seconded by Council Member Behler. Council Member Behler commented
that the second low bid was $310,613 and wondered why the disproportion. Mayor
Moriconi could not say but advised that the project’s estimated cost was much
higher than the low bid received and that even if change orders are requested
by the contractor, that it should not reach the city engineer’s original
estimated costs for this project. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Recreational
Vehicles – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend the city’s zoning ordinance, Section 9.23, regarding the regulations for
the parking or storing of trailers, recreational vehicles, campers, boats and
other similar equipment in all zoning districts. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance.
Resolution No. 2007-R-12 – Accepting Recommendation of KCPC 1873R to Deny Text
Amendment Adding “Bed & Breakfast” Establishments as a Permitted Use in the R-
1C Zone & Supporting an Application as a Conditional Use
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a recommendation by the KCPC (Kenton County
Planning Commission) to disapprove the City’s application for a proposed text
amendment adding “bed and breakfast” to the list of permitted uses within the
R-1C zone. A discussion ensued about the City’s options with regard to this
recommendation from the KCPC. Mr. Deters advised the Council could adopt a
Resolution to accept the recommendation to deny the text amendment as a
permitted use and make a new application requesting that “bed and breakfast”
establishments be added as a conditional use.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-12 accepting the
KCPC recommendation to disapprove a “bed and breakfast” as a permitted use and
to make a new application for a text amendment allowing this type of
establishment to be a conditional use. Council Member Little seconded the
motion; roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that the City Clerk has been accepted into the
Leadership Northern Kentucky program sponsored through the Northern Kentucky
Chamber of Commerce.
Mayor Moriconi stated that the City’s July 4th Celebration held on June 29th
and 30th was a huge success with a record crowd for the fireworks display on
Saturday night. He thanked all the sponsors and everyone who worked to make it
a success.
Executive Session
There being no further regular business to discuss, Mayor Moriconi entertained
a motion to enter into an Executive Session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810
(c) to discuss pending litigation on a sewer related issue and a right-of-way
issue. Council Member Bushong so moved, seconded by Council Member Little
Motion carried with all ayes. At 7:14 p.m. Council retired to the Executive
Session room.
At 7:30 p.m. Council Member Yeager moved to reconvene the regular session of
the Council meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with
all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:31 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 23, 2007
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, July 23, 2007 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409
Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then called the
meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Michael
Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters. Mayor
Moriconi announced that a quorum was present for this special meeting regarding
the items posted on the Agenda. He stated he would like to change the order of
a couple of items on the Agenda. No objections were voiced.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Recognition of Twenhofel Students chosen to attend the Junior National
Youth Leadership Conference in Washington, D.C.
·   Presentation and Discussion of the Downtown Small Area Study
·   Discuss a Proposed Ordinance to approve a map amendment of an approximate
30-Acre area located on the east side of Turkeyfoot Road across from Industrial
Road – Possible 1st Reading
·   Discuss a Stage II development plan for an approximate 1.5 Acre area
located along the south side of Centennial Blvd. approximately 800 feet east of
Madison Pike (NKAPC No. Z-07-06-06/1882R
·   Ordinance No. 2007-O-11 – Approving a Text Amendment relating to
Recreational Vehicle Regulations – 2nd Reading
·   Discuss a Proposed Ordinance to Adopt the 2007 Supplement to the Code of
Ordinances – Possible 1st Reading
·   Executive Session (if necessary)
Recognition of Twenhofel Students
Mayor Moriconi introduced Taylor Zumwalt & Sydney Schuler of Twenhofel Middle
School who have been chosen by their teachers, along with four other students,
to attend the Junior National Youth Leadership Conference to be held in
Washington, D.C. He also introduced their teacher and chaperone Beverly
Johnson. Mayor Moriconi presented the students with a bag they could take on
their trip to remind them of their hometown.
Proposed Ordinance to approve a map amendment of an approximate 30-Acre area
located on the east side of Turkeyfoot Road across from Industrial Road, KCPC
No. 1874R – Possible 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance to approve the
recommendation of the KCPC (Kenton County Planning Commission) to approve a
zone change for an approximate 30-acre area located on the east side of
Turkeyfoot Road, across from Industrial Road, from R-1B, R-1C and R-3 to an NC
(neighborhood commercial). Mayor Moriconi introduced Mike Schwartz of the NKAPC
(Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission) who was present to answer any
questions that Council may have. Mr. Schwartz advised that the KCPC held a
public hearing on the requested zone change on June 7, 2007 and that Council
has ninety days to take action or the KCPC recommendation to approve the
request will go into effect. Council Member Yeager asked if there would be
egress onto Thomas Drive and Mr. Schwartz stated no; that the KCPC imposed a
condition that egress would not be allowed onto Thomas Drive.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Justin Verst of Viox & Viox Engineers who
conducted a fifteen minute 3-D animation power point presentation of the
proposed site layout plan by Eagle Development Company. Mr. Verst advised that
Eagle Development has mainly worked in the Louisville area and that this would
be their first development in Northern Kentucky. He stated that the KCPC
recommendation was to approve the zone change subject to three conditions; two
being there would be no connections to Thomas Drive or Turkeyfoot Road. He
stated they would try to get an egress onto the LSI driveway. He stated that
the third condition imposed by the KCPC related to making the pedestrian access
more amenable. Mr. Verst advised that Eagle Development is also working with
the adjacent property owners – Remke’s and Huntington Bank – to assist them in
relocation to the new site and then renovate the existing building to update
the entire area.
Mr. Jerry Dusing, legal counsel for Eagle Development, stated that he would
like to emphasize that the current Comprehensive Update has the site earmarked
for expansion of the Southern Wood Village apartment complex as it had access
off of the old Turkeyfoot Road. Currently there is no physical access so it was
assumed there is no reasonable way to develop. He stated that this proposed
development plan provides the City with an opportunity for a nice mixed use
development. Mr. Dusing also advised that a traffic study was conducted and
presented the City with that report and stated that the traffic engineer is
present at this meeting to address any concerns that Council may have.
Council Member Bushong asked if the Remke grocery store would be relocating to
this planned development site. Mr. Ken Holiday of Huff Commercial Group advised
that Eagle Development has already purchased the Remke store site as well as
the Huntington Bank property, which are the north and south corners of
Industrial Road and Turkeyfoot Road, directly across from the planned
development site. He stated Eagle plans to expand and/or relocate the
businesses. He advised Council that Eagle would not market the other retail
sites until the zone change is approved. Mr. Verst commented that the north
side of the development is targeted for a professional office building that
would house doctor’s offices, etc.
Mr. Wardell Wilcox of Jacobs Engineering Group, 895 Central Avenue, Cincinnati,
Ohio, submitted for the City’s record a comprehensive traffic engineering
study. A lengthy discussion ensued about the traffic control and designating
the main street as a sub-collector road. Council expressed concerns about this
becoming a through street which could present safety issues for the residents.
The consensus of Council was that this road should be designated as a sub-
collector.
Other concerns that Mayor Moriconi and Council Members discussed were landscape
buffers for the adjacent/adjoining residential property owners, providing a
rear entry to the development that could be used by the nearby apartment
complex residents, geographic issues, detention ponds and a de-acceleration
lane to keep the traffic moving. Mayor Moriconi commented that the residents
have waited twenty years to get the needed road improvements to Turkeyfoot Road
and he is concerned this development may result in new traffic congestion.
Mr. Verst commented that they have agreed to the conditions imposed by the KCPC
and will do whatever the City requires as well. Another Eagle Development
representative commented that there has been a major physical change in this
area of Turkeyfoot Road since the Comprehensive Plan was last adopted.
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for citizen comments on this planned
development.
Raymond Kerl, 3933 Thomas Drive, Independence – expressed concerns regarding
––––Richardson Road–– traffic. He stated that he feels the apartment owner will
eventually sell. He stated he currently has a lot of foot traffic from the
apartment complex crossing his yard and feels this retail development will only
make matters worse.
Further discussion ensued about the traffic issues and designating the road as
a sub-collector. Council Member Little commented that there are a number of
methods to control traffic concerns as a part of the preliminary plat approval.
Council Member Franzen commented that she feels this is an important gateway
into the City. She moved to have a first reading of the proposed ordinance that
would approve this map amendment as recommended by KCPC and subject to the
additional condition that the street is designated as a sub-collector road.
Council Member Bushong seconded the motion. A brief discussion ensued about
finding a solution to discourage the use of shortcuts by surrounding residents
when accessing the retail development area. Suggestions included privacy fences
and elimination of walkways which the developer will take under consideration.
There being no further discussion, Council Member Franzen’s motion carried with
all ayes and Mr. Deter’s read the proposed ordinance approving the map
amendment with the added condition that the street will be designated as a sub-
collector.
Recess
Council Member Bushong moved to have a brief recess, seconded by Council Member
Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene; seconded by Council Member Little.
Motion carried with all ayes.
Presentation and Discussion of the Downtown Small Area Study
Mayor Moriconi introduced Craig Gossman of KKG of KKG Architects and Keith
Logsdon of NKAPC who presented the results of the Downtown Small Area Study.
Mr. Gossman distributed a handout which provided details of the study process,
which included public input and the recommendations for implementation for the
City. He stated the Study includes a plan to help guide future development in
order to stay ahead of the growth. He stated that they looked at the north and
south gateways into the City as well as the McCullum Pike area. Mr. Gossman
stressed that this Study was merely a land use concept plan and is not intended
to mandate zone changes within the City. He stated the Plan calls for more
mixed use developments. He stated that the results of the public input were
that the people wanted to retain the rural, small-town feel of the City and
preserve historic downtown. He stated the residents would also like buffers
from the commercially developed area, more restaurant and entertainment
choices, wayfinding and more sidewalks throughout the City. Mr. Gossman
concluded by saying that the Plan also provides design recommendations,
transportation recommendations, economic development initiatives and an
implementation plan.
Mayor Moriconi thanked everyone who participated in this Study. There was a
brief exchange of questions and answers after which Mayor Moriconi asked for a
motion to adopt the Study, which would then be presented to the KCPC for an
approval to include the results of this Study as part of the Comprehensive
Update for Independence. Council Member Franzen commented that one of the
recommended initiatives of this Study was to hire a City Administrator,
Economic Development Director or Professional Planner to assist in implementing
this Plan. She stated she would like to work toward that goal and hopes this
Study will not sit on a shelf like prior studies the City has done. Council
Member Behler concurred.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt the Downtown Small Area Study, seconded
by Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0. Mayor Moriconi thanked everyone for their involvement in the study
and commented that he feels this is a great investment in the City’s future.
Stage II Development Plan for an approximate 1.5 Acre area located along the
south side of Centennial Blvd. approximately 800 feet east of Madison Pike
(NKAPC No. Z-07-06-06/1882R
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the recommendation from NKAPC for a Stage
II Development plan from Ashley Development for an approximate 1.5 acre area
located along the south side of Centennial Boulevard, approximately 800 feet
east of Madison Pike.
Mr. Bill Kreutzjans of Ashley Development Group addressed Council and advised
that the NKAPC has reviewed their application and recommended denial based on
lack of information attached to their application. He stated that at the time
of the application they had not identified the use and did not have signage
information.
Mike Schwartz of the NKAPC explained to Council that if they don’t know what
all the uses will be they can’t know if they will meet parking requirements,
etc. Mr. Kreutzjans stated this will be a retail strip center that will house a
coffee shop, bank and other unknown retail space. He stated the structure will
be approximately 13,280 square feet, with six tenants. Currently they only have
two committed tenants.
A discussion ensued wherein Council Member Little commented that if the City
approves a Stage II development without more details, then zoning issues could
fall through the cracks when each thing has to be addressed individually which
results in ten times the work for the City. Council Member Behler stated that
NKAPC is paid to review the plan, which they have denied and she is not
comfortable approving this until the revised plan is re-submitted for another
review. Mr. Jim Bertram attempted to explain that it is difficult to determine
uses when they are in the process of leasing space which has to be set up
specifically for each tenant.
Council Member Behler moved to accept the NKAPC staff recommendation to
disapprove the Stage II Development plan and that Ashley Development re-submit
their plan to NKAPC, seconded by Council Member Little. A brief discussion
ensued wherein Mr. Bertram asked for a postponement to give them time to revise
the plan and get it back to NKAPC. Council Member Little expressed concern that
an attempt should not be made to try to circumvent the plan review system.
Council Member Franzen asked how they could help speed up the process since the
developer want to get this development started next month. Roll was called on
the motion and resulted in a tie vote; Council Members Behler, Little and
Bushong voicing yes votes and Council Members Franzen, Yeager and Brinker
voting no. This vote resulted in no action taken.
Council Member Franzen moved to table the issue so Ashley Development can re-
submit their plan to NKAPC and then back to the City. Further discussion
between Mr. Schwartz and the Council resulted in Council Member Franzen
withdrawing her motion and Mr. Schwartz suggesting the Council approve the
Stage II development plan subject to compliance with the following conditions:
1.   That all uses be from the list as identified in Section 10.12, E. of the
Independence Zoning Ordinance.
2.   That all required off-street parking spaces be provided, pursuant to
Section 11.2 of the Independence Zoning Ordinance.
3.   That each façade sign not exceed 40 square feet in area and that each
ground sign not exceed 60 square feet in area.
4.   That each off-street parking space be a minimum of 9 feet in width and a
minimum of 18 feet in length.
5.   That the paving of the off-street parking area meet the minimum
requirements of Appendix A of the Independence Zoning Ordinance
Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-11 – Approving a Text Amendment relating to Recreational
Vehicle Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-11 which
would approve a text amendment to Section 9.23 of the official Zoning Ordinance
regarding the parking or storing of trailers, RV’s, campers, boats and other
similar equipment. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-11, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance to Adopt the 2007 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances –
Possible 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would adopt the
2007 supplement to the Code of Ordinances. Mayor Moriconi advised this is a
housekeeping ordinance that effectively incorporates all ordinances enacted the
last two years into the current Code. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Executive Session
At 10:23 p.m. Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to move into an executive
session. Mr. Deters stated the executive session would be pursuant to KRS
61.810 1(b) and (c) to discuss acquisition of real estate and pending
litigation. Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Yeager.
Motion carried with all ayes.
At 10:35 Council Member Little moved to reconvene the regular session of the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Authorize Mayor to Negotiate the Acquisition of Real Property
Mr. Deters announced that as a result of the discussion in Executive Session,
the Council has decided to authorize Mayor Moriconi to negotiate a purchase
price for a parcel of real estate. Council Member Franzen moved to authorize
the Mayor to begin negotiations at $70,000 for this purchase of land contingent
on obtaining an appraisal of the property. Council Member Behler seconded the
motion. Motion carried with all ayes
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 10:37 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 27, 2007
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, August 27, 2007 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then called the
meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Michael
Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters. Mayor
Moriconi announced that a quorum was present for this special meeting regarding
the items posted on the Agenda.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Ordinance No. 2007-O-12 – Discussion & Possible Action to Annex 22.53 Acres
Along new Section of SR17 (Proposed Kenton County Jail Site ) – 2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2007-O-13 - Discussion & Possible Action Approving a Zoning
Map Amendment of an Approximate 30-Acre Area located on the East Side of
Turkeyfoot Road across from Industrial Road – 2nd Reading
·   Proposed Ordinance - Discussion & Possible Action – Approving a zoning text
amendment Relating to Bed & Breakfast Establishments – 1st Reading
·   Proposed Ordinance – Discussion & Possible Action – Adopting 2007 Property
Tax Rates – 1st Reading
·   Resolution No. 2007-R-13 - Discussion & Possible Action – Supporting the
Application of a Grant for Body Armor
·   Resolution No. 2007-R-14 – Discussion & Possible Action – Authorizing a
Lease-Purchase Agreement with Fifth Third Bank for a New Public Works Vehicle
·   Executive Session (if necessary)
Ordinance No. 2007-O-12 – Annexation of 22.53 acres Along the New Section of
SR17 (Proposed Kenton County Jail Site) – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-12 annexing
the 22.53 acre parcel (PIDN 046-00-00-025.02) on the easterly side of relocated
SR17, south of Pelly Road, and currently owned by the Kenton County Fiscal
Court. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-12.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-12, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Council Member Franzen commented that she wanted
residents to know that while the City is annexing this property to reap the tax
benefits, she will not give up the fight to prevent the Fiscal Court from
building the new jail on this site. She stated she feels that everyone should
continue exerting pressure on the county commissioners to look elsewhere for a
more appropriate site. Mayor Moriconi agreed that they would not give up the
fight. Council Member Brinker wondered if there was a way to make this site
less attractive to the county. There being no further discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-13 – Approving Map Amendment (KCPC 1874R) of an
Approximate 30-Acre Site Located on the East Side of Turkeyfoot Road across
from Industrial Road – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-13, but
before having the reading said he would allow comments from anyone in
attendance that would like to address the Council on this issue.
Bob Morehead, 4070 Richardson Road, Independence – voiced his opposition to the
proposed development. His major concerns was increased traffic in the area,
adverse topographical conditions and that he feels that residents do not want
this retail area so close to their homes and they feel this will devalue their
properties.
Richard (Rick) Hill, 4048 Richardson Road, Independence – voiced his opposition
to the proposed development. He expressed concern about the area between the
apartments and the proposed development site. He wanted to know if there were
alternate plans for the apartments. Mr. Deters commented that this was not part
of the proposal by Eagle Development and suggested he speak to the owner of the
property he was referring to.
Betty A. McGee, 4013 Turkeyfoot Road, (Erlanger) Independence – voiced her
opposition to the proposed development. She stated that she is concerned this
development will increase traffic congestion and fears that her quality of life
will go down. She was also concerned that the road would be a through road.
Council informed her that the City has made that a condition of the development
Linda Morehead, 4070 Richardson Road, Independence – spoke in opposition to the
proposed development. She also stated that she is concerned how this
development is going to generate increased traffic to the area and the impact
that will have. She stated that she feels this will be nothing more than a
strip mall.
Barry Bonneville, 377 Florence Drive, (Erlanger) Independence – voiced his
opposition to the proposed development. He stated he would like to see the city
impose a greater buffer zone between the residential properties. He stated he
would also like the city to require an embankment and walls that would prevent
him from viewing this development from his property.
Kathy Espelage, 11513 Staffordsburg Road, Independence (unincorporated) –
stated that she is not a resident of the City, but that she took interest in
the City’s Downtown Small Area Study and she feels this development is in
conflict with the results of the study.
Raymond Kerl, 3933 Thomas Drive, (Erlanger) Independence – expressed concern
about the nearby apartment complex owned by Lanny Holbrook and said he didn’t
see why the City didn’t condemn the buildings. Mayor Moriconi advised him that
was an entirely different issue and could not be discussed at tonight’s special
meeting due to state laws regulating special meetings.
Representatives from Eagle Development responded to the concerns expressed by
the residents that addressed Council. Realty broker Ken Holiday, commented that
the property, as currently zoned would allow twenty apartment units per acre,
up to six hundred apartments which he feels would be an ugly alternative to
this proposed commercial development. He advised that with this development the
City can expect to see upscale restaurants and stores that will have imposed
architectural controls. He also stated that Eagle Development has already
purchased the commercial properties across the street (currently Remke’s retail
center and Huntington Bank which are located at the north and south corners of
Industrial Rd and Turkeyfoot Rd.), which will be re-developed. Jonathan Brown,
traffic engineer with Viox & Viox Engineers advised that a traffic study was
conducted which has determined that the traffic this development will generate
will not be a detriment to the area in general.
Council Members Yeager and Franzen asked if the developers had met with the
residents beforehand to get their input regarding the plans for this
development. Mr. Holiday stated they had met with some individual residents
when requesting to purchase their properties, but other than that the residents
had opportunities to share their concerns at the public hearings. Council
Member Bushong stated that the Planning Commission sent letters to the adjacent
property owners notifying them of the public hearing.
Ms. McGee asked if the road was denied by the city. Council advised her that
the road will be deemed a sub-collector and not be a through street to
Richardson Road.
At this time Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to give the Ordinance a second
reading. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-13.
Council Member Yeager moved to postpone the adoption of this ordinance until
the developers could sit down with the residents to address some of the
concerns they expressed. Council Member Franzen agreed. Mayor Moriconi advised
Council that this special meeting was called in order to take action on this
map amendment request as the deadline for the City to do this is September 5th.
Council Member Yeager’s motion died for lack of a second. A lengthy discussion
ensued.
Mr. Deters advised the Council that they had three options; those being:
1)   They could follow the KCPC recommendation without a hearing or only an
argument-type hearing.
2)   They could review the record of the KCPC public hearing and determine from
that evidence adjudicative facts which differ from those found by the
Commission and then disapprove the recommendation based on those facts, (this
means only the record and no additional evidence) or
3)   The City could hold its own trial-type public hearing and find as a result
thereof different adjudicative facts than those found by the Commission and
then disapprove the recommendation based upon those facts. (this means making a
totally new record). Mr. Deters advised that in order for the City Council to
deny or go against such a recommendation, there must be a majority vote of the
entire legislative body. This means the vote has to be at least 4 to 2 and does
not mean a majority of members present. Four members must vote against the
proposed change.
He went on to say that the City must act on a recommendation for a map
amendment within 90 days of the recommendation. If they do not, the KCPC
recommendation becomes final by operation of law. He stated that the City is
running out of time as the 90 day time frame will end on September 5, 2007.
Council, the developer representatives and the residents in attendance
continued this discussion. Mr. Deters explained that the city would not have
time to hold its own public hearing, and then have two readings of an ordinance
prior to September 5th on this issue due to the legal advertising requirements
for public hearings. Council Member Franzen suggested delaying action on this
second reading of the Ordinance for thirty minutes or so, so that the
developers and residents could retreat to the conference room to discuss their
concerns to see if they could come to an agreement.
Council Member Behler made a motion that the City obtain of copy of the tape of
the KCPC public hearing on this issue to determine any facts which would differ
from those found by the Planning Commission that could be use to adopt an
ordinance opposing the zone change. Council Member Yeager asked if we couldn’t
oppose it tonight. Mr. Deters advised the Council would still need two special
meetings prior to September 5th to perform two readings of an ordinance to
oppose the zone change. Council Member Franzen stated she would like the
developers to speak with the residents to see if they can provide them some
assurances and give them some satisfaction. Again, Mr. Deters advised they have
limited time to act on this issue. Council Member Little commented the City
faced a similar situation a year or so ago and after developers met with the
residents they were able to resolve some issues. Mayor Moriconi commented that
it may not be possible to resolve their differences within thirty minutes or
so, but agreed to delay the vote on this ordinance for that amount of time and
permitted the residents and developers to go into the executive session room to
discuss their concerns. Mayor Moriconi stated they would continue on with the
other agenda items, including an executive session of the Council and then
resume this issue later in the meeting. Council Member Behler withdrew her
motion. The residents and developers went into the executive session room to
confer on this issue.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE – Adopting 2007 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
establish the 2007 tax rates for real and tangible properties in the City. He
stated the rates before them are the compensating rate and proposed is $0.186/
$100 of assessed value for real estate and $0.575/$100 of assessed value for
tangible properties. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance that would adopt
the rates presented.
PROPOSED ORDINANCE – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Bed &
Breakfast Establishments – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the recommendation of the KCPC to approve a zoning text amendment adding
a definition for “Bed and Breakfast Establishment” and adding “Bed and
Breakfast Establishments to the list of conditional uses within the A-2 zone
and all of the residential zones. This amendment would also add developmental
controls to each of the zones listed. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance
for a first time. Mayor Moriconi stated this would be presented for a second
reading at the September 10, 2007 regular council meeting.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-R-13 – Supporting an Application for a Body Armor Grant
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-13 which would
authorize him to enter into an Agreement with The Governor’s Office for Local
Development to participate in the Kentucky Body Armor Program. This authorizes
the execution of any documents necessary to facilitate this project and act as
the authorized correspondent.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-13, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
RESOLUTION NO. 2007-R-14 – Authorizing a Lease-Purchase Contract for a new
Public Works Vehicle
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-14 that would approve
a master lease-purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank for the financing of a
new dump truck for the Public Services Department. Mayor Moriconi read
Resolution No. 2007-R-14.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-14, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
At 8:08 p.m. Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion to enter into an executive
session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (b) to deliberate the possible
acquisition of real property. Council Member Behler so moved with second by
Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:44 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of
the council meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with
all ayes.
(Discussion Continued) on Ordinance No. 2007-O-13 – Approving Map Amendment
(KCPC 1874R) of an Approximate 30-Acre Site Located on the East Side of
Turkeyfoot Road across from Industrial Road – 2nd Reading
After the residents and developer representatives finished their discussion in
the executive session room everyone reassembled in the Council Chambers. Mayor
Moriconi announced that one of the ideas presented in the discussion between
the developers and the citizens was that the citizens be involved in the
development agreement process wherein they would have a say in how it would
look, the buffers installed, etc. He suggested they could have a committee as
they move forward with this. A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Moriconi offered
the use of the city building for the citizens and developers to meet. Mr.
Deters advised this should not be a city sponsored committee or meeting, but
that Council could mandate that a condition of their approving this map
amendment would be that the developer works with the citizens to address their
concerns which could be so stated in the Ordinance. Mr. Deters added the
appropriate language to Ordinance No. 2007-O-13 and gave it another second
reading.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-13 with the added
condition drafted and read by Mr. Deters. Motion seconded by Council Member
Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn,
seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting
ended at 9:03 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor Moriconi
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 10, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
10, 2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance
and then called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed
K. Deters.
Approval of the July 2, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on July 2, 2007. Council Member Little so moved, with second by
Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the July 23, 2007 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on July 23, 2007. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the August 27, 2007 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on July 23, 2007. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-15 – Regarding Proposed Moratorium on Electronic Message
Boards
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for discussion a Kenton County Planning
Commission recommendation to disapprove a proposed zoning text amendment that
would provide for a moratorium through December 31, 2007 on the issuance of
building and other related permits allowing the installation of any new message
board, changeable copy sign, electronic message board, tri-vision sign, nor to
all the installation of a portion of a sign that is a message board, changeable
copy sign, electronic message board, or tri-vision sign or the conversion of
any existing sign that would include these type signs. A brief discussion
ensued. Mayor Moriconi advised that the NKAPC staff is working on a model
Zoning Ordinance which has a section that regulates signage. He stated the
staff recommendation was to impose a short-term moratorium until the model
Zoning Ordinance was complete. He stated that the issue of freedom of speech
was brought up during the KCPC public hearing and because of that the KCPC
postponed taking any action on this until the Commission’s legal counsel could
advise them on the legal ramifications of a moratorium. Council Member Franzen
commented that this issue could possibly be re-presented to Council at a later
date after legal review.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2007-R-15 that would accept the KCPC
recommendation (Application No. 1885R) to not impose a moratorium through
December 31, 2007 on the issuance of permits for signage. Council Member
Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-15, seconded by Council Member
Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-17 – Authorizing the Sponsorship of a Text Amendment
Application that would Allow Class 7 signage as a Permitted Use in the NC Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a request by Atwell-Hicks, a development
consultant firm in Ohio, for the City to sponsor a zoning text amendment that
would permit Class 7 signs in the NC zone. Tom Musgrove, representing Atwell-
Hicks addressed Council regarding this request. He stated that their client is
proposing the construction of a Rite-Aid pharmacy store at the southeast corner
of Harris Pike and Madison Pike where Deaton’s Nursery is currently located. He
stated that the city’s current zoning regulations do not permit class 7 signs
in the NC (neighborhood commercial zone). Mr. Musgrove presented development
plan drawings of the Rite-Aid building which included the signs they would like
to install along with this development. Council Member Franzen advised Mr.
Musgrove that any text amendment that would be adopted by the city would not be
site specific but would affect all NC zones. Mr. Deters commented that the
Planning Commission would make a recommendation to the City. Council Member
Little asked who would pay the application fee for the text amendment. Mayor
Moriconi advised that Atwell-Hicks would pay the fee.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-17 approving the
City’s sponsorship of an application for a text amendment that would permit a
Class 7 sign in the NC zone, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was
called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member
Yeager. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-14 – Adopting the 2007 Supplement to the Code of
Ordinances – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-14 that
would adopt the 2007 supplement to the Code of Ordinances. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2007-O-14. He advised Council this is a housekeeping ordinance
which is done every two years to add in all ordinances enacted the last two
years into the current Code.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-14, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-15 – Adopting 2007 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-15 that
would adopt the 2007 property rates, both real estate and personal properties.
He stated the proposed rates are the compensating rates and have calculated as
$0.186 dollars for each $100.00 of assessed value of real estate and $0.575
dollars for each $100.00 of assessed value of personal property other than
motor vehicles. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-15.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-15, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-16 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Bed &
Breakfast Establishments – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-16 that
would adopt the recommendation of the KCPC to approve a zoning text amendment
adding a definition for “Bed and Breakfast Establishment” and adding “Bed and
Breakfast Establishments to the list of conditional uses within the A-2 zone
and all of the residential zones as well as add developmental controls to each
of the zones listed. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-16.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-16, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexing 5106 ––Madison– Pike – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
annex part of the territory known as 5106 Madison Pike, said property owned by
the United States Postal Service.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance for the first time. He commented that
annexing the back half of this parcel will bring the entire parcel into the
City’s boundaries. The front portion is currently located within the City.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexing ––––4545 Oliver Road–– – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
annex 4545 Oliver Road. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. He stated this
is a lone parcel that is completely surrounded by the City.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Zoning Text Amendment to Add New Floodplain
Regulations – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
accept the KCPC recommendation (1884R) to approve a zoning text amendment
deleting the current floodplain regulations and adding new floodplain
regulations. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Resolution No. 2007-R-16 - Accept for Maintenance Portions of Madison Pike
formerly maintained by the State
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-16 that would accept
title to and ownership and maintenance responsibility for the bypassed segments
of SR17 and certain reconstructed city streets. Mr. Deters read Resolution No.
2007-R-16. Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the State has requested the City
to take over the street remnants that resulted from the reconstruction of SR17.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-16, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried 5-1.
Council Member Brinker commented he has been trying to contact the construction
project manager working on the new SR17. He stated he wanted to request they
plant some trees to create a buffer as the new section of road runs very close
to some of the residential properties, in particular the Liberty Orchard
subdivision. Mr. Deters commented that if the right of way was in place when
the residents purchased their parcel that presents a problem in getting the
State to comply with such a request. Mayor Moriconi advised he made a request
of the State, asking them to plant some Aristocrat pear trees along the median
of the new SR17, and the request was denied. He stated that the City might need
to pursue grants to obtaining funding for such a project. Council Member
Brinker stated he would welcome grant ideas.
Police Department Report – Dave Nichols, Assistant Chief
Colonel Nichols announced that the Police Department will hold its 7th Annual
Golf Outing on Sunday, September 23, 2007. He also reported that Captain Tony
Lucas will graduate from the FBI National Academy on Friday, September 14, 2007
after a two and a half month training program. Mayor Moriconi commented that
Captain Lucas will be the fourth member of the Police Department that will have
graduated from the FBI Academy; others that have graduated are Chief Shawn
Butler, Colonel Dave Nichols and Captain Ed Bailey. Colonel Nichols commented
that this is quite an accomplishment for the P.D. as the FBI Academy only
accepts 2% of all the applications they receive each year.
Privileges of the Floor
Don Barnett, 788 Jimae, Independence – commented on the request made earlier in
the meeting by Mr. Musgrove of Atwell-Hicks who is requesting a text amendment
application to allow Class 7 signs in the NC zone. He stated that he fears if
this text amendment gets approval then Independence will start to look like the
City of Florence with a lot of undesirable signage throughout the city. Council
Member Behler agreed that it was important that the City doesn’t look like
’’’’Florence’’, but feels we should support the application to get an opinion
from the KCPC.
Rosemary Hofstetter, 146 McCullum Road, Independence – addressed Council
regarding road repairs that are needed in front of her home on ––––McCullum
Road––. She stated she has about 150-200 feet of road frontage which was torn
up during the construction of the new section of SR17. She stated the Highway
Department has removed the orange barrels but has not repaired the road. Mayor
Moriconi stated he would call the Highway Department this week to inquire when
they would be making the repairs and get back with her.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated he did not have anything to report. Council Member
Bushong asked if Senator Thayer was able to acquire some State funds on the
City’s behalf for the repairs needed on ’’’’Cody Road’’. Mayor Moriconi replied
that the City has asked for $500,000 which was denied based on the fact that
the State’s emergency fund account did not have a large enough balance to fill
this request. He said he is hoping to get $200,000 from the State.
Council Member Brinker announced he would be meeting with some residents in the
Hunters Green subdivision on Flintrock next Saturday speaking with several
families that have asked him to stop by to discuss city issues.
Council Member Franzen stated she has reviewed Covington’s vicious dog
ordinance and would like Mr. Deters to draft an ordinance for Independence,
using the Covington ordinance as a model, and submit to the Council at the
October meeting for discussion and possible action.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 1, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
1, 2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance
and then called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed
K. Deters.
Approval of the September 10, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on September 10, 2007. Council Member Little so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Jim Bertram of One Eleven Engineers addressed Council on behalf of White Castle
restaurants with a request of the City to sponsor a zoning text amendment that
would modify parking space requirements for certain eating establishments. He
distributed a handout to the Council that outlined the City’s current off-
street parking regulations for establishments that sell food and refreshments
for consumption on the premises or for take home food service. He stated that
their text amendment request follows the mixed use developments as suggested in
the Downtown Small Area Study recently adopted by the City. Mr. Craig Eilers,
representative for White Castle stated that this parking requirement is making
it difficult to get this building constructed as they only need half of the
parking spaces that the City’s zoning requires (30 of 60). He stated that fast
food restaurants generally need less parking. A brief discussion ensued
resulting in a general consensus of the Council to review the information given
to them by Mr. Bertram and then take action on this issue at the next regular
meeting which is November 5, 2007.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting new Building & Zoning Fee Schedule – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would adopt a new
schedule of fees for zoning and building permits. He introduced the City’s
Building Inspector Kevin Barbian who answered questions from the Council.
Council Member Behler asked how the permit increases were determined. Mr.
Barbian stated that the increases would now cover the actual costs involved and
allow the City to break even. He stated that obviously the industry is down,
but that the fees being proposed will be comparable to the fees charged by
other communities in the region. Mayor Moriconi commented that the proposed fee
schedule is in line with the staff and other expenses for this department.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi directed the city attorney to
give the ordinance a first reading. Mr. Deters read the ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2007 ––Kentucky– ––Building– Code – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi stated that the next couple of proposed ordinances are
‘housekeeping’ ordinances to keep current with the building code regulations.
Mr. Barbian advised Council that the state building codes are revised every 3-
5 years and the most recent is the 2007 update. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2007 ––Kentucky– Residential Code – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the 2007 Kentucky Residential Code. Mr. Barbian advised this is another
‘housekeeping’ ordinance which revises the 2004 code. Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance- Amending Ordinance No. 2005-O-10 Relating to Mud & Debris
on Roads and Regulating Surface Water Drainage and Sediment Control – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented a proposed ordinance relating to mud and debris
deposited on city streets and right of ways and also regulates surface water
drainage and sediment control. He stated this is a concern for the City, with
all the commercial and residential developments, it is necessary to keep the
streets and right of ways clear of mud and other debris that can be hazardous
to the citizens. Mr. Deters added that storm water and drainage issues have
also become concerns that the City needs to regulate. Council Member Brinker
asked if the City would provide notice to the builders that regulations would
be placed on these issues. Mr. Barbian assured Council that he would be sending
letters to the builders. There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment for a 4-Acre Parcel Located East
of the Terminus of ––Apple Valley– Drive – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
accept the KCPC’s recommendation to approve a map amendment (KCPC Application
Number 1889R) changing an approximate 4-acre area located approximately 500
feet east of the terminus of Apple Valley Drive from R-1EE to R-2 (PUD).
Council Member Brinker stated he met with some residents in the area of this
proposed zone change. He stated their concerns were that an adequate buffer be
imposed as a condition and that no through street be constructed. Bob Buten,
the developer who plans to add on to the Apple Valley Apartment complex stated
that he did not object to the conditions imposed by the KCPC. He stated the
other apartment buildings are fifteen years old and the additional buildings he
has planned will be as nice, or nicer that the existing buildings. There was a
brief discussion about the conditions that KCPC has imposed and which include
1) a 20-foot planting strip along the north and east sides of the site, 2)
pedestrian access be provided from the site to the community center of the
existing apartment development, 3) that all fences and walls meet the
requirements of the underlying R-2 zone, 4) that signage be prohibited on the
site, and 5) that provisions for a secondary access point be provided to the
south of the site. All was in agreement that the conditions were similar to the
concerns voiced by the residents and that no additional conditions needed to be
imposed by the City. There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-17 – Adopting Zoning Text Amendment to Add New Floodplain
Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-17 that
would accept the KCPC recommendation (1884R) to approve a zoning text amendment
deleting the current floodplain regulations and adding new floodplain
regulations. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-17, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-18 – Annexing 5106 ––Madison– Pike – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-18 that
would annex part of the territory known as 5106 Madison Pike, said property
owned by the United States Postal Service.
Mr. Deters read the Ordinance No. 2007-O-18. He commented that annexing the
back half of this parcel will bring the entire parcel into the City’s
boundaries. The front portion is currently located within the City.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-18, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-19 – Annexing ––––4545 Oliver Road–– – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-19 that
would annex 4545 Oliver Road. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-19. He
stated this is a lone parcel that is completely surrounded by the City.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-19, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Police Report – Dave Nichols, Assistant Chief
Assistant Chief Nichols stated he had nothing to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that citizens now have the opportunity to view their
property tax bills online and be able to receive a summary of property
information pertaining to ownership, payment, current charge and assessment tax
data.
Park Improvements
Mayor Moriconi also presented to Council a report from the Recreation Study
Group. He stated the Group is recommending some capital improvements to the
parks that would include shelters, playground equipment, walking trails and
basketball courts. The estimated costs and the Group’s recommendation to obtain
a bank loan are some issues the Mayor asked Council to consider and possibly
discuss at the November council meeting. Mayor Moriconi stated the City’
acquisition of ’’’’25 Peach Drive’’ has provided another access to Memorial
Park
Downtown Study
Mayor Moriconi informed Council that he met with the NKAPC staff to discuss
implementation of the Downtown Study. He stated he has been hearing from
citizens who are interested in serving on the Advisory Committee. Council
Member Franzen stated she would like to see the City adopt an ordinance to
establish a Board in order to give the Advisory Committee some teeth and
monitor the development process. Mr. Deters advised they would need to create
rules and regulations and the hierarchy of such a Board. He stated the Board
should be advisory in nature only, with the City having the final say on
issues.
Proposed Vicious Dog Ordinance
Council Member Franzen reported that she will meet with Mr. Deters to draft and
review a proposed ordinance that would impose regulations for vicious dogs and
hopefully have a draft to present to the Council at the November meeting for
their consideration.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:50 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 5, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
5, 2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance
and then called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed
K. Deters.
Approval of the October 1, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on October 1, 2007. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
by Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Kentucky Department of Veteran Affairs – Dennis Glacken
Mayor Moriconi introduced Dennis Glacken from the Kentucky Department of
Veteran Affairs. Mr. Glacken introduced several veterans – hometown heroes –
with the 275th American Legion Post. He stated these veterans, four of which
are recipients of the Purple Heart award, represented our nation in World War
II, the Korean War, the Viet Nam war and the War in Iraq. Mr. Glacken presented
the Mayor with a Certificate of Recognition for the City’s adoption and support
of the Kentucky National Guard, 940th MP Company of the Walton Armory. Mr.
Glacken introduced Mr. Alvin Duncan, Director of the Veterans Cemetery in Grant
County. Mr. Duncan announced that the new veterans’ cemetery in Grant County
will be called “Kentucky Veterans Cemetery North” is under construction with an
anticipated completion date in the Fall of 2008. He stated that all veterans
and their spouses will be eligible for free burial in this cemetery.
Proposed Ordinance Defining and Regulating the Keeping of Vicious Dogs – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading an ordinance being sponsored by
Council Member Franzen which will define vicious dogs and put guidelines on the
keeping of vicious dogs. He stated that council Members Franzen and Little have
more information to present based on the research they have done regarding
vicious dogs. Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to the Council Members for
discussion of this proposed ordinance.
A lengthy discussion ensued resulting in changes to the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Little distributed the research he found on the internet from
other cities that have adopted legislation to regulate vicious dogs, but that
legislation should be non-breed specific. He stated if a dog exhibits vicious
behavior as defined in the legislation then fines could be imposed to penalize
the dog owners. Council Member Franzen said that a dog would have to exhibit
behavior that would require it to be registered with the city as a vicious dog.
Council Member Little moved to remove the breed specific language from the
proposed ordinance, seconded by Council Member Behler. No roll call, motion
carried with all ayes.
Council went on to discuss first and second offense fines that would be imposed
on the dog owners. Council Member Franzen suggested the first offense should
require the dog to be registered as a vicious dog with the City and carry a
$500 fine. Council Member Little stated that the City of Chicago has a $10,000
fine for a second offense and it has been very successful in going after
irresponsible owners. Council Member Bushong commented that insurance coverage
for this type of injury would only be paid out for one incident. Council Member
Little stated that one of the regulations would be that the owner would have to
carry liability insurance. Chief Butler expressed concern that if the second
offense is not serious that the courts would look upon a $10,000 fine as
excessive. Mr. Deters agreed that it could be challenged in court, but that the
place to appeal the fine would be the Code Enforcement Board. Council discussed
imposing a fine “….up to $10,000” but was concerned that a variable fine amount
decided by the issuing officer may appear arbitrary. Council Member Brinker
stated he felt that $10,000 seemed extreme to him. He asked Chief Butler the
statistics on vicious dog attacks in the City. Chief Butler stated there were 3
cases reported in 2006 and 4 to date for 2007. He stated that state law
requires that dog bites be reported. Council Member Behler stated she too was
uncomfortable with the vagueness of “up to” and suggested the maximum fine be
set at $5,000.
Council Member Little suggested that after a dog has a second or third offense
that the dog would have to be removed from the City. Council Member Franzen
concurred and moved that the proposed ordinance text be amended to read that
the first offense would carry a fine of $500 and the second offense carry a
fine of $10,000 with removal of the animal from the City by the dog warden.
Roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council
Members Behler and Bushong. Motion carried 4-2.
Council Member Behler asked about the license fee and if it would cover the
City’s costs. Council Member Franzen stated the City could issue a paper
registration and a dog tag and that the ordinance could be amended if the City
finds that the actual costs are higher.
There being no further discussion by the Council, Mayor Moriconi opened the
floor for citizen comments on this proposed legislation. Taylor Priest (Dayton,
Ohio) speaking on behalf of Sarah Peed, 602 Berlander Drive, Independence –
stated he was glad to see the Council remove language that would name specific
breeds of dogs as vicious. He stated that other communities struggle with this
complex issue and he thanked the Council for setting an example for other
communities.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading
Privileges of the Floor
Cass Ruhlman, 277 Buttermilk Pike, Fort Mitchell, Ky. – representing
Congressman Geoff Davis addressed Council to inform them that Congressman Davis
provides many services including assistance with federal grants. She encouraged
them to contact her if they can be of help with anything.
Resolution No. 2007-R-18 – Deny Text Amendment for Class 7 Signs in NC Zone as
Recommended by the ––––Kenton– ––County–– Planning Commission
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-18 that would accept
the recommendation of the KCPC (Application No. 1892R) and deny a text
amendment to modify the sign regulations to allow any business to install Class
7 signage. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2007-R-18.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-18, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. No discussion. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2007-R-19 – Sponsoring a Text Amendment Relating to Off-Street
Parking Regulations
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-19 that would support
a text amendment application to the official zoning ordinance of the city
modifying parking space requirements for certain eating establishments. Mr.
Deters read Resolution No. 2007-R-19.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-19, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. No discussion. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-20 – Approving a Map Amendment for a 4-Acre Parcel Located
East of the Terminus of ––Apple Valley– Drive – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a Ordinance No. 2007-O-20 that
would accept the KCPC’s recommendation to approve a map amendment (KCPC
Application Number 1889R) changing an approximate 4-acre area located
approximately 500 feet east of the terminus of Apple Valley Drive from R-1EE to
R-2 (PUD). Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-21.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-20, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried 5-1
Ordinance No. 2007-O-21 – Adopting new Building & Zoning Fee Schedule – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
21 that would adopt a new schedule of fees for zoning and building permits. Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-21.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-21 seconded by
Council Member Franzen. No discussion. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0. Mayor Moriconi thanked the Building Inspector
for his work in researching the current rates that other communities are
charging and compiling that information to bring the City up to a uniform
schedule for the region.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-22 – Adopting 2007 ––Kentucky– ––Building– Code – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
22 that would adopt the 2007 Kentucky Building Code. Mr. Deters read Ordinance
No. 2007-O-22.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-22, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-23– Adopting 2007 ––Kentucky– Residential Code – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
23 that would adopt the 2007 Kentucky Residential Code. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2007-O-23.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-23, seconded by
Council Member Behler. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-24 - Amending Ordinance No. 2005-O-10 Relating to Mud &
Debris on Roads and Regulating Surface Water Drainage and Sediment Control –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-24 that
would amend Ordinance No. 1997-O-06 relating to mud and debris deposited on
city streets and right of ways and also regulating surface water drainage and
sediment control. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-24.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-24, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Police Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Veteran’s Dinner - Mayor Moriconi announced the Veteran’s Dinner will be held
on Sunday, November 11 at the Senior Center. The dinner will be free to all
veterans and their spouses.
Prisoner Work Program – Mayor Moriconi reported that the City has been
participating in the Kenton County Jail’s prisoner work program which provides
the City with free labor. He advised Council that if they know of an area in
the city that needs some clean up to let him know.
Christmas Walk & Tour - Mayor Moriconi announced that the City’s annual
Christmas Walk & Tour will be held on Saturday, December 1st from 7-9 pm. He
stated the event is being moved to the Towne Center area due to traffic safety
concerns in the old downtown area where it was held in past years. He stated
the Bradford Masonic Lodge will have a live Nativity scene, Santa Claus will be
at the Municipal Center and free camel rides at the Senior Center. He stated
there will be local church and school choirs and bands performing throughout
the evening at the Municipal Center, Fire Station and the Senior Center with
refreshments being served at these locations as well. He stated there will be
many family activities at the Senior Center that will include face painting and
ornament decorating for the children. He urged everyone to come out and enjoy
this event.
Occupational License Fees ordinance – Mayor Moriconi told Council that Larry
Klein, City Administrator for the City of Fort Wright will attend the December
meeting to answer any questions they may have regarding the state mandates
regarding the changes in the collection of the occupational license fees. He
advised that these mandates will require that the City amend the current
ordinance regulating these fees and that a proposed ordinance will be presented
as well at the December meeting.
Parks Information - Mayor Moriconi directed Council’s attention to the Memo in
their packets providing a summary of estimated debt service costs and revenue
projections to take out a loan for capital improvements to the parks. He asked
them to review the information and direct their questions to Terri Hudson,
Finance Director or Council Member Donna Yeager. He stated he would like to
consider taking action on this at the December meeting. He stated he would also
like to consider borrowing enough to add another structure at the Public
Services facility on Richardson Road to house their large equipment. A
discussion ensued relating to the costs for a pole barn versus a more elaborate
type structure. Council Member Bushong also asked the type of skate park
structure that was being considered. Council Member Yeager stated that the
Recreation Director, Nita Brake was still researching the various types and
would provide a more detailed report to Council by the next meeting. Mayor
Moriconi advised the City will continue to fill-in the ravine portion of
Memorial Park, which is behind the Municipal Center and will become the
location for some of the planned improvements to that Park.
Jail Update - Council Member Franzen reported that the Kenton County Fiscal
Court has recently approved funds to be expended on additional engineering
costs for the other possible site for the jail on 3-L Highway.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:06 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 3, 2007
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
3, 2007 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance
and then called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed
K. Deters.
Approval of the November 5, 2007 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on November 5, 2007. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
by Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Occupational License Fee Changes per HB 107 and HB 458 –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi introduced Larry Klein, City Administrator of Fort Wright, who
was present to explain the changes that need to be made to the City’s current
regulations of Occupational License fees which have been State mandated in
accordance with HB 107 and HB 458 and become effective July 15, 2008. Mr. Klein
stated that he was a member of the Task Force of Occupational License Fee
Administrators from across the state who discussed a wide array of rules,
forms, methods and the confusion among the taxpayers, businesses as well as the
tax preparers. He stated he held the position of Kenton County Occupational
License Inspector from 1988-1998 and is a member of the Kentucky Occupational
License Association. He stated that since the bill goes into effect July 15,
2008 he is recommending that all cities and counties that impose this tax to
adopt this by January 1, 2008 so there is less disruption and confusion to
businesses and payroll services from changing rules on payroll and net profits/
gross receipts in the middle of a tax year. He stated that a model ordinance
has been developed by the state Task Force and that a scaled down version has
been drafted for their consideration by local attorney Frank Wichmann who
represents several cities in Northern Kentucky. Mr. Klein stated that it is
unique to Northern Kentucky cities that the county collects and administers
this tax for most cities in this area so additional language giving this
authority to the Kenton County Occupational License Inspector’s office is
provided in this ordinance the City is being asked to adopt.
Mr. Klein pointed out some of the changes brought about by HB 107 and HB 458
and incorporated into the model ordinance include:
·   Uniformity in administration among cities, counties, school districts with
occupational license fees
·   Maintain local control of tax rates, caps, minimums, maximums, net/gross,
etc.
·   Make collection of this tax “business friendly”
·   Increased compliance = increased revenue
·   The use of prevalent methods
·   Avoid double taxation
·   Make model ordinances and tax forms available
He advised that late filing penalty will be mandatory across the state with an
interest rate of 12% per annum, which is the same as property taxes. He stated
that this ordinance will put more teeth in imposing liens on personal property
for non-payment of the occupational license tax. It also clarifies where a sale
occurs for the business and provides definitions of businesses and employees.
This ordinance will also provide that there will be a 5-year statute of
limitations and that a business has up to two years after a tax was due to
request a refund if paid in error. He stated the previous ordinance did not
address refunds.
After a brief question and answer session with Mr. Klein and there being no
further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Klein for attending the meeting and sharing his
knowledge of these state mandated changes. Mayor Moriconi advised Council that
a special meeting would be held on Thursday, December 6th so that this
ordinance could be presented for a second reading and adoption to meet the
January 1, 2008 deadline recommended by Mr. Klein.
Neyer Development – Power Point Presentation regarding a Revised Site Plan for
New SR17 and McCullum Road
Mayor Moriconi introduced Dan Neyer of Neyer Development who was before the
Council to present a revised site plan, based on the Downtown Study, for the
new SR17 and McCullum Road intersection.
Mr. Neyer stated that the revised plan addresses the City’s concerns that the
original plan did not adhere to the results of the Downtown Study that was
recently adopted into the City’s comprehensive plan. He stated they are
presenting this revised plan and would like input from the Council before
making an application with the Planning Commission. He introduced Development
Manager Pete Mallow. They presented a power point presentation of the revised
plan which will be a mixed use incorporating retail, office space and high
density residential. Mr. Mallow suggested that the features and benefits of
this revised plan include 1500 new office and retail jobs, $750,000 in
projected payroll taxes for the city, $175,000 in projected property taxes and
gross receipts taxes for the city and provides an attractive gateway entrance
into the City.
After the power point presentation a discussion ensued, with some Council
Members stating they were hesitant to provide Neyer input before following the
proper application process with the Planning Commission. Mr. Deters advised
that because the City Council is the final arbiter, to comment in advance of
obtaining a recommendation from the Planning Commission could give the
impression of a pre-disposition and could make it difficult to give a fair and
impartial decision. Council suggested that the revised plan be submitted to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendation to the City.
Resolution No. 2007-R-20 – Agreement with G.O.L.D. for ––––Kentucky–– Body
Armor Program
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2007-R-20 which would
authorize him to enter into an agreement with the Governor’s Office for Local
Development (G.O.L.D.) for the Kentucky Body Armor Program and to execute all
documents necessary to facilitate the project. Chief Butler advised that the
City requested this grant funding several months ago and now this is the next
step in obtaining the funds. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2007-R-20.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2007-R-20, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Police Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler presented for Council’s approval an Interlocal Agreement between
the Kenton County Sheriff, and Cities of Crescent Springs, Edgewood, Erlanger,
Fort Mitchell, Independence, Ludlow, Park Hills, Taylor Mill, Villa Hills and
Independence for participation in the Northern Kentucky Emergency Response Unit
(NKERU). Chief Butler stated that the city has participated in this SWAT
program for the past eight years and this Agreement is an updated version. He
stated he has three officers in his department that are on this team.
Council Member Bushong moved to authorize the Mayor to execute this Agreement,
seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported that the 11th Annual Christmas Walk and Tour was a huge
success with the largest attendance in recent years.
Park Improvement Discussion - Mayor Moriconi reviewed with Council a memo from
Nita Brake, Recreation Director, regarding information on the various types of
skate park structures she has been able to obtain through research. A
discussion ensued regarding the addition of a skate park, the best type of
construction materials and the concrete labor that will be involved and the
most cost effective way to save on labor. Council Member Bushong mentioned that
Kenton County employees donated the labor to install the skate park in Ludlow.
Mayor Moriconi stated that he would also like to add on to the maintenance
storage building at the Public Works facility on Richardson Road, as the
equipment should be housed to protect it from the weather, etc.
Further discussion by the Council centered on obtaining financing to achieve
the improvements needed for the Parks and Public Works facility. Mayor Moriconi
asked if Council wanted to authorize bids for loan rates of a line of credit.
Council Member Brinker suggested obtaining rate information, terms of a loan,
etc. Mr. Deters advised there may be statutory regulations that the City would
need to abide by. When asked how the City would fit a loan payment into the
budget, Mayor Moriconi suggested the City could save approximately $50,000 per
year by getting out of the trash collection business and having Rumpke bill the
property owners directly.
Council Member Franzen moved to explore financing options for improvements to
the parks and Public Works facility that would include the possibility of a
line of credit, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered
with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried
5-1.
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-08 – Re-Appointing Dave Millward to the TBNK
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-08 that would
approve his mayoral re-appointment of Dave Millward to the Telecommunications
Board of Northern Kentucky (TBNK).
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-08, seconded
by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-09 – Re-Appointing Council Member Little to the OKI
Regional Council
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-09 that would
approve his mayoral re-appointment of Council Member Little to the OKI Board of
Directors.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2007-MO-09, seconded
by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Vicious Dog Ordinance - Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the second reading
of the vicious dog ordinance would be presented at a special council meeting
that will be held on Thursday of this week, December 6th, along with the
occupational license fee ordinance.
Update on Kenton County Jail – Council Member Franzen reported that the Kenton
County Fiscal Court would meet on Tuesday, December 11th at 9 a.m. and it is
anticipated that they will vote on the jail site which is between the
Independence location and an alternate site on Mary Laidley Drive.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:43 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 6, 2007
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Thursday, December 6, 2007 at 6:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance and then called the
meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Michael
Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters. Mayor
Moriconi announced that a quorum was present for this special meeting regarding
the items posted on the Agenda.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Ordinance No. 2007-O-25 – Vicious Dog Regulations – 2nd Reading –
Discussion & Action
·   Ordinance No. 2007-O-26 – Imposing Regulations and Taxes on those engaged
in Franchises, Trades, Occupations, Professions and Other Businesses; and
Repealing Ordinance No. 1997-O-27 – 2nd Reading – Discussion & Action
Ordinance No. 2007-O-25 – Vicious Dog Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
25, an ordinance that defines vicious dogs and requires the registration
thereof in the City and regulating the keeping of same within the City. Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-25.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-25, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2007-O-26 – Imposing Regulations and Taxes on Those Engaged in
Franchises, Trades, Occupations, Professions and Other Businesses; and
Repealing Ordinance No. 1997-O-27 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2007-O-
26, an ordinance that would impose regulations and taxes on those engaged in
franchises, trades, occupations, professions and other businesses; and also
repealing Ordinance No. 1997-O-27. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2007-O-26.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2007-O-26, seconded by
Council Member Little. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn,
seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting
ended at 6:03 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2008 Minutes
January 7, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
7, 2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance
and then called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed
K. Deters.
Approval of the December 3, 2007 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on December 3, 2007. Council Member Behler so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the December 6, 2007 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on December 6, 2007. Council Member Little so moved, with second
by Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Chris Francis, 10316 McCauley Drive, Independence, stated he is the YMCA
Independence Branch Director. He addressed Council regarding plans to expand
the YMCA. He stated he has met with Mayor Moriconi to discuss a joint
collaboration with the city to establish a Youth Advisory Council, which will
be modeled after the Cincinnati YMCA program. He stated this Advisory Council
will provide reports to the City Council.
Mike Warth, 1897 Bridle Path, Independence – addressed Council regarding the
speed humps recently installed in the Ridgeway Farms subdivision. He thanked
the City for establishing this program by which citizens can petition the City
for this type of traffic control device. He stated that he felt the program was
easy to use and worked effectively.
Presentation of the Market Study Conducted as Part of the Downtown Small Area
Study
Mayor Moriconi introduced Doug Harnish of GEM Public Sector Services. He stated
that Mr. Harnish would provide an overview of the market study that was
conducted in collaboration with the Downtown Small Area Study which was
completed and presented to the Council in July 2007. He stated Mr. Harnish was
unable to attend the July meeting, therefore the report was never officially
presented to the Council, so he is here tonight to go over the results of his
study with Council.
Mr. Harnish gave a condensed overview of the market study which included the
objectives that would help the city to identify sources of current and future
demand, project future growth and evaluate current capacity to meet current and
future demands for services. He stated another objective of the study would be
to identify business opportunities for the future. He stated that the City has
the unique ability to pick and choose future developments and this study will
assist them in addressing development proposals from an informed and market
based viewpoint.
Mr. Harnish advised the study revealed that the City has seen a significant
growth rate in population over the last ten years and although 2008 will be
sluggish they will continue to see the population grow at a higher rate than
other communities in the area. He stated that people move to Independence for
lifestyle but work in other communities. He stated that since all age brackets
are growing, this growth will put pressure on the public services to keep pace
as rooftops always precede commercial demands. He stated it is estimated that
the City’s population will brow by nearly 5000 residential units between 2000
and 2011.
Mr. Harnish went on to say that Independence is not a major employment center
and currently 64¢ of every dollar earned is leaving the City. He stated that
medical and health care services are underserved with less than 6% of the
market demand being captured in 2006.
In closing, Mr. Harnish shared some of his final observations from the market
study:
·   Independence is undergoing unprecedented growth which will continue in the
near future
·   Continue to maintain much of the character and vitality of the city’s
traditional “downtown” but this could change with the relocation of KY17
·   City should direct efforts to revitalize and restore the historical section
of the Madison Pike corridor and implement a mix of land uses in the future.
·   Need to focus on the parking problem in the historical downtown area by
securing reciprocal easements for shared parking.
·   Keep in mind that revitalization, reuse and redevelopment projects are
long-term projects
·   City should plan for future growth before the growth takes the City where
it wants to go
·   Define what it is that Independence wants to be in the future.
·   Develop policies and programs to help facilitate business development and
land uses the city wants to have in the future.
Mr. Harnish said the City should think aggressively but act conservatively and
think about the long-term sustainability of all future new development.
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion. Council Member Behler asked Mr.
Harnish what type of staff member he would recommend to oversee the
implementation of the Downtown Study. Mr. Harnish commented that often two
employees, one from city administration and the other a city planner or
economic developer, would work together to recruit and enforce development
designs. Council Member Behler also asked the life span of this market study.
Mr. Harnish responded that a market study is usually good for 2-5 years, but
due to the growth rate in Independence, this study material will probably
become outdated sooner than that. Mayor Moriconi commented that he is
assembling a volunteer advisory group that will work on the implementation of
the Downtown Study which he will present at next month’s meeting. Council
Member Behler commented that the advisory group would be one component, but
feels the City needs to fund the hiring of a staff member in the next budget. A
discussion among the Council Members ensued about the hiring of a staff member
to oversee this study; suggested positions included a City Administrator, City
Planner or a Director of Economic Development. There was a consensus that the
City needed an actual employee and that funding for this position needed to be
a priority in the coming fiscal year budget.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Harnish for presenting the data in the market study.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Zoning Text Amendment relating to Off-Street
Parking – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission and approve
a zoning text amendment for off-street parking requirements for restaurants
(KCPC Application No. 1898R). Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Police Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Park Improvement Discussion –Mayor Moriconi directed Council’s attention to the
document in the Council packets provided by the Finance Director regarding loan
debt information for proposed park improvements as well as a proposed addition
to the Public Services facility on Richardson Road. He stated that it appears
that a bank line of credit would not be a viable option
Council Member Little reminded the Council that the Small Area Downtown Study
revealed that while the City has several parks that there will continue to be a
need for adequate recreational amenities as discussed on page 60 of the Study.
He stated the City needs to begin to look at improving the quality instead of
creating more parks. He stated that the Memorial Park site designated for a
skate park by the Committee has not yet been adequately compacted but that
other alternative amenities can be put in place such as basketball courts,
additional shelters and walking trails. He also mentioned needed improvements
for Staggs Park and Independence Park. A lengthy discussion ensued regarding
the various improvements that are needed to the existing parks. It was decided
to eliminate the plans for a skate park which would decrease amount of a
possible loan to $400,000 from the original $700,000. Council Member Behler
concurred with Council Member Little but stated that she felt the more pressing
priority for the City was to hire a staff member to lead the implementation of
the Downtown Study. She expressed concern about the City’s ability to fund a
new staff member as well as a new loan for Park and Public Services
improvements. Council Member Yeager agreed, but added that she still feels an
obligation to fix up the parks for the children. She stated she feels the
elimination of the proposed skate park, which reduces the park improvements
budget to only $250,000 is a compromise, as well as a loan amount the City
would be able to afford. Council Member Franzen stated she would be agreeable
to borrowing the lesser amount of $400,000. As Council discussed a lesser
amount it was suggested by an audience member to fund the improvements out of
the annual budget without borrowing money. Mayor Moriconi commented that he
feels the City’s revenues will be increasing due to the future commercial
growth on the horizon. He stated that he is committed to hiring a City
Administrator or Economic Development Director as well as making improvements
to the City’s parks and that he feels there are various options available to do
both. Council Member Brinker wondered if it would even be possible to set aside
funds in future budgets when you have the possibility of administrations
changing ever other year. Council Member Behler stressed that she was not
against park improvements, just against obtaining a loan at this time, when
additional staff is needed.
Mayor Moriconi urged the Council to take some sort of action since this
proposal was first presented last fall and he felt it was time to decide if the
City would or would not proceed in obtaining a loan to finance these
improvements. Further discussion by Council centered on having more accurate
numbers for each project before deciding on obtaining a loan. Mr. Deters
advised that Council should get bids before deciding to take out a loan so
there is a more detailed cost analysis. Final decision by the Council was to
get actual cost estimates for one Public Works building, 2 full basketball
courts, 2 half basketball courts, 2 play ground equipment, 2 shelters and 2
hiking trails.
Presentation of 2006/07 Audit
Mayor Moriconi presented the 2006/07 annual audit to the Council and stated
they should direct any questions about the audit to Finance Director, Teresa
Hudson or the City Clerk.
Sidewalk Construction
Council Member Brinker asked about the next sidewalk project along Madison
Pike. Mayor Moriconi reported that the next phase will begin at US Bank at the
intersection of Madison Pike and McCullum Road and head north to Independence
Station Road, cross the street and head south along Madison Pike and end at Big
Bone Turnpike. He stated that the City is in the process of obtaining easements
and hopes to put the project out to bid in a couple months.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:37 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
January 21, 2008
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, January 21, 2008 at 6:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Ordinance No. 2008-O-01 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment relating to
Off-Street Parking Regulations – 2nd Reading – Discussion & Action
·   Executive Session in accordance with KRS 61.810 (c) to discuss litigation
issues, specifically Cobble v City
Ordinance No. 2008-O-01 – Zoning Text Amendment – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
01, an ordinance that accepts the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning
Commission and approves a zoning text amendment regulating off-street parking.
. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2008-O-01.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-01, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Executive Session
There being no further regular business to discuss, Mayor Moriconi entertained
a motion to enter into an Executive Session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810
(c) to discuss pending litigation on a sewer related issue, specifically Cobble
v City. Council Member Bushong so moved, seconded by Council Member Franzen
Motion carried with all ayes. At 6:03 p.m. Council retired to the Executive
Session room.
At 6:55 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of
the Council meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all
ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and the
meeting ended at 6:56 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 4, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
4, 2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance
and Council Member Bushong gave the invocation. Mayor Moriconi called the
meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Michael
Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the January 7, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on January 7, 2008. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the January 21, 2008 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on January 21, 2008. Council Member Little so moved, with second
by Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Larry Butler, 1132 Madison Pike, Independence – Mayor Moriconi introduced Larry
Butler, who is a teacher and FFA adviser at Simon Kenton High School. Mr.
Butler informed Council that, beginning this summer, the school will hold a
Farmers’ Market in the front parking lot of the school. He stated it will
operate every Saturday from 8:30 a.m. until 2 p.m. from April 26th through
November 1st. He distributed a hand-out which provided information on the
season rules, space assignment, fee schedule, etc. Mr. Butler advised that all
proceeds from the Market would benefit the school and that they welcome
participation from the community.
Jim Niece, 3602 Mills Road, Independence – Mr. Niece addressed Council
regarding a zoning violation notice he received about his RV (recreational
vehicle) that he has parked in his driveway. He stated city staff has informed
him that he has to move the RV around to the rear of his property. He stated he
is unable to do this due to the size of the RV. He stated he has lived here for
twenty-four years and is upset he is being asked to move the RV. He stated he
feels the City is against RV owners.
Mr. Niece’s comments commenced a lengthy discussion among the Council members
regarding the current ordinance that regulates the parking and storing of RV’s.
Council Member Little advised that when the ordinance was amended in 2006 and
again in 2007 that it actually relaxed the old ordinance by increasing the
allowable weight and length of trucks, RV’s, trailers, etc. Mayor Moriconi
commented that the City has received numerous anonymous complaints in recent
years that have prompted a more pro-active approach in the enforcement of this
ordinance, so we now find that we are in a no-win situation. He suggested that
the City either continue to enforce the ordinance or rescind it and allow the
residents to park these vehicles anywhere they want on their property. He
stated he feels that while Mr. Niece’s situation is unique, for the majority of
the City the ordinance is relevant. Council Member Franzen stated that the
current ordinance provides that the property owner can make application with
the Board of Adjustments for a conditional use. Council Member Yeager commented
that the application fee is $500, which many people cannot afford to pay. Mr.
Deters commented that Council could review the current ordinance to consider
amendments, but the last amendment by Council was very thorough. Council
Members Little and Franzen, who worked on the amendments to the current
ordinance explained that allowing or not allowing RV’s, based on lot size, etc.
is not legal. Council Members Bushong and Brinker commented they would like to
take another look at the ordinance for possible revisions. Council Member
Little stated he would locate the information they used last year when the last
amendments were made and get it to Council Members Bushong and Brinker.
Resolution No. 2008-R-01 – Amending Job Description for Crew Leader Position
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2008-R-01 amending the job
description for the Public Services Department Crew Leader position. Mr. Deters
read Resolution No. 2008-R-01. A brief discussion ensued regarding the general
supervisor of this position and amendments were noted. Council Member Little
moved to approve the amendments noted in the job description, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2008-R-01, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-01 – Establishing Strategic Action Committee for
Downtown Area Study
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-01 that would
establish the Community Small Area Study Strategic Action Committee. He thanked
Mr. Keith Logsdon of the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission for
providing his input for this municipal order. Council Member Little commented
that he feels that adopting this municipal order is a positive step in taking
action on the recommendations in the Downtown Small Area Study, so that it
doesn’t become another Study that will just sit on the shelf without being
implemented. Mr. Deters read Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-01.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-01, seconded
by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-02 – Re-Appointment of Chris Grubbs to Senior Board
of Directors
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-02 that would
re-appoint Mr. Chris Grubbs to the Senior Board of Directors.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-02, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-03 – Re-Appointment of Jeremy Deters to Senior
Board of Directors
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-03 that would
re-appoint Mr. Jeremy Deters to the Senior Board of Directors.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-03, seconded
by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-04 – Appoint Tim Gold to Senior Board of Directors
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-04 that would
appoint Mr. Tim Gold to the Senior Board of Directors.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-04, seconded
by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-05 – Appoint Max Hughes to Senior Board of
Directors
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-05 that would
appoint Mr. Max Hughes to the Senior Board of Directors.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-05, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Police Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report, but advised that he would
need Council to call an Executive Session to discuss pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Update on Memorial Park Improvement – Mayor Moriconi reported that he had a
meeting with the city engineer regarding improvements to be made to an
approximate one acre section of Memorial Park. He stated the city engineer will
provide a cost estimate for two full and one half basketball courts, twenty
parking spaces, walking trails and an access road onto Peach Drive at their
next meeting with him in March. He stated he feels these improvements will be a
good utilization of the space. Council Member Yeager submitted a letter from
Debbie Daniels, who is requesting that the City consider adding tennis courts
to Memorial Park which would benefit the students at Simon Kenton High School
who must travel outside of the city since the high school does not have their
own tennis court facilities.
Executive Session
There being no further business for the regular meeting of Council, at 7:47
p.m. Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to move into an executive session. Mr.
Deters stated the executive session would be pursuant to KRS 61.810 1(c) to
discuss pending litigation, specifically Cobble v City. Council Member Franzen
so moved, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:25 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to reconvene the regular session of
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:26 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 3, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 3,
2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance. Reverend
Lisa May, Pastor of Faith Community United Methodist Church gave the
invocation. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom
Brinker, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the February 4, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on February 4, 2008. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
by Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Request for City to Sponsor a Zoning Text Amendment
Mike Martinelli of Triumph Energy and representing the Sunoco service station
at the intersection of Turkeyfoot Rd and Independence Station Road addressed
the Council with a request for the City to sponsor a zoning text amendment that
would add service stations to the list of conditional uses within the R-1D
zone. He stated that with the renovation of Turkeyfoot Road, they would like to
give an updated look to the Sunoco station at this intersection, by adding
another gas dispenser and new canopy. He stated that the current zoning does
not allow any improvements because the business is a non-conforming use in this
zone. A brief discussion ensued regarding the current zone and that the
proposed text amendment for a conditional use would mean that the request would
go before the Board of Adjustment for approval or disapproval.
Resolution No. 2008-R-02 – Support of Zoning Text Amendment Application
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2008-R-02 that
would support the application for the text amendment as requested by Mr.
Martinelli, seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment for the ––––Independence–
––Village––KCPC Application No. 1904R – 1st Reading
Presenting the revised development plan for the Ashley Commercial Group was Jim
Bertram of One Eleven Developers and legal counsel Tim Theissen. They
distributed the plan revisions report to the Mayor and Council Members which
outlined the changes to the original approved plan which increased the open
space from 5 acres to 9.8 acres and the residential dwellings from 102 to 108.
A lengthy discussion ensued with questions from the Council regarding lot sizes
and the number of signs for each commercial lot. Mr. Bertram stated that each
lot needed two signs so there would be better traffic visibility, but that it
would be possible that some businesses will only require one sign. Council
Member Little expressed concern that the residential section of this PUD plan
would not materialize. Mr. Bill Kreutzjans of Ashley Construction stated that
while they could not guarantee the speed at which the residential units would
be built they were projecting three years. Council Member Behler stated she was
concerned that they would return in the future to request for more commercial
lots. Mr. Theissen stated that they couldn’t provide a timetable for the
development, but explained that a PUD development must have a section that
includes residential. Mr. Bertram stated that if they attempted to change the
PUD status they would have to get approval from the adjoining residential
property owners. Mr. Theissen also stated that a number of development
contracts have fallen through since the original development plan was approved
in 2004, mainly because the numbers didn’t work, both financially and
development-wise. Council discussed installing a buffer now so as to appease
the residents on Walnut Hall Drive.
In closing the discussion, the Council Members agreed to impose two more
conditions, along with three conditions recommended by the Kenton County
Planning Commission, and would be subject to the development plan being
revised. The two conditions imposed by the City will include the following:
·   Condition 4 – Ten Percent (10%) of the residential development is to be
completed within two years from the adoption of this ordinance
·   Condition 5 - A buffer zone completed before a Certificate of Occupancy can
be issued on the north side of the development
Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance, to approve a map amendment for the
Independence Village, KCPC Application No. 1904R, a first reading including
text to add the above referenced conditions number 4 & 5.
Police Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler thanked all the volunteers and businesses that supported the
annual Women’s Wellness Fair.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report, but would need to request
an executive session to discuss pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Memorial Park Development Update - Mayor Moriconi informed Council that the
city engineer was preparing a design and cost estimate for improvements to
Memorial Park which would include an access road off of Peach Drive, two full
and one half basketball courts, a 20-space parking lot, shelter building and
walking trail system. Chief Butler commented that the next step will be to
obtain financing for the project. He stated that in working on next year’s
budget the staff would need direction from Council regarding funds to support
this project. A brief discussion ensued regarding how much of the labor could
be provided by the Public Services employees and/or volunteers, installing a
buffer along the adjoining properties on the south side of Peach Drive and
funding the project, i.e. take out a loan or use reserve account. Council also
discussed breaking up the project into several alternate bids, so the
improvements could be done in phases based on the costs and the City’s ability
to fund each separately, if necessary. Mr. Deters advised Council that they
always have the right to reject any and all bids received and that bidders know
that the award of the bid is contingent on the city obtaining financing of the
project.
Council Member Bushong moved to begin the bid process for the Memorial Park
improvements, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
Update on Downtown Study Advisory Committee
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the kickoff, informational meeting for the
Downtown Study Advisory Committee will be on Tuesday, March 18, 2008 at 6:00
p.m. in the Council Chambers. He stated the following people have volunteered
to serve on the committee: Chris Reinersman, Jake Stremmel, Donna Brautigan,
Paul Metzger, Rodney Crice, Mackey McNeill and Mike Warth. He thanked everyone
for their willingness to serve on this committee.
Discussion Regarding the Hiring of a City Planner (Economic Development
Director or City Administrator)
Mayor Moriconi asked Council if they had any questions regarding the position
of City Planner. Council Member Behler commented that she feels that Council
needs to decide which position is really needed. Council Member Franzen stated
she fears the need for an Economic Developer Director may fizzle out over time
and believes the city would be better off hiring a City Administrator. These
comments prompted an exchange of ideas among the Council regarding the best
position to be filled. Council Member Franzen stated she hoped to get a City
Administrator that would also be able to perform the duties of a Planner/
Economic Development Director as needed. Council Member Behler commented that
she felt an Economic Development Director could generate much needed revenue
for the City. She stated that while she also believes the City needs an
Administrator as well, she does not believe the City can afford both positions
at this time. She also is concerned that the City will expect too much from
someone that would take the City Administrator position. Council Member Yeager
commented that she likes the idea of an Economic Development Director but
believes that the current City Administrator job description includes some
development director duties. She stated she would like to review the current
City Administrator job description. She also suggested a college intern could
provide some assistance to a City Administrator. Council Member Little
suggested that a City Administrator could contract out Planning and Economic
Development jobs. Council Member Bushong stated the City could hire consultants
for planning needs, but that the City needs to move forward so we can begin the
search to fill the position. Council Member Behler stated that she does not
believe the City can afford to hire a City Administrator and contract out
planning and economic development services as well.
Mayor Moriconi suggested creating the position of Economic Development Director
just to get it on the books. Council Member Brinker moved to create a job
description for Economic Development Director. Mayor Moriconi asked if any of
the Council Members provided feedback to the City Clerk on the job description
she provide for the position. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Bushong
seconded the motion made by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Moriconi encouraged Council to provide their input on the job description
as soon as possible so that it would be ready for the April 7th council
meeting.
Meeting to Discuss Zoning Ordinance that Regulates Recreation Vehicles
Mayor Moriconi reported that three members of the Council will be meeting with
the Zoning Administrator and the City Attorney on Monday, March 10th at 6:00
p.m. to discuss the current ordinance regulating recreational vehicles. He
stated that they will review the current regulations and discuss ideas for
possible revisions. Mayor Moriconi stated the public is invited to attend.
Announcement – Easter Egg Hunt
Mayor Moriconi announced that the annual Easter Egg Hunt is scheduled for
Saturday, March 15 at noon at Memorial Park.
Executive Session
There being no further business for the regular meeting of Council, at 8:27
p.m. Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to move into an executive session. Mr.
Deters stated the executive session would be pursuant to KRS 61.810 1(c) to
discuss pending litigation, specifically Cobble v City. Council Member Bushong
so moved, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 9:10 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to reconvene the regular session of
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Cobble v City
Council Member Franzen moved to direct the City Attorney not to make any offer
of settlement until after the Judge ruled on the pending issues in the Cobble v
City lawsuit, seconded by Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:11 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 7, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 7,
2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council
Member Jim Bushong gave the invocation. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the March 3, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on March 3, 2008. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Pete Mallow, Director of Land Development for Neyer Properties, addressed
Council to inform them that his company would be re-applying for a map
amendment for the property located at the intersection of McCullum Road and the
new section of SR17. He stated that the last application to the Kenton County
Planning Commission was tabled. He stated the deadline for the KCPC’s May 1st
meeting is this Thursday and he asked that the city sign the application. Mayor
Moriconi advised Council that it is a formality for the City to sign the
application, as is required by the Planning Commission and told Mr. Mallow he
would sign off on the application.
Resolution No. 2008-R-03 – MRA Cooperative Agreement
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2008-R-03 which would
approve the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program contract with the State
Transportation Cabinet for the 2008-2009 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2008-R-03.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2008-R-03, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2008-R-04 – Madison Pike Drainage Structure Replacement
Agreement with KDOT
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2008-R-04 that would
authorize him to enter into an agreement with the Kentucky Transportation
Cabinet for the Madison Pike curb drainage structure replacement. He advised
that in conjunction with the sidewalk repair project along Madison Pike between
McCullum Pike and Independence Station Road it will be necessary to replace
some curb drainage. He stated that since Madison Pike is a state maintained
road the City approached them about funding the drainage structures for that
portion of the total sidewalk project. The state has agreed to reimburse the
City a maximum of $14,400.00. Mr. Deters Read Resolution No. 2008-R-04.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2008-R-04, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Amended Lease Agreement with Senior Center Board of Directors
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed amended lease agreement between
the City and the Independence Senior and Community Center. He advised that the
proposed changes are in bold text. Chairman of the Senior Center Board of
Directors, Dave Millward addressed Council regarding the amendments to the
agreement. He stated that the current lease agreement was written as if the
Board was a self sustaining organization that would require them to have their
own liability insurance, etc., when in actuality the City provides the
liability insurance and pays the utilities. He also stated that this lease will
specify the hours and days that the Center is leased to the Board and would
also allow the Board to sub-lease the Center during those specified hours to
others as a way to generate revenue for Senior programming.
Council Member Bushong asked who would manage the Center outside of the
specified hours of operation by the Board and who would receive the fees
generated. Mayor Moriconi advised that Nita Brake would oversee the operation
of the building. He also advised that the City has always subsidized the
expenses association with the operation of the Center.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt the amended lease agreement for the
Independence Senior and Community Center, seconded by Council Member Behler.
Roll was called and answered with five ayes, with Council Member Yeager
recusing herself from voting. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-02 – Approving a Map Amendment for the ––––Independence–
––Village––KCPC Application No. 1904R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2008-O-
02 that would accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning
Commission, Application No. 1904R, and approve the amended Stage I development
plan for an approximate 27 acre area located along the north and south sides of
Centennial Boulevard, east of Madison Pike and is subject to certain
conditions. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2008-O-02.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-02, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Behler. Motion carried 5-1.
Police Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Review Bids Received for Memorial Park Development of Basketball Complex -
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the bid results for the proposed Basketball
Complex project in Memorial Park. He stated that the City received five bids
that provides for a base bid and four alternate projects, those being a
driveway and parking lot, half basketball courts, walkway and steps to the
Municipal Center and a walking trail in the park. Mayor Moriconi reported that
the City Engineer has advised that he considers the bid prices to be excellent.
He stated that Council could elect to proceed with this project or postpone it
until a decision was made on funding it. A brief discussion ensued regarding
ways to fund this project. Suggestions included taking out a low interest rate
loan from the Kentucky League of Cities and opting to do the project in stages
and funding it from the annual budget. The consensus of Council was to delay
taking action on these bids until the May meeting when the Mayor will roll out
the budget for the 2008/2009 fiscal year to see if funds would be available.
Discussion of Job Description for City Administrator Position
Council Member Franzen asked Mayor Moriconi when he would advertise to fill the
position of City Administrator. Mayor Moriconi stated that the job description
would need to be amended. Council Member Brinker suggested waiting until the
May meeting to see if the budget would absorb the funding of this position.
Council Member Behler stated she reviewed the current job description for the
City Administrator position and included language that would require the
position to plan and coordinate economic/business development initiatives for
the City. Council reviewed the proposed changes.
Resolution No. 2008-R-05 – Amending Job Description for City Administrator
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution 2008-R-05 adopting the revised
job description for the City Administrator position, seconded by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Council Member Behler moved to proceed with placing a classified ad to accept
applications for the City Administration position, seconded by Council Member
Brinker. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried 5-1.
Council Member Behler commented that if the 2008/09 budget doesn’t look like it
will be able to absorb the expense of hiring a City Administrator, then she
moved to pursue the hiring of a part time economic developer. Council Member
Little seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Miscellaneous Acknowledgement
Mayor Moriconi acknowledged the work of the Public Services Department
personnel who recently picked up forty-six bags of trash and eleven tires in
cleaning up the city’s right of ways.
Discussion Regarding the RV Regulations
Council Member Brinker resumed the discussion from previous meetings regarding
the possibility of making some revisions to the current regulations for the
parking and storing of recreational vehicles. He stated he feels there is
enough support to make some changes. Council Member Yeager suggested adding
language that would give city staff the discretion to waive the current
regulation if a property owner’s land has topography conditions that would
warrant the waiver. She stated that she felt there would not be many owners
that would have special conditions to warrant a waiver, but the staff would
have this available to them if necessary.
Council also discussed waiving the $500 Board of Adjustment fee for RV owners
that would apply to the Board for a variance and conditional use. Council
Member Franzen expressed reservations about waiving this BOA fee for some and
not others. She stated that this could have a snowball effect with everyone.
She also expressed concern that waiving the fee would then have to be
subsidized in the general budget. Council Member Yeager suggested this could be
avoided if the applicant was piggybacked onto another BOA meeting schedule.
Some council members debated the fairness of this suggestion.
Council Member Behler made a motion to add language changes to the current
ordinance that would permit staff members the discretion to waive the RV
regulations if a property owners’ land had topography conditions that would
warrant a waiver and that the amended ordinance be presented at the May
meeting. Council Member Brinker seconded the motion. Roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Franzen. Motion
carried 5-1.
Rumpke and Trash Assessment
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that he would be meeting with a Rumpke
representative on Monday to discuss the trash billing and assessment charges
and would give them an update after that meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:43 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 5, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 7,
2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council
Member Jim Bushong gave the invocation. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the April 7, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on April 7, 2008. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Trash Assessment Rate
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance to adopt an assessment
rate for the curbside collection and removal of solid waste. He advised council
that the current contract with Rumpke would expire on June 30, 2008 and that
the city could opt to continue the contract for the next two-year extension. He
stated that he met with a Rumpke representative to discuss Council’s suggestion
that Rumpke directly bill the residents. He advised that Rumpke is willing to
bill directly, but for a higher price than the next two-year extension rate. He
stated the other option was to keep the assessment on the city tax bill and
charge an administration fee or bid the contract out again. Mayor Moriconi
stated that due to the significant increase in fuel costs that any new bids
received would come in much higher than the rates that Rumpke is offering to
renew the current contract regardless of whether the city or Rumpke does the
billing. He stated that Rumpke would bill the residents on a quarterly basis.
A discussion ensued relating to the problem of assessing the trash on the
annual property tax bill and how delinquent bills result in the city paying out
more for the trash pick up than is being received in revenues. Council Member
Little stated that a vast majority of the delinquencies are due to property
foreclosures and bankruptcies which will be recouped in the future, but are
causing an imbalance in this source of revenue which should equal the
expenditure in the budget.
Council Member Bushong moved to renew the current contract with Rumpke at the
rate of $132.00 per year with the residents being billed directly by Rumpke,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Don Nienabor, 66 McCullum Road, expressed
concern that if Rumpke discontinued service to a resident do to non-payment of
the quarterly bill, then who would pick up the trash. Mayor Moriconi stated
that if a property becomes littered with trash then it would become a city
property maintenance/code enforcement issue. Rose Hofstetter, 146 McCullum
asked if the residents would be permitted to choose a different waste hauler,
such as Bavarian. The City Clerk responded by saying that Rumpke would be
awarded an exclusive franchise for service to all residential properties,
thereby prohibiting another carrier to service those properties.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Map Amendment for a Stage I Development Plan in
the ––Independence– ––Village– – KCPC Application No. 1918R (White Castle
Restaurant – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve an amended Stage I development plan, submitted by White Castle
Kentucky, LLC, for an
approximate two-acre area located along the east side of new KY17,
approximately 900 feet north of Harris Pike and is part of the Independence
Village development. Mr. Dick Hauber, representative for White Castle stated
the parcel they will purchase is 2.3 acres, but they will not need the entire
area for the restaurant, so they will be splitting the lot. Also he advised
council that they need to have a closing on the property transfer by the end of
May which is before the council’s next regular meeting, so he asked council if
they would be willing to have a special meeting sometime in May so that a
second reading and adoption of the ordinance could be held. Council agreed to
hold a special meeting on Tuesday, May 13, 2008 at 6:30. Mr. Deters gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Accept Zoning Text Amendment Recommendation No. 1916R from KCPC that would
Disapprove Adding Service Stations as a Conditional Use in R1-D Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the KCPC Statement of Recommendation for a
zoning text amendment application that the sponsored on behalf of the Sunoco
station at the intersection of Turkeyfoot and Independence Station Roads. He
stated that the Planning Commission has recommended disapproval of the proposed
text that would add service stations, with certain restrictions, to the list of
conditional uses within the R-1D zone, citing that service stations are not an
essential use in that zone and that they felt it was an unreasonable attempt to
circumvent the map amendment process. Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld
commented that advised council that Sunoco representatives have decided to not
pursue this text amendment by asking the Council to override the KCPC
recommendation. She stated that Sunoco has decided to keep the current
footprint of the store, but will not add a new gas pump or expand the building.
She stated they have advised her they will focus on updating the facade of the
building.
Council Member Franzen moved to accept the recommendation of the KCPC regarding
the zoning text application number 1916R, seconded by Council Member Behler.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Amended 2007/08 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend the 2007/08 budget. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a 2008/09 Fiscal Year Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt a budget for the 2008/09 fiscal year. In his prepared budget
message he stated that despite rising health care, fuel costs and flat revenues
that he was presenting a balanced budget which will include funds to hire the
City Administrator which Council requested. He stated that $70,000 has also
been allocated to be put back into the reserve account. Mayor Moriconi
indicated that the revenue projections in this budget are based on the adoption
of a compensating tax rate later this summer. Mr. Deters gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Creating the Position of Director of Economic Development
& Planning – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would create the position of Director of Economic Development & Planning.
A brief discussion ensued as to whether this job description was for a part-
time or full-time position. Mayor Moriconi advised that the proposed Pay Plan
was a wide pay range to accommodate either part or full time. Mr. Deters
advised that the job function and duties will be the same regardless of the
number of hours the position works. There being no further discussion Mr.
Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Pay & Classification Plan for 2008/09 Fiscal
Year – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will
adopt a Pay and Classification Plan for the 2008/09 fiscal year. Mr. Deters
read the proposed ordinance.
Police Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler reported that Officer Hobart Strange, for the second consecutive
year, has received Outstanding Student Resource Officer (SRO) of the Year.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated he did not have anything to report.
Discussion Regarding the RV (recreational vehicle) Ordinance
Council Member Brinker asked about the status of a zoning text amendment
application regarding the regulations for the parking and storage of
recreational vehicles. Mr. Deters stated there was some confusion at the last
meeting when Council directed him to prepare an ordinance with the text
revisions they had discussed. He went on to advise Council that all zoning text
amendments have to go through the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation back to the City before the City can proceed with making any
changes. Mr. Deters stated that he is of the opinion that the City will get a
negative response from the Planning Commission for the text changes the City is
considering. Mr. Brinker suggested that the City allow a side yard setback when
a property owner cannot get the RV in the rear yard. Zoning Administrator,
Annie Wuestefeld commented that the language Council Member Brinker is
suggesting is already in the zoning text and is considered a conditional use
thereby requiring the property owner to make an application to the Board of
Adjustments for approval. Council Member Little commented that therein lies the
concern, which is the $500.00 application fee to the Board of Adjustment. He
stated that Mr. Deters has recommended to this Council that it is not possible
to give relief from this fee to some and not others. In closing this
discussion, Council Member Brinker commented that he wanted to try to help the
property owners that had extenuating reasons why they couldn’t comply with the
current regulations, but that sometimes the City cannot make changes if the
changes won’t be fair to all.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 13, 2008
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Tuesday, May 13, 2008 at 6:30 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409
Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Ordinance No. 2008-O-03 – Adopting a Map Amendment for Stage I Development
Plan in the Independence Village – KCPC Application Number 1918R (White Castle)
– 2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2008-O-04 – Amending the 2007/08 Budget – 2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2008-O-05 – Creating the Position of Director of Economic
Development & Planning – 2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2008-O-06 – Adopting a Pay & Classification Plan – 2nd
Reading
·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
·   Adjournment
Ordinance No. 2008-O-03 - Adopting a Map Amendment for Stage I Development Plan
in the Independence Village – KCPC Application Number 1918R (White Castle) –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
03, an ordinance that accepts the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning
Commission and approves a map amendment, in the Independence Village and
submitted by White Castle Kentucky, LLC for an approximate 2-acre site located
along the east side of new SR 17, approximately 900 feet north of Harris Pike.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2008-O-03.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-03, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-04 - Amending the 2007/08 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
04, an ordinance that approves an amended 2007/08 city budget. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2008-O-04.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-04, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-05 - Creating the Position of Director of Economic
Development & Planning – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
05, an ordinance creating the position of Director of Economic Development and
Planning. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2008-O-05.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-05, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-06 - Adopting a Pay & Classification Plan – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
06, an ordinance enacting a personnel and pay classification plan pursuant to
KRS 83A.070(3). Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2008-O-06.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-06, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and the
meeting ended at 6:40 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 2, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 2,
2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council
Member Jim Bushong gave the invocation. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the May 5, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on May 5, 2008. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the May 13, 2008 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on May 15, 2008. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Don Nienabor, 66 McCullum Road, Independence – stated he would like to address
Council during the discussion of the Neyer Development.
Steven McGuire, 10667 Sinclair Drive, Independence – addressed the Council
regarding a drainage issue on his property. He stated he has lived at the
property for one year, presented photos to the Council and stated that his sump
pump runs constantly. Mr. Deters advised that since the house was built in
accordance with subdivision regulations, that this water runoff from his
neighbor’s property would be a civil matter. He suggested that Mr. McGuire meet
with the city’s Building Inspector to confirm that it was built according to
the plans.
Charles Deters, Independence Towne Center – stated he would like to address the
Council during the discussion of the Neyer Development.
Neyer Development – Proposed Ordinance Relating to Zone Change & Development
Plan
Mayor Moriconi submitted to Council the Kenton County Planning Commission’s
Statement of Recommendation to disapprove Neyer Properties, Inc. proposal for a
map amendment for an approximate 24.4 acre area located along the south side of
McCullum Pike, at its intersection with the new KY 17 from R-1C to NSC. He
stated that the City has a ninety day window to take action on this
recommendation. He advised the City could accept the recommendation to
disapprove this proposed zone change or can override the recommendation and go
ahead and approve the plan. A brief discussion ensued. Council Members Little
and Franzen expressed some concern that this recent proposed development plan
did not include the development of the north side of the intersection. They
stated they did not feel comfortable approving this zone change since it does
not comply with the recent Downtown Study adopted by the City and does not
include a development plan for the north side.
Council Member Behler moved to accept the recommendation of the Kenton County
Planning Commission to disapprove the map amendment, seconded by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to citizens who wanted to address the Council
on the Neyer Properties development plans.
Don Nienabor, 66 McCullum Road, Independence – commented that there is an old
cemetery on the north side and may be the reason Neyer did not provide a
development plan for that area. He stated they will have to deal with the
cemetery issue first. Mr. Nienabor also stated that he does not feel the
intersection will be able to handle the additional traffic that will be
generated by a shopping center. He also expressed concern that the development
plan did not include a retention pond and fears flooding will occur without it.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the development plan rendering that he has
includes a retention lake.
Charles Deters, Independence Towne Center – addressed Council regarding the
proposed commercial development on the new section of KY 17 and along the south
side of McCullum Pike by Neyer Properties, Inc. Mr. Deters provided a history
of the 250-acre development plan of the Towne Center which included land
donated for the construction of a fire department, city building and city park.
He stated that he believes the City needs good planning and that the Downtown
Study should be considered in the planning process when new proposals are
submitted, but he is concerned that the City will forget about the current
commercial property owners. He urged Council to make the future developers do
the appropriate planning.
Lawn/Park Maintenance – Award Bid
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received for the
lawn and park maintenance. He stated that a total of three bids were received
from Malco Services, Merkle Lawn Care and HHA Property Management. He stated
the City is currently in contract with Malco Services and the contract will
expire on June 30, 2008. Council reviewed the breakdown of the bid.
Council Member Yeager moved to award the lawn and park maintenance contract to
Malco Services, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Cox Road Turn Lane Construction Project – Award Bid
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received for the
Cox Road Turn Lane Project. He stated the City received five bids from the
following companies: JPS Construction, Inc. (low bid at $101,286.50), Paul
Michels & Sons, Len Riegler Blacktop, Eaton Asphalt Paving Co., and Barrett
Paving Company and that the City Engineer is recommending that the contract be
awarded to JPS Construction.
Council Member Little asked if the City would be receiving grant money for this
project. Mayor Moriconi advised that the state has agreed to contribute $40,000
and the developer of the Pembroke Subdivision, located at that intersection,
will be contributing $30,000.
Council Member Franzen moved to award the bid to the low bidder, JPS
Construction in the amount of $101,286.50, seconded by Council Member Yeager.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Interlocal Agreement with Kenton County for Collection of Occupational License
Fees
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Interlocal Agreement for the collection
of the City’s occupational taxes and related license fees. He stated this was
submitted by the County to the Mayor’s Group. He stated the county officials
advised the need to increase their collection fee to the cities from 1% to 2%
in order to cover the actual costs to provide this service to the participating
cities. This increase would necessitate that the current agreement be amended.
He stated that this fee increase will be a $20,000 hit to the budget.
Council Member Little moved to authorize Mayor Moriconi to enter into the
Interlocal Agreement for the collection of the City’s occupational taxes and
related fees, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered
with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried
5-1.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-07 – Adopting the 2008/09 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
07 adopting a budget for the 2008/09 fiscal year. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No.
2008-O-07 a second reading. Mayor Moriconi commented that this is a no frills
budget. There being no discussion, Council Member Franzen moved to adopt
Ordinance No. 2008-O-07, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Report – Shawn Butler
Chief Butler announced the July 4th Celebration this year will be held on
Friday and Saturday, July 4th & 5th.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report, but requested the need
for an executive session to discuss pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Richardson Road Bridge - Mayor Moriconi directed the Council’s attention to the
letter in their packet from the state Transportation Cabinet advising that the
minimum load posting for the Old Richardson Road Bridge should be at 3 tons. He
stated that the state is also recommending that the bridge be closed and
barricaded to traffic given that there is an alternate access for motorist
using that bridge. He stated the City has changed the load posting from 8 ton
to 3 ton as recommended by the state but feels the City should consider closing
this bridge as well. He stated the City would need to get consent to close the
bridge from the property owners that would be affected by the closing. A brief
discussion ensued regarding the possibility of getting a police order to close
it right away until consents could be obtained. Also discussed was the
intersection of old SR17 and Old Richardson Road and the safety issued there
when making a right turn onto old SR17. Chief Butler stated he would look into
getting a police order to close the bridge immediately He commented that if the
residents don’t provide consent to close the bridge that the City would then
have to go through circuit court to get a judge’s ruling to close it, which
could take months. Council decided to provide written notice to the residents
right away and request they provide the City consent to close the bridge.
Re-Naming of old SR17 - Mayor Moriconi reported that the State has approached
him about renaming the old section of SR17 “Business 17”.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Behler announced the Northern Kentucky Health Department would
be holding a “Growing Livable Communities” workshop at Simon Kenton High School
on June 12 and 13, 2008. She stated this will be a good program to attend for
those interested in the Downtown Study. She urged everyone to attend and stated
that the first 100 registrants will attend for free.
Executive Session
There being no further business for the regular meeting of Council, at 7:47
p.m. Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to move into an executive session. Mr.
Deters stated the executive session would be pursuant to KRS 61.810 1(c) to
discuss pending litigation regarding the sewers. Council Member Bushong so
moved seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:17 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular session of
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:17 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 4, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 4,
2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor Christian
J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council
Member Jim Bushong gave the invocation. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the June 2, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on June 2, 2008. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Executive Session
At 7:05 pm Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion to move into an executive
session. Mr. Deters stated the executive session would be pursuant to KRS
61.810 1(c) and (f) to discuss pending litigation regarding the sewers and to
discuss a personnel issue. Council Member Bushong so moved seconded by Council
Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:20 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to reconvene the regular session of
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-06 – Appointment of City Administrator
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-06 that would
approve his appointment of Dan Groth to the position of City Administrator.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-06, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one
no vote cast by Council Member Behler. Motion carried 5-1.
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Groth, saying that he comes to Independence with
twelve years experience as a City Administrator, first with the City of Dayton
and most recently with the City of Crestview Hills. He stated he is a former
police officer and Solid Waste Coordinator with the Northern Kentucky Area
Development District. He stated Mr. Groth was instrumental in the development
of the Crestview Hills Town Center and is accomplished in grant writing and was
able to secure grant dollars for the City of Dayton. Mr. Groth thanked everyone
and stated he is anxious to begin work with the City next week.
Discussion of Richardson Road Bridge
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mark Brueggemann, City Engineer with CDS &
Associates. He stated he asked Mr. Brueggemann to inspect the Richardson Road
Bridge and report to Council regarding its condition. Mayor Moriconi explained
that the City is considering closing the bridge as recommended by the State due
to its deteriorating condition.
Mr. Brueggemann reported that he estimates the replacement cost for the bridge
would run about $600,000. He suggested that if the bridge is closed that the
City could consider the realignment of the intersection of Old Richard Road and
Old SR 17. He stated that the intersection is currently on a skewed angle with
sight distance problems. He stated the intersection could be shifted to obtain
a 100 foot site distance and the profile of the road could be modified to
replace 500 feet of the road and install a retaining wall. He stated this
option would not be without problems as there is some evidence of hillside
instability and he estimates the cost to do this project would also run
approximately $600,000 to $625,000. He also advised that he has not performed a
detailed analysis so there may be more cost factors.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the bridge could be repaired. Mr. Brueggemann replied
no, as there is exposed rebar and significant cracks of the piers. He stated it
would not be cost effective. Council Member Bushong asked if the City could
possibly obtain some funding from other agencies to assist with the replacement
cost. Mayor Moriconi advised that while we will look for some funding, that it
doesn’t look promising and that ultimately it is the City’s responsibility.
Further discussion centered on placing more signage in the area, the City’s
liability in keeping the bridge open to traffic, doing a traffic count and more
discussion on replacing the bridge. Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for
comments from the residents.
Steve Rymarquis, 4744 Crowe Road, Independence – stated that currently Rumpke
trucks and City dump trucks do not even observe the signs posted on the bridge.
He suggested the City replace the current bridge with a new one-lane bridge if
the savings would be significant. He stated his greater concern is that if the
bridge is closed there will be safety issues that will exist when more traffic
uses the intersection of Old Richardson Road and old SR 17.
Dave Murphy, 4794 Crowe Road, Independence – stated he would like to see the
bridge remain open and feels the City should build a new bridge even if it is a
costly option. He expressed concern that the City neglected the maintenance
throughout the years and are now looking at closing it or total replacement.
Council Member Little asked the City Engineer what the time frame would be if
the City would consider building a new bridge. Mr. Brueggemann stated it would
be an approximate six month process that would include design, bidding out the
project and construction. Mayor Moriconi stated the City might contact
Congressman Davis for possible federal grants.
Michelle Reinhart, 3124 Summitrun Drive, Independence – stated the bridge
currently has a weight limit posting of three tons and wondered how emergency
vehicles such as fire trucks would access the area.
Paul Bledsoe, 3512 Richardson Road, Independence – challenged the City
Engineer’s cost estimate of $600,000 for a new bridge. He stated he feels it
would be much less as he thinks the abutments are in good condition.
After hearing the City Engineers assessment of the bridge condition and
comments from the residents, Council Members Little and Yeager concurred that
they feel the best solution would be a total bridge replacement. Council
discussed looking for possible grant funds to build a new bridge as well as
establishing some temporary safety precautions until a permanent solution can
be found.
Charlie Birkenhauer, 922 Collins Rd, Villa Hills (business located at 4758
Crowe Road, Independence) – stated he has an auto body business on Crowe Road
and since he has deliveries to his shop from roll-offs he is constantly using
the bridge and asked that the City did not install any traffic control devices
on the bridge that would hurt his business.
Mayor Moriconi closed the discussion and advised more information would be
forthcoming regarding any funding opportunities that may be available to the
City and possible solutions regarding the bridge replacement.
Request for City to Sponsor A Text Amendment Application Relating to Outdoor
Music/Entertainment in the Outdoor Dining Area in the NSC Zone
Mr. Eric Deters, 5247 Madison Pike, Independence – addressed the Council on
behalf of Bill Cunningham and Willie’s Restaurant in the Towne Center by
requesting the City sponsor the application for a zoning text amendment that
would allow outdoor music in the NSC zone as a conditional use. He stated that
the restaurant has an outdoor dining area where they would like to provide
music and add some entertainment to the City. He also discussed plans to locate
a small bakery in the Towne Center that would produce home style baked cookies.
He stated they would want to be able to package the cookies for resale
elsewhere. A brief discussion ensued about the text amendments. Council Member
Bushong moved to sponsor the zoning text amendment(s) for Mr. Deters, seconded
by Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Award Bid for the Madison Pike Sidewalk Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received for the
Madison Pike Sidewalk Phase III Project. He stated that four bids were received
and the City Engineer has recommended awarding the contract to the low bidder,
R.A. Miller Construction at $207,725.00. He stated that 60% of this project is
being funded by grant dollars
Council Member Franzen moved to award the bid to R.A. Miller Construction in
the amount of $207,725.00, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2004-O-01 Regarding Sidewalk
Waivers – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would amend
Ordinance No. 2004-O-01 that permits property owners waivers for the
construction of sidewalks. Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to the City’s
Building Inspector, Kevin Barbian, who is proposing this ordinance be amended.
Mr. Barbian explained there are various areas of the City that most likely will
never be able to have sidewalks constructed due to the topography of the land,
etc. He stated he feels it is an undue burden to the property owner to require
them to request a temporary waiver and execute a lien against the property. He
stated he has received a lot of negative feedback from residents about this
requirement. He stated he would like the ordinance to be amended to allow for a
permanent waiver of the provision that requires the construction of sidewalks
when the building inspector finds that there are no existing sidewalks in the
vicinity and that it is highly unlikely that sidewalks will be constructed in
the vicinity in the near future. Mayor Moriconi commented that it makes sense
to him and that a permanent waiver could be a collaborative decision with the
Zoning Administrator and Public Services personnel. A brief discussion ensued.
Council Member Yeager expressed concern regarding others that have paid for the
temporary waiver. Council Member Franzen asked the cost of the lien. Mr.
Barbian replied that the cost is $20 per linear foot. Council Member Little was
concerned about possible legal issues. Mr. Deters commented that this amendment
would give Mr. Barbian some discretion in granting either a permanent or
temporary waiver. Mayor Moriconi suggested having a first reading of the
ordinance and then look into the issue more before the second presentation at
the September meeting. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment Regarding Shared Parking – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would approve a
zoning text amendment to make provisions for shared parking for off-street
parking facilities. Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld advised Council that
the Planning Commission made a recommendation to the City in February 1990 to
approve this provision, but it was not adopted by the Council. Council Member
Little asked which zones to which this would apply. Mrs. Wuestefeld stated it
would apply to all commercial zones, individual parcels and owners that share a
parking lot. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Franchise with Rumpke for Curbside Trash Pickup – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
relating to the contract renewal of the curbside collection of solid waste and
providing for an exclusive franchise to Rumpke of Northern Kentucky. Mr. Deters
read the proposed ordinance. There was no discussion.
Resolution No. 2008-R-06 – Authorize ––––Kentucky–– Office of Homeland Security
(KOHS) Application for P-25 Radio Project
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2008-R-06 authorizing him to make
application for a grant, and upon approval, enter into an agreement with the
Kentucky Office of Homeland Security for the acquisition of P-25 radios for the
police department. Assistant Police Chief, Dave Nichols stated this project
stems from the September 11 terrorist attack in New York City when it became
apparent of the inoperability between agencies. He stated this grant will
supply digital radios that are more advanced and will be a step toward better
operations between other agencies in our community.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2008-R-06. Council Member Little moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2008-R-06, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2008-R-07 – Authorize ––––Kentucky–– Office of Homeland Security
(KOHS) Application for MDT Project
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2008-R-07 authorizing him to make
application for a grant, and upon approval, enter into an agreement with the
Kentucky Office of Homeland Security for the acquisition of Mobile Data
Terminals (MDT) for the police department. Assistant Police Chief, Dave Nichols
stated this grant would provide in car computers, hardware, etc.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2008-R-07. Council Member Behler moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2008-R-07, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Police Report – Dave Nichols, Assistant Chief
Mr. Nichols stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi commented that the July 4th fireworks display this year was
outstanding and that a huge crowd turned out for the two day July 4th
Celebration. He stated the City received a lot of sponsorships to help defray
the cost of the event and he thanked everyone who volunteered their time and
talents.
Mayor Moriconi announced that our City Clerk recently completed the Chamber of
Commerce’s Leadership Northern Kentucky nine-month training program and was
also nominated for Clerk of the Year by the Northern Kentucky Municipal Clerk’s
Association.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:40 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 28, 2008
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Thursday, August 28, 2008 at 6:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker,
Carol Franzen, and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2008 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
·   Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2001-O-11 Relating to Fowler
Creek Sewer Debt Reduction Assessment specifically Amending the Time of
Periodic Payments – 1st Reading
·   Award Bid for Production Drive Resurfacing
·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
·   Adjournment
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2008 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
set the 2008 tax rates for real and personal property. Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance establishing the ad valorem tax on real estate property at
$0.200 dollars for each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed value and a
personal property tax rate of $0.596 dollars for each one hundred dollars
($100.00). Mayor Moriconi stated that the rates presented are the compensating
rate and does not include the 4% allowed by law and that the estimated revenue
for this tax was based on the adoption of the compensating rate for the 2008/09
budget. He stated this would be presented for a second reading and adoption at
the regular meeting of September 8, 2008.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2001-O-11 Relating to Fowler Creek
Sewer Debt Reduction Assessment specifically Amending the Time of Periodic
Payments – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2001-O-11 relating to the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt reduction
schedule. The proposed ordinance would specifically amend the time of the
periodic payments of the assessment. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. A
discussion ensued regarding a billing time and the consensus was to mail the
assessment bills in January with a payment due date of March 31 each year.
Council also added language to provide for penalty and interest to be affixed
to delinquent assessments; the penalty and interest to be calculated in the
same manner as the City’s property tax bills.
Council Member Franzen moved to accept the first reading as amended to add the
language discussed, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all
ayes.
Award Bid for Production Drive Resurfacing
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received on August
14, 2008 for the Production Drive Resurfacing Project. The City received six
bids which ranged from a low of $66,875.00 to the high bid of $88,696.00. He
stated the City Engineer has recommended the contract be awarded to Len Riegler
Blacktop in the amount of $66,875.00.
Council Member Behler moved to award the low bidder, Len Riegler Blacktop, the
contract, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business before the Council, Council Member Yeager moved
to adjourn, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting adjourned at 6:17 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 8, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
8, 2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Jim Bushong gave the invocation. Mayor Moriconi called the
meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Michael
Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Presentation by Senator Damon Thayer
Senator Damon Thayer presented a check to the City in the amount of
$25,398,267.00, which represented the amount of State funds used for the road
improvements to the new section of SR17. He stated that five years ago he
committed to see that the improvements were funded and the road completed and
within two weeks the road will be finished which will benefit the City in
relieving traffic congestion and create some economic development opportunities
in the area. He stated the road project took longer than anticipated but that
it is a nice stretch of road. He stated that he also noticed the sidewalk
improvements along the old section of SR17 in which he assisted the City in
obtaining State and Federal funds. Mayor Moriconi thanked Senator Thayer and
added that the City appreciates funding assistance with these projects. He
stated that the City would like his assistance with obtaining funds for bridge
repairs and other needed projects.
Mayor Moriconi asked Senator Thayer if he could give an update on future road
improvements for SR536. Senator Thayer explained that the road projects are
funded in phases and advised that the current state budget has funded the
design phase. He state the next phase would include right of way purchases and
relocating utilities.
Council Member Bushong mentioned that that new intersection of SR17 and
McCullum Road has become a traffic safety concern and suggested a traffic light
be installed. Mayor Moriconi stated that the State will perform a traffic study
to determine the need for a light in that area. Senator Thayer advised he would
also check into it.
Approval of the August 4, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on August 4, 2008. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the August 28, 2008 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on August 28, 2008. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
by Council Member Brinker. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered with four ayes and two abstentions from Council Members Bushong and
Little. Motion carried 4-2.
Privileges of the Floor
John Richardson, 10782 Cypresswood Drive, Independence – appeared before the
Council to let them know that he was launching the Independence Business
Association. He stated the time is right to start this association to get small
business owners involved with the City in an effort to keep them and attract
more business to the City. He stated the meetings will be held on the fourth
Monday each month and that more information can be found on the website –
indepba.org . Council Members commented that the formation of this organization
was a good idea and applauded his efforts.
Francie Allison, 786 Ackerly Drive, Independence – addressed Council with a
request to allow in home child care in her subdivision. Zoning Administrator,
Annie Wuestefeld advised Council that the Glenhurst Subdivision is a PUD
development that did not include in home child day care businesses on the Stage
I development plan. She stated this now becomes a legislative function that the
Council will need to authorize. She advised that the State has recently changed
their licensing procedures and is requesting written authorization from the
City before providing Ms. Allison with a state license. Mr. Deters advised that
if Council so desired to grant this request this could be accomplished by a
Resolution and would only pertain to the Glenhurst Subdivision. There was a
brief discussion that resulted in a consensus to grant Ms. Allison’s request.
Resolution No. 2008-R-10 – Relating to Day Care Facilities in the Glenhurst
Subdivision
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2008-R-10 that would
authorize State certified in- home day care facilities, serving not more than
six children (in addition to any children related to the day care provider for
a maximum of 10 children) as a permitted use within the Glenhurst Subdivision
Planned Unit Development and such facilities shall be deemed minor adjustments
from the original Stage I development plan. Council Member Bushong seconded the
motion. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Michelle Fails, 2816 Sycamore Creek Drive, Independence – addressed Council
with request to support the lowering of the speed limit on Fowler Creek Road
between Sycamore Creek Drive and SR17. She reported that she had been in a bad
car collision several months ago that resulted in injuries to her and her
child. She stated this stretch of road is the scene of many accidents including
one fatality. She stated she is asking the State to lower the speed limit to 35
mph.
There was a brief discussion that concluded with Council Member Franzen making
a motion to authorize the Mayor to send a letter to the State Transportation
Cabinet petitioning them to lower the speed limit. Motion was seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0. Mayor Moriconi commented that the Kenton County Fiscal Court was also in
favor of lowering the speed limit.
Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Text Amendment Adopting Model Sign Regulations –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mike Schwartz, staff Deputy Director for Current
Planning with the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission who provided
Council with some background regarding the proposed zoning text amendment that
would adopt new model sign regulations. He advised that the Planning Commission
hired a consultant two years ago to assist the Planning Commission staff in
drafting model sign regulations. He stated the proposed draft is content
neutral using knowledge of the most recent court cases. It also maintains
certain decade old policies, but does now allow any new billboards. Mr.
Schwartz stated that this text change stems from the submission of text
applications from some cities requesting new billboards which they disapproved.
A lengthy discussion ensued regarding billboards and other new features of the
model sign regulations. Council Member Behler suggested that the Council
postpone a first reading of the proposed ordinance until the Independence
Strategic Action Committee (ISAC) has time to review the proposal and provide
their feedback to the City. In an effort to move forward with the approval
process, the consensus of the Council was to proceed with a first reading and
if ISAC made recommendations for text changes, then a new first reading could
be done. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance to adopt model sign
regulations.
Award Bid for 2008 Street Repairs Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received for the
2008 Street Repairs Project. Five bids were submitted with the low bid being
from Barrett Paving in the amount of $98,540.00 and the high bid from Eaton
Asphalt in the amount of $111,540.00. He stated this project would resurface
four streets: Gary, Marilyn, Rusconi and Sherry drives. He also advised that
the Public Services maintenance staff would be working on Sherwood Drive and
Gunstock Drive.
Council Member Little moved to award the bid to Barrett Paving in the amount of
$98,540.00, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2004-O-01 Regarding Sidewalk
Waivers – Motion to Table 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend Ordinance No. 2004-O-01 which permits property owners waivers
for the construction of sidewalks. Council Member Franzen moved to table the
second reading of this ordinance. She stated she would like to discuss the
possibility of a more viable solution with the city attorney and building
inspector. The motion was seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-08 – Text Amendment Regarding Shared Parking – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
08, an ordinance that would approve a text amendment to the zoning ordinance to
make provisions for shared parking. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2008-O-08.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-08, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-09 – Franchise with Rumpke for Curbside Trash Pickup – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
09, an ordinance that would approve the contract renewal with Rumpke for
curbside collection of solid waste for the City residents. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2008-O-09.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-09, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-10 – Adopting 2008 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
10 that would adopt the 2008 property tax rates, both real estate and personal
properties. He stated the proposed rates are the compensating rates and have
calculated as $0.200 dollars for each $100.00 of assessed value of real estate
and $0.596 dollars for each $100.00 of assessed value of personal property
other than motor vehicles. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2008-O-10.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-10, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-11 – Amending Ordinance No. 2001-O-11 Relating to Fowler
Creek Sewer Debt Reduction Assessment – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-
11 that would amend the time of periodic payments of the Fowler Creek Sewer
debt reduction schedule. Council Member Yeager suggested deleting the language
in Section III which relates to a 1% maintenance fee increase each year. She
stated the City discontinued the maintenance fee in 2005 and the 1% fee
increase was never implemented, this part of the ordinance is baseless. Council
concurred and Mr. Deters advised he did not feel that striking this language
was a significant change that would warrant a new first reading. There being no
further discussion, Mr. Deters gave a second reading to Ordinance No. 2008-O-
11.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-11, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that he has sent a letter to the US Army Corps of Engineers
regarding the Crow Road/Richardson Road Bridge. He also reported that he and
Council Member Yeager met with NKADD staff to discuss possible grants to help
fund Memorial Park capital improvements and possibly a bridge replacement. He
advised Council that repair work will begin tomorrow on the Oby Drive lake to
fix a leaking problem. Mr. Groth also reported that he is attending the
meetings of the ISAC.
Action to Declare Surplus Property
Mr. Groth advised Council that the Police Department has two fleet cruisers
that need to be declared as surplus property so that they can be auctioned off.
Council Member Little moved to declare as surplus property a 2000 Ford Crown
Vic and a 2001 Ford Crown Vic, and to be sold at auction on October 4, 2008.
Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Mr. Groth advised that the State Highway Department will be conducting a
traffic study at the intersection of the new SR17 and McCullum Road due to
recent safety concerns on that stretch of roadway. They will notify the City
with the results of that study to let us know if a traffic signal is warranted.
In closing, Mr. Groth announced that the Northern Kentucky Solid Waste
Management will conduct their annual fall cleanup on October 3, 4 and 5, 2008.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a municipal order to replace a member of
the Code/Ethics Board who is resigning. He stated that he would like to appoint
Joseph Cottingham who is an attorney. He said it is good to have an attorney on
this Board which handles appeals of code violations and ethics concerns.
Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-07 – Appointment to the Code Enforcement/Board of
Ethics
Mayor read Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-07 that would appoint Joseph Cottingham
to the Code Enforcement/Board of Ethics, filling the unexpired term of Richard
Deters. Council Member Little moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-07,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:16 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 6, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
6, 2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim Bushong was
absent. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the September 8, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on September 8, 2008. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
ISAC (Independence Strategic Action Committee) Report – Chairman, Rodney Crice
Mayor Moriconi introduced Rodney Crice, Chairman of the ISAC who was present to
report the Committee’s activities. Mr. Crice stated that the members are
getting acquainted and have selected officers and divided into sub-committees.
He stated there are three sub-committees for historic preservation, zoning
update and city beautification. He stated they are focusing on short term
goals. He reported that the Committee is in the process of reviewing the
proposed Model Sign regulations and will have a recommendation to Council at
the next meeting.
City Administrator Dan Groth commented that the sub-committees meet at 6 pm
prior to the ISAC meeting at 7 pm on the third Thursday of each month. He
stated most meetings are held at the Senior Center, but occasionally they meet
in the Council Chambers. Mr. Groth also reported that the ISAC Committee
originally had seven members, but that two members have resigned. He stated
that the remaining Committee members have asked to be permitted to move on with
the five remaining members and not replace the two vacated positions at this
time.
Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Crice if he would bring the Committee’s recommendation
to Council regarding the Model Sign regulations at the City’s next meeting. Mr.
Crice replied yes, that is their goal.
Ratify Independence Village Stage II Development Plan – United Dairy Farmers –
NKAPC 1942R)
Mayor Moriconi presented for Council’s consideration a Stage II development
plan for the Independence Village for an approximate 1.6 acre area located at
the southwest corner of the intersection of Centennial Blvd. with the new SR17.
He stated this plan would involve the construction of a United Dairy Farmers
(UDF) convenience store with eight gasoline pumps and a canopy. He stated the
revisions to this plan would be the removal of a car wash, the addition of a
patio, additional signs on the canopy, as well as set back changes and a change
in the position of the structure on the lot. Mr. Groth advised Council they
were sent a booklet on the proposed development plan prior to tonight’s
meeting.
Representatives for UDF present at this meeting included architect John
Johnston, real estate developer Tim Kling and Don Stegman of Cardinal
Engineering. They advised that UDF entered into a contract with the developers
in 2005 and that the proposed development will be for the construction of 5300
square feet of retail space with eight fuel dispensers, an ice cream parlor and
attached outside patio. The plan would include extensive landscape. He stated
that the proposed signage is two square feet over what is permitted by the
City. They provided prototype photographs that would be used as models for the
Independence structure and indicated that the building would face north and
therefore requested four Mobile logo signs on the fuel pump canopy. He stated
they were also requesting a landscape monument sign at the entrance/exit to the
site. A discussion ensued regarding the signage, setbacks and obtaining a land
disturbance permit from SD1. Mr. Johnston advised that they have applied for
and submitted a bond for the land disturbance permit. Ms. Behler commented that
she was impressed with the extensive landscape design and asked if the greenery
would be replaced if ruined by drought, etc. Mr. Johnston stated that a full
irrigation system would be installed on the site to maintain the landscape.
There was discussion regarding a portion of the building that would be occupied
by a tenant. Mr. Kling advised that they would attempt to occupy that space
with a “high traffic driven” business, such as a pizza place or sandwich shop.
Final discussion regarding this development was the color of the roof. Council
expressed a desire to be consistent with the Independence Towne Center (green
roof) which has set the trend in the City. Mr. Johnston stated he would work
with the City on roof color. He stated they have owned the property for some
time now and would like to proceed with the construction as soon as possible.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve the Independence Village Stage
II development plan for the UDF parcel contingent on the following four
conditions:
·   Obtaining a land disturbance permit
·   Submitting the construction plans to the City’s Zoning Administrator prior
to issuance of a zoning permit
·   Approval of the roof color by City Council
·   Development must be completed within 12 months
Council Member Brinker seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered with
all ayes. Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that Council Member Behler has been awarded the Frank M.
Gaines Professional Award for her contribution made in the promotion of mental
health, prevention of mental illness and the improvement of diagnosis and
treatment of people with mental illness. He congratulated her and commented
that her achievement bodes well for the City of Independence.
Mr. Groth thanked the Public Works and Police department’s personnel for their
professionalism in handling calls the week following the windstorm on Sunday,
September 14, 2008. An area in Memorial Park, behind the Municipal Center, was
designated as a tree and yard debris drop off site for residents.
Mr. Groth reported that in response to the City’s request the state has
approved a speed limit reduction on Fowler Creek Road – from 45 mph to 35 mph.
He also announced that the City would be sponsoring a Howl-O-Ween event on
October 18, 2008 from noon to 6 PM at Memorial Park and that the City would
observe trick-or-treating on Friday, October 31, 2008 from 6:00-8:00 PM.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated he did not have anything to report.
Executive Session
At 7:41 p.m. City Attorney Jed Deters requested an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation, specifically
Cobble v City relating to the sewer maintenance fees. Council Member Yeager so
moved, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:16 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:17 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 10, 2008
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, November 10, 2008 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker,
Carol Franzen, and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
§   Approval of October 6, 2008 Meeting Minutes
§   Independence Village Development Stage II Revision (United Dairy Farmers) –
Discussion & Possible Action
§   Independence Village Development Stage II Revision (Republic Bank) –
Discussion & Possible Action
§   Proposed Ordinance – Establishing Speed Limits on Roads acquired from
Kenton County – 1st Reading
§   Proposed Ordinance – Occupational License Regulations Amendment – 1st
Reading
§   Ordinance No. 2008-O-12 – Relating to Sidewalk Waivers – Possible 2nd
Reading
§   Ordinance No. 2008-O-13 – Adopting Model Sign Regulations – 2nd Reading
§   Resolution No. 2008-R-11 – Designating an Agent for a Grant Application for
Federal Disaster Assistance
§   Executive Session in accordance with KRS 61.810 to discuss pending
litigation
Approval of the October 6, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on October 6, 2008. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
with five ayes and one abstain by Council Member Bushong; motion carried 5-1.
Independence Village Development Stage II Revision (United Dairy Farmers)
Mayor Moriconi stated that when the UDF representatives last appeared before
the Council there was some discussion regarding the roof color of the store
planned for the intersection of Centennial Blvd. and the new section of SR17.
He stated that Mr. Johnston is here to present some sample colors for the roof.
Mr. Johnston presented four roof samples in shades of blue and green for
Council’s consideration. He also advised that they decided to eliminate the
extra retail space in this structure they had originally planned to lease. He
stated they feel this store will be successful at this location and they will
probably need the extra space for the UDF store. Council briefly discussed the
roof colors.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve the Stage II development plan, without
the retail rental space and with a blue roof color. Council Member Yeager
seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered 6-0.
Independence Village Development Stage II Revision (Republic Bank)
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Carol James, representative of Republic
Bank. Ms. James stated she was appearing before the Council regarding the
signage of this bank. She advised that the signs were installed before a City
permit was obtained. She stated that the directional signs are in violation of
the Stage I plan requirements and is asking the Council to allow them to keep
the signs in place. She stated they also have also applied for another sign
permit which would be attached to the building. She said the proposed sign
exceeds the permitted square footage by two feet and is asking the City to
waive this. She stated the directional signs are illuminated and aid the
customers in navigating the property. She stated the traffic on the property is
one-way and the signs are a safety issue. Ms. James apologized for the mishap
in installing the signs before a permit was obtained. She stated their vendor
used a sub-contractor and there was some miscommunication.
Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld advised Council that in the approved
Stage I development plan each tenant in this strip mall was permitted two 60-
square foot monument signs and one 40-square foot façade sign. If they submit
anything different from the approved Stage I plan then it goes back for a Stage
II plan review. She stated that since this development is a PUD the Council has
to give final approval.
Council Member Behler expressed concern that the bank was asking for
forgiveness instead of getting permission. Council Member Franzen stated she
was willing to allow the signs that have already been installed but that the
building sign would need to comply with the Stage I plan requirements and not
the 42 square feet that was being proposed. A brief discussion ensued.
Council Member Yeager moved to approve all the signage currently installed at
the site, including the directional signs and to disapprove the additional
proposed 42 square foot façade sign on the east elevation of the building.
Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered with
four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Behler and Bushong. Motion
carried 4-2.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing Speed Limits on Roads acquired from Kenton
County – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
establish new speed limits on the following streets: 25 mph for Stephens Road
and Pelly Road; and 35 mph for Oliver Road, Hogrefe Road, Marshall Road, Mills
Road and Cody Road. Mr. Groth, City Administrator advised that all city streets
have an automatic 20 mph speed limit unless otherwise established by ordinance.
He said the county has asked the City to allow the speed limits as proposed in
the ordinance. There being no discussion, Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to
give the ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Occupational License Regulations Amendment – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for Council’s consideration a proposed ordinance that
will amend the current Occupational License regulations. Mr. Groth explained
that the City of Covington would like to be a part of this interlocal agreement
with Kenton County who administers and collects the occupational license fees
for many of the cities in Northern Kentucky. He stated that the current annual
county-wide license fee is $185.00 which is divided among the participating
cities. He went on to say that to accommodate Covington joining the agreement
the county-wide license fee would increase to $225.00. He stated that
Covington’s share of the county-wide license fee would be $25.00 with the
remainder of the increased amount to be placed in an escrow account until such
time that an equitable division calculation could be reached. Mr. Groth
commented that any new calculation will be favorable for Independence as the
old calculation was based on outdated factors. Since Covington would like to
join effective January 1, 2009 each city is being asked to pass an updated
ordinance that would include Covington in the multi-jurisdictional agreement by
December 31, 2008.
Council Member Franzen expressed some reservations with raising the rates in
this sluggish economy. Mr. Groth advised that the rates have not been raised
since 1993 and that the realtors have been actively petitioning the State to
adopt a central collection of this tax which would not benefit the cities.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Sidewalk Waivers – Second Reading of Proposed Ordinance – Postponed
Indefinitely
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend Ordinance No. 2004-O-01 that provides for sidewalk waivers
with the use of property liens. Council Member Franzen advised that she has
discussed this at length with Mr. Deters and Kevin Barbian (Building
Inspector). She stated that she does not like the idea of a property lien as
they cause problems at the time of a property transfer. She stated she would
prefer language that would permit the City to assess the property owner at the
time when sidewalks are installed. Mr. Deters stated that sidewalk projects are
considered a public improvement and the City would always have the right to
assess the property owner if and when sidewalks are constructed. A lengthy
discussion ensued about the pros and cons of liens and assessments. In closing,
Council was unable to reach a consensus. Council Member Franzen moved to
indefinitely table the second reading of the proposed ordinance, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Model Sign Regulations Text Amendment – Second Reading of Ordinance Postponed
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend the zoning text adopting new model sign regulations. He
stated, as directed by the Council, the Independence Strategic Action Committee
(ISAC) has reviewed the text changes and submitted their recommendations,
meeting minutes and notes for Council’s consideration. Council Member Franzen
stated that since ISAC has proposed numerous text changes that a new first
reading should be done on this ordinance. A discussion ensued. Mr. Groth
advised that a few cities have made some minor changes to the text that has
been proposed by the Planning Commission and only one local city has not
adopted these regulations. He stated if the Council decides not to adopt these
model sign regulations then we would just keep the regulations currently being
used.
After some discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Behler to have the
City Attorney review the proposed model sign regulations as well as the
proposed ISAC recommended changes before Council makes any changes. Council
Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2008-R-11 – Designation of Applicant Agent for FEMA Disaster
Assistance
Mr. Groth, City Administration advised Council there were federal funds
available for damages from the September 14, 2008 windstorm that struck this
area. He stated this resolution would authorize him to execute an application
and file it in the appropriate State office. He stated our damage expenses were
minimal, but we could apply for reimbursement from FEMA. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2008-R-11.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2008-R-11, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Executive Session
There being no further business to discuss, Mayor Moriconi entertained a motion
to enter into an Executive Session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to
discuss pending litigation on a sewer related issue, specifically Cobble v
City. Council Member Little so moved, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion
carried with all ayes. At 8:08 p.m. Council retired to the Executive Session
room.
At 9:30 p.m. Council Member Behler moved to reconvene the regular session of
the Council meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all
ayes.
Cobble v City – Motion to Appeal Judge’s Ruling
Council Member Brinker moved to direct the City Attorney to pursue an appeal of
the recent decisions in the Cobble matter. He stated that while it is his
desire and that of this Council, to return to the citizens of Independence
every dollar that should be refunded to them that he wants to ensure that it is
all accomplished in a legal and appropriate manner. He stated that he is not
just convinced that this will be accomplished under the current decision and
the parameters set forth therein. He stated this is especially true in light of
the latest lawsuit which challenges the Fowler Creek assessment process.
Council Member Bushong seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business before the Council, Council Member Little moved
to adjourn, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting adjourned at 9:31 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
_________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 1, 2008
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
1, 2008 at 7:00 pm in the Municipal Center Council Chambers with Mayor
Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi led the Pledge of Allegiance
and the invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Mayor Moriconi
called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen,
Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Mayor Moriconi stated that we have a lot of good things happening at tonight’s
meeting and that the City has the pleasure of recognizing several members of
the Independence Police Department for jobs well done this year. In addition,
the Police Department has re-established the Police Chaplain Program. He stated
he would first swear-in the Police chaplains.
Swearing-In of Police Chaplains
Mayor Moriconi administered the Oath of Office to, and introduced James Gentry
of the Mt. Zion Baptist Church, Charlie Steger of the Hickory Grove Baptist
Church, Dr. Gary Wilson, Counselor and Evangelist, Wilbert Ellis of Grace
Baptist Church and Lisa May of Faith Community Church. Chief Butler distributed
to each Chaplain a framed plaque of the Oath document. Mayor Moriconi thanked
each of them for their service to the community.
Awards Recognition for City Police Officers and Members of Police Explorers
Program
Mayor Moriconi stated that the Police Department has several officers that are
members of the Northern Kentucky Emergency Response Unit (NKERU), otherwise
known as S.W.A.T. He advised that the NKERU recently took first place in the
annual competition of KTOA (Kentucky Tactical Officers Association), which is a
statewide competition that involves other tactical groups and that the first
place status was for overall performance by the team.
Mayor Moriconi stated that the members of the Independence Police Explorers
participated in the 2008 Bowling Green Police Explorers competition in
September. He stated the Explorers are a group of local 14-21 year olds
learning about law enforcement. He stated the Independence Explorers members
are: Ben Bridges, Matt Hard, Cody Miller, Cody Cioffe, Dustin Jones, Joe
Portwood, Sara Chard, Drew Lucas and C.J. Whittenberger. Mayor Moriconi
congratulated them on taking third place in the active shooter competition, a
simulated training exercise.
Mayor Moriconi asked everyone to join him in honoring Officer Todd Bennett and
Officer Russ Woods who were involved in a tragic incident on Freedom Trail in
October. In recognition of their unselfless actions during an emergency
situation, which resulted in the saving of a human life, Mayor Moriconi
presented each Officer with a life saving award for their heroism and a silver
star for their bravery which has been granted by the American Police Hall of
Fame. Mayor Moriconi commented that all the City’s police officers never
panicked and quickly took control of the situation that night. He applauded
their work and stated it was an honor to have them on the Independence Police
force.
Next, in recognition of their outstanding investigation in an unusual and
difficult criminal case where they displayed officer’s skills and dedication to
the City, Mayor Moriconi presented Officer Mike Thatcher, Detectives Jim Moore
and Mike Richman and Officer Matt Hicks an award for their achievement in
criminal investigation.
Mayor Moriconi then presented each of the following with an Outstanding
Commendation Award for their performance of duties as a police officer and for
their actions during the tragic incident that occurred on Freedom Trail in
October: Assistant Police Chief Dave Nichols, Captain Bailey, Captain Lucas,
and Sgt. Lonaker, Sgt. Paul, Sgt. Schultz, Sgt. Schworer and Officers Todd
Bennet, Nathan Fuson, Tony Hill, Ron Hutchinson and Russ Wood.
Certification of Public Works Employees
City Administrator, Dan Groth announced that two of the City’s Public Works
personnel recently received their Road Master certification from the University
of Kentucky Transportation Center. He stated that Ken Hicks and Tom Robke will
be receiving their awards at a special luncheon December 16, 2008 at the
Executive Inn in Louisville.
Approval of the November 10, 2008 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on November 10, 2008. Council Member Behler so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstention from Council Member Bushong. Motion
carried 5-1.
Privileges of the Floor
Vic Morrison, 100 Roselawn, Independence – commented that he has supported the
police department for many years and was proud to see them honored for their
service to the City.
Twenhofel Middle School – Students Energy Wise Team
Mayor Moriconi stated he has received emails from some students of Twenhofel’s
Energy Wise Team. He introduced eighth-grader Blake Emmons who was present to
talk to Council about the Energy Wise team, what it would mean to the City and
how the City can help.
Mr. Emmons addressed Council by explaining the school’s Energy Wise team
promotes the saving of energy and helping the environment. He stated that they
would like to propose that the City lower the recycling rates paid by the
residents or provide incentives to participate in recycling such as giving tax
breaks. He stated they have implemented a recycling program at school and it
seems helpful. Mayor Moriconi advised that Rumpke sets the recycling rates.
Mayor Moriconi suggested the students submit an article for the City’s spring
newsletter that would provide information about their Energy Wise team and give
the residents advice on how they can help the environment and save energy. Mr.
Groth reported that currently only 6% of the property owners participate in
curbside recycling and that if the City did provide for the cost of recycling
the participation would still be relatively low at an estimated 20%. He stated
he agrees that recycling saves space in landfills and ultimately helps our
environment. Mr. Emmons thanked Mayor Moriconi and Council for allowing him to
speak about this issue. Mayor thanked the students and applauded their efforts.
Again Mayor Moriconi encouraged the students to submit an article for the next
newsletter.
Simon Kenton High School – Engineering Students “Safety Zone” Proposal
Mayor Moriconi stated he went to Simon Kenton HS a few weeks ago and met with
some engineering students who have created a type of a safety zone in front of
the high school along the new section of SR17 from the area of Chambers &
Grubbs funeral home to the intersection of SR 536. He stated the students have
created a schematic drawing of the area and have proposed ideas that include
lowering the speed limit to 35 mph, installing grooves in the road, electronic
flashing speed sign. Mayor Moriconi stated he has advised the students that
SR17 is a state maintained road and the City is limited by what the State
agrees to regarding the road, but that we would be happy to petition the State
on behalf of the students.
A lengthy discussion ensued. Student, Chelsea Williams stated a lady was
recently struck while crossing the road in front of the school and they feel
that lowering the speed limit and adding more signage could make the school
zone area safer. Ms. Williams reported that many students that cannot afford a
school parking pass park at the Independence Towne Center parking lot and then
walk to the school. Council Member Brinker stated he would also like to see
sidewalks constructed in the area. Mayor Moriconi suggested that the City might
be able to partner with the Kenton County School Board for the installation of
the sidewalks and stated he would arrange a meeting with them to discuss these
issues. Further discussion centered on the sidewalks along the old section of
SR17, SR536 and the vicinity of the Towne Center. Mr. Deters advised that
undeveloped lots in the Towne Center do not have to install the sidewalks until
the lots are sold and developed. Mr. Groth stated that a preliminary estimate
to install sidewalks from SR536 to the school would be approximately $88,000.
Mayor Moriconi stated this cost could be discussed with the School Board
representatives. Council Member Franzen asked when McDonald’s would be
installing the section of sidewalk on their property. Mr. Groth advised this
would be installed in the near future.
Council Member Brinker made a motion to move forward with installing sidewalks
along the old section of SR17 from McDonald’s to Simon Kenton High School as
soon as possible and before the start of the next school year beginning in
August 2009. Council Member Little seconded the motion. Council Member Yeager
stated she feels the State should install sidewalks on the lot they own.
Council Member Behler stated that while she fully supports the installation of
the sidewalks, this is not a simple project and she would like to know where
the funds will come from to pay for this project. There being no further
discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Council Member Behler commented that she feels the City will agree to do its
part to make this a safe zone, but that it is also important that the students
develop a safety awareness program within the school that will compliment the
City’s efforts. Mayor Moriconi stated that we might need a motion based on
their key points to send to the State regarding the speed limit. Mr. Deters
stated he would draft a Resolution to be presented at the January meeting that
would outline the City’s support of the student’s proposal. Council Member
Yeager so moved, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2008-R-12 - Requesting State Hwy Dept to Reduce Speed Limits on
Certain Streets & Install traffic light on new SR16 and Cox Road
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2008-R-12 that would support
the installation of a traffic light at the intersection of SR16 and Cox Road as
well as reduce the speed limit to 35 miles per hour on Cox Road. Mr. Groth
stated that residents have petitioned the City to reduce the speed limit and to
look into the feasibility of a traffic light. He stated the State will make a
study and report back to the City. Council Member Behler asked if the City
would have any other options if the State does not meet the City’s request. Mr.
Groth stated that other safety measures could be implemented such as additional
signage, speed humps, etc.
Don Nienabor, 66 McCullum Road, Independence commented that he uses the road
every day and that visibility is impeded by vans parked in the old gas station
lot on the corner. Mr. Groth stated he would have the Police Chief looked into
it to see if a code violation exists.
There being no further discussion, Council Member Bushong moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2008-R-12, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2008-R-13 - Authorize the Application of a Land & Water
Conservation Fund Grant
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2008-R-13 that would approve the pre-
application of a grant to the Department of Local Government for assistance
under the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 for the development of
recreational areas in the City. Mr. Groth advised that applications would be
accepted until December 15, 2008. He stated that the City would apply for a
$75,000 matching grant and if the City is awarded the grant the funds would be
used to make capital improvements (basketball courts, parking lot, etc.) to
Memorial Park.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2008-R-13, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Resolution No. 2008-R-14 – Approving a Revised Personnel Policy handbook
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2008-R-14 which would adopt
a revised Personnel Policy. He stated that the Policy has not been updated in
several years and that many of the updates include deleting ‘department head’
text and inserting ‘city administrator’ in its place. Council Member Yeager
asked to discuss the Policy update in executive session. Mr. Deters advised
that City policies are not permitted to be discussed in closed session. Mr.
Groth stated that if the Council have numerous questions or concerns that this
could be put off until the January meeting.
Council Member Little moved to table action on this Resolution, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried 5-1.
Mayor Moriconi stated this would be placed on the January agenda.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-12 – Establishing Speed Limits on Roads acquired from
Kenton County – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2008-O-12 that
would establish new speed limits on the following streets: 25 mph for Stephens
Road and Pelly Road; and 35 mph for Oliver Road, Hogrefe Road, Marshall Road,
Mills Road and Cody Road. There was a brief discussion and then Mr. Deters gave
the Ordinance a second reading.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance 2008-O-12 seconded by Council
Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2008-O-13– Occupational License Regulations Amendment – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Ordinance No. 2008-O-13 that will amend the
current Occupational License regulations which would increase the county-wide
license fee from $185.00 to $225.00 per year. It would also amend the
interlocal agreement to include the City of Covington in the county-wide
license.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2008-O-13, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no
votes cast by Council Members Franzen and Little. Motion carried 4-2.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that a workshop is being held for newly elected city
officials on Saturday, January 10, 2009 from 10 a.m. until noon at Thomas More
College.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-08 - Re-appoint Dave Millward to Telecommunications
Board
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a Municipal Order that would approve his
re-appointment of Dave Millward to the Telecommunications Board of Northern
Kentucky. Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2008-MO-08,
seconded by Council member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Authorize Interlocal Agreement with SD1 for Locust Lane Storm Sewer Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed Agreement between the City and
the Sanitation District relating to the Locust Lane storm sewer project. Mr.
Groth explained that the total cost of the project is $26,400 and that the
District has approved up to a 50% share amount for this project. He stated that
the City’s share would be to perform the construction and include the labor as
our 50% contribution to the project.
Council Member Franzen moved to authorize Mayor Moriconi to execute the
Agreement with the Sanitation District for the Locust Lane Storm Sewer Project,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Christmas Walk
Mayor Moriconi announced that the City’s annual Christmas Walk would be on
Saturday, December 6, 2008 from 7-9 p.m. He stated there would be plenty of
family activities including camel and pony rides, a live nativity, Santa and
Mrs. Claus and choirs performing at the Senior Center and the Municipal Center.
He urged everyone to come out on Saturday evening.
Council Member Brinker’s Closing Remarks
This was Council Member Tom Brinker’s last meeting of his term. He thanked
everyone for having faith in him and he stated he would still be around doing
volunteer work for the City. Mayor Moriconi thanked him and commented that he
does all the electrical work for the July 4th celebration each year. He stated
it’s been great having him on the Council and thanked him for all his work.
Executive Session
At 8:10 p.m. City Attorney Jed Deters requested an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation, specifically
Cobble v City relating to the sewer maintenance fees. Council Member Bushong so
moved, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:56 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:57 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2009 Minutes
January 5, 2009
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
5, 2009 at 7:00 pm in the auditorium of Simon Kenton High School, 11132 Madison
Pike, Independence, with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi
called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Margaret
Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim
Bushong was absent. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Proclamation presented to Simon Kenton High School Football Team
Mayor Moriconi presented a Key to the City and Proclamation to the Simon Kenton
High School football team to commend them on their successful season winning
the regional championship trophy and going on to compete in and win the
school’s first ever semi-final championship game which qualified them to play
in the state championship game held on December 13, 2008. Mayor Moriconi
applauded the team members and head Coach Jeff Marksberry and his coaching
staff on their achievements and the positive recognition they brought to our
community. Coach Marksberry thanked Mayor Moriconi and the City Council.
Approval of the December 1, 2008 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on December 1, 2008. Council Member Behler so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and one
abstain voiced by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 4-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex New Section of SR17 – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would document
the City’s intent to annex approximately fifty-three acres of ground being the
right of way of relocated KY17 south from Fowler Creek Road. He stated that by
annexing these right of way parcels the City would control future developments
on this road. Mr. Groth, City Administrator, commented that the annexed areas
total five sections along the new SR17 starting at the southerly corporation
line of the City of Covington and continuing on past McCullum Road.
There being no comments from Council, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading. Mayor Moriconi advised that the City would not be annexing
private properties along this road, just the right of way.
Resolution No. 2009-R-01 – Approving a Revised Personnel Policy Handbook
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-01 which would adopt
a revised Personnel Policy handbook. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2009-R-01.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-01, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Council Member Little asked a couple of questions
regarding probationary periods and cell phones as a taxable employee fringe
benefit. There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2009-R-02 – Supporting Simon Kenton High School Principals of
Engineering Class “Safety Zone” Project
Mayor Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2009-R-02 that would support the
proposals of the Principles of Engineering Class of Simon Kenton High School
for the installation and initiation of a “safety zone” on SR17. Mayor Moriconi
reminded Council that this project was presented to the City at the last
meeting. He stated a copy of this Resolution would be sent to the State. Mr.
Deters read Resolution No. 2009-R-02.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-02, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried
5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Text Amendment to Adopt Model Sign Regulations
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt a zoning text amendment deleting current sign regulations and
inserting new model sign regulations. He stated that due to the length of the
document, lingering concerns by Council regarding some of the proposed text
changes, and the seating of a new member of Council at this meeting that it may
be best to delay the second reading of this ordinance until next month. He
stated that Council needs to be comfortable in adopting these proposed
regulations and suggested that Council send all their concerns and/or questions
to the City Administrator who will meet with the NKAPC staff to get answers.
Mayor Moriconi stated that most of the cities in Northern Kentucky have adopted
this model sign text, except for the City of Independence. He stated he is
comfortable with holding off on taking action on this until next month.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that a symposium for local government officials will be held
this Saturday, January 10th at the Sanitation District’s meeting room.
Council Member Behler asked if the City has discussed additional street
lighting on the new section of SR17. A brief discussion ensued about ways to
make this new stretch of roadway safer for motorists. Suggestions included more
lighting and directional signage to the business district on the old section of
SR17. Mayor Moriconi commented that he would also like to fund new city
entrance signs in the 2009/2010 budget.
Municipal Order 2009-MO-01 – Appointment of Council Member Behler to OKI Board
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a Municipal Order that would approve his
appointment of Council Member Behler to represent the City on the OKI Board of
Directors.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-01, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that he would be hosting the Northern Kentucky Mayor’s
Group for their monthly meeting on Saturday, January 16th at 9:00 a.m. at the
Senior Center and encouraged the Council Members to attend this meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:31 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 9, 2009
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, February 9, 2009 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Approval of January 5, 2009 Meeting Minutes
·   Independence Village – KCPC W-649 Waiver Request
·   Ordinance No. 2009-O-01 – Text Amendment Approving Model Sign Regulations –
2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2009-O-02 – Intent to Annex a Total of 53.267 Acres, More or
Less, and being the Right of Way Area of Relocated KY-17 – 2nd Reading
·   Proposed Ordinance – Approving Cincinnati Bell Cable Franchise – 1st
Reading
·   Accept Property Transfer of Land Known as Shadywood Park and Authorize
Mayor to Sign Property Deed
·   Municipal Order 2009-MO-02 – Appointing Mary Pat Dressman to Senior Board
·   City Administrator’s Report
o   Additional street lights to be installed on new section of SR17
·   Mayor’s Report
o   Presentation of 2007 Annual Audit
o   Update on Old Richardson Road Bridge
·   Executive Session in accordance with KRS 61.810 (if necessary)
Approval of the January 5, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on January 5, 2009. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
by Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstain by Council Member Bushong; motion
carried 5-1.
Independence Village – KCPC No. W-649 Waiver Request
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council correspondence from the Kenton County
Planning Commission relating to an application by Ashley Commercial Group
requesting waivers for two subdivision requirements. The first waiver request
was for the requirement that curb cuts along Madison Pike be located at least
400 feet away from the intersection of Madison Pike and Centennial Blvd and the
second waiver request was the requirement of the private street be provided to
interconnect Centennial Drive opposite Everett Drive with the private street
east of Lot #12 and require sidewalks along both sides of this private drive as
shown on the approved amended Stage I development plan. Mayor Moriconi asked
Mike Schwartz, Chief Planner with the Planning Commission to comment on these
waiver requests. Mr. Schwartz advised that the Planning Commission has approved
the first request regarding the curb cut and permitted the proposed access
point along Madison Pike as a right-in/right-out access point only. He stated
this would prohibit left turn ingress/egress. He stated the second waiver
request to eliminate the private street and sidewalks has been denied. Mr.
Schwartz stated that the correspondence was sent to the City for informational
purposes and that no action by the Council was necessary as these were
subdivision regulation waiver request which are handled by the Planning
Commission staff.
DEFEATED Ordinance No. 2009-O-01 – Text Amendment Approving Model Sign
Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-01 which
would approve a text amendment that would eliminate the current sign
regulations in the City’s zoning ordinance and adopt new model sign
regulations. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2009-O-01 a second reading.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-01, seconded by
Council Member Behler.
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for comments and discussion. Council Member
Little distributed a handout he compiled that contained a sampling of photos of
current signs throughout the City that would not be legal to erect under the
new regulations in the model ordinance. He stated that his concerns were that
the new sign regulations would be difficult to enforce as they seem too
complicated and intrusive. He stated many of the signs were on church and
school properties NKAPC Planner, Mike Schwartz stated that public schools are
exempt from zoning regulations. Another concern expressed by Council was the
limit of 4 political signs per property. Mr. Schwartz stated the City could
place a higher limit of political signs. Council Member Franzen express
concerns that the new regulations would limit free speech. Mr. Schwartz advised
that adopting the new regulations would provide a better legal foundation. He
stated that the Planning Commission hired a consultant who worked on this
document for approximately a year and that many of the new regulations were
drafted based on current federal court cases. There was discussion about making
several text changes, but Mr. Schwartz cautioned that changing one element of
the document could affect the whole. Mr. Little stated he understood that and
would rather vote it down than to make a lot of changes. Council Member Behler
expressed concern about keeping the current regulations if they were not up to
the current legal standards.
Roll call vote was taken and answered with two ayes and four no votes cast by
Council Members Bushong, Cook, Little and Yeager. Motion failed.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt the proposed model sign regulations in
Ordinance No. 2009-O-01 without limits on political yard signs for single
family and multi-family residential properties, seconded by Council Member
Behler. Roll was called and answered with two ayes and four no votes cast by
Council Members Cook, Little, Yeager and Bushong. Motion failed and Ordinance
No. 2009-O-01 was defeated on the second reading.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-02 – Intent to Annex a Total of 53.267 Acres, More or
Less, and Being the Right of Way Area of Relocated SR17 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-
02. This ordinance is an intent to annex a total of 53.267 acres, more or less,
and being the right of way area of relocated SR17 from Fowler Creek Road and
south thereof, and owned by the State of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet. Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2009-O-02.
Motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-02. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Cincinnati Bell Cable Franchise – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to a Council a proposed ordinance that would grant a
competitive, non-exclusive franchise to Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories
LLC (CBET) that would provide for the construction, erection, installation and
operation of a cable television system for a term of twelve years. He commented
that this would bring competition to the community for this type of services.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Accept Property Transfer of Land Known as Shadywood Park and Authorize Mayor to
Sign Property Deed
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council copies of two deeds that have been
presented to the City by Grand Communities for the transfer of two parcels in
the Shadybrook Trails Subdivision which has been developed as recreational
areas with the intent of City ownership. Mr. Deters commented that the legal
fair market value of these properties has not been noted on the deeds and
suggested that the deeds be revised to include that information. Recreation
Director, Nita Brake advised Council that the City still owes approximately
$5,500 on a final installment under an agreement the City had with the
developer to install improvements on the property. She stated the developer
submitted a bill to the City for a water fountain that was installed, but that
the City has rejected the bill as the fountain was included on the original
site plan. Mr. Groth commented that he spoke to the developer about the
drinking fountain last week to explain the City’s position.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Behler to authorize Mayor Moriconi to sign the
deeds for the transfer of the Shadybrook Trails Subdivision park property. Roll
was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member
Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-02 - Appointing Mary Pat Dressman to Senior Board
Mayor Moriconi stated he would like to appoint Mary Pat Dressman to the Senior
Board of Directors and presented to Council a municipal order to approve this
appointment.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-02
approving the mayoral appointment of Mary Pat Dressman to the Senior Board,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered with al ayes.
Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that he met with representatives of the State highway
regarding the City’s concern with lack of adequate street lighting on the new
section of SR17. He stated that since poles are already in the area, Duke
Energy has agreed to install the light fixtures and then the City would just
have to pay the monthly electric charges.
Council Member Yeager moved to approve the installation of the lights on the
poles and pay the electricity bills, seconded by Council Member Little. No roll
call; motion carried with all ayes.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Presentation of 2007 Audit -  Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the 2007
Audit report for fiscal year ending June 2008. He asked the Council to review
the document and direct any questions about it to Finance Director, Teresa
Hudson or to City Administrator, Dan Groth.
Update on Old Richardson/Crowe Road Bridge
Mayor Moriconi reported that action needs to be taken regarding the Old
Richardson Road Bridge. He advised that research has provided some cheaper
alternatives and consideration is being given to replacing the current bridge
with a one lane suspension bridge. He stated the bridge would cost
approximately $100,000 and the installation of the bridge would run between
$50,000 - $150,000. He stated that the City could realize some savings if the
Public Services employees dismantled the old bridge. Mr. Groth commented that a
realistic estimate for the bridge replacement would be between $175,000 -
$250,000. Mayor Moriconi stated this option is more cost effective than the
original estimate of $600,000 and bids may come in much lower than our estimate
due to the economic recession.
Mr. Groth commented that during the interim, and since the State has advised
the City that it is their recommendation that the bridge be closed, on April 1,
2009 the bridge will be closed until a replacement can be installed. He stated
that the he will be working with Kenton County officials to make application
for a bridge enhancement grant. He stated that while Kenton County is not
responsible for this bridge they have to apply for the grant on behalf of the
City.
A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Deters advised that by law if the residents that
are serviced by the bridge will not give their consent to close the bridge,
then the City will have to file suit against them. It was decided to send
another letter to the residents in the area of the bridge to inform them of the
April 1 Bridge closing and the City’s plans to replace the bridge if grant
money can be allocated from the State.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:27 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 2, 2009
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 2,
2009 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor
Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. An
invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the February 9, 2009 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on February 9, 2009. Council Member Behler so moved, with second
by Council Member Little. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment (KCPC No. 1952R)
Regulation Changes in NSC Zones – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would accept the
recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission for a zoning text
amendment that would modify the NSC (Neighborhood Shopping Center) zone that
would allow bakery and bakery goods stores to sell their products elsewhere off
the premises where they are baked and to disapprove outdoor dining areas, as a
conditional use, to have entertainment, music and sound amplifying systems. Mr.
Deters commented that he drafted a proposed ordinance pursuant to the KCPC
recommendation. Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion on the
recommendation.
A discussion ensued with Mr. Eric Deters, owner of the Bulldog’s Roadhouse
restaurant, who had requested Council consider these amendments to the zoning
regulations. Council’s main concern was that the outdoor music could be a
nuisance to the adjoining residential areas. Mr. Eric Deters stated that the
outdoor music would be mainly easy listening and acoustical types during the
warmer months – May through September. Council discussed imposing some
restrictions that included distance from residential zones and hours that music
could be played. Council Member Yeager suggested that the music could be played
until 10:00 p.m. on weekdays and 11:00 p.m. on weekends. Further discussion
identified weekends as Friday and Saturday nights and weekdays as Monday
through Thursday. Mayor Moriconi asked for a motion to indicate if the proposed
ordinance should be amended to permit the outdoor music.
Council Member Bushong moved with second by Council Member Yeager to add as a
conditional use, entertainment, music, and sound amplifying systems within the
outdoor dining areas, with the additional conditions that the same is only
permitted during the months of May through September, acoustical music shall be
permitted Sunday through Thursday until 10:00 p.m. and until 11:00 p.m. on
Friday and Saturday. No roll call; motion carried with four ayes and two no
votes.
The City Attorney gave the proposed ordinance a first reading as amended by
Council. Mayor Moriconi stated the ordinance would be presented for a second
reading at the April 6, 2009 meeting.
Occupational License Fees
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a revised Interlocal Agreement with Kenton
County for the collection of the City’s Occupational License Fees and Taxes.
The revised agreement would incorporate the City of Covington into the county-
wide business license, and in doing so would raise the county-wide license fee
to $225.00. Also the county would increase their collection fee from 1% to 2%.
Mr. Groth commented that the fee has not been increased since the inception of
the original agreement which was approximately fifteen years ago.
Council Member Franzen expressed concern that the agreement allows the County
to increase the collection fee in any even numbered year. Mr. Groth advised the
County would have to notify each participating City prior to any increase,
along with documentation of increased costs incurred by the County in providing
the services to justify the increase.
Council Member Little questioned language in the agreement wherein the County
would charge a consultation fee of $75.00 per hour. Mr. Groth stated the City
would have to request special consultation over and above the services
otherwise provided in this agreement.
Mr. Groth suggested that he address Council’s concerns with a representative
from the County office. Mayor Moriconi stated this issue would be tabled until
the April meeting.
Resolution No. 2009-R-03 – Authorizing the Grant Application for Sidewalk Funds
from the Kentucky Transportation Enhancement Program
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-03 which would
approve the application to the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for assistance
under the Transportation Enhancement Programs (TEA-21) for 80% funding of a
sidewalk project along Madison Pike estimated at $184,750.00. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2009-R-03.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-03, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-03 – Approving Cincinnati Bell Cable Franchise – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-
03 that would grant and issue a competitive, non-exclusive franchise for a term
of twelve years to Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC. Mayor Moriconi
stated that the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky (TBNK)
resubmitted this ordinance with an amendment since the first reading, but that
the City Attorney has reviewed it and advises that the change was not
significant to warrant a new first reading. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2009-
O-03 a second reading.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Behler and
seconded by Council Member Little to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-03. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth submitted a written report to Council. He advised that he would be
meeting with the City Engineer to work on bids for a single-lane steel bridge
for Old Richardson Road near Crowe Road. He also reported that Ms. Brake has
applied for a grant for the proposed basketball courts in Memorial Park and is
working on a T21 grant for the proposed sidewalk project from Simon Kenton High
School to Shaw Road. He stated that he is looking into other infrastructure
projects that would fall under the federal stimulus packets for which the City
could apply for funding.
Mr. Groth stated that Kenton County will be holding their annual Spring Clean
Up from Friday, April 3rd through Sunday, April 5th and that the City’s annual
Easter Egg Hunt will be held in Memorial Park on Saturday, April 4th beginning
at Noon.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reminded everyone that Daylight Savings would commence on
Saturday.
Crowe Road Bridge Discussion
Council Member Bushong asked if the residents near Crowe Road/Richardson Road
have been notified. Mr. Groth advised that a letter was sent to the residents.
The City received a written reply signed by seven of the residents/property
owners, wherein they advised they were opposed to the closing of the bridge. A
discussion ensued regarding the legal process the City would have to take in
order to close the bridge. Mr. Deters suggested that the bridge be closed
temporarily in coordination with the bidding out of the replacement bridge. He
stated that the Police Chief has the authority to close the bridge on an
emergency basis for up to two weeks, without taking prior legal action, and to
protect the City from liability. Mr. Groth stated that he hoped to have the
bids out soon.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Little to authorize the City Attorney to begin legal proceedings to close the
bridge temporarily. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-
0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:58 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 6, 2009
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 6,
2009 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor
Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. An
invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the March 2, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on March 2, 2009. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi announced that the people registered to speak regarding the zone
change on Turkeyfoot Road would be allowed to address Council when the agenda
item is discussed on the floor.
Sanitation District No. 1 Regarding Rate Increase – Jeff Eger, General Manager
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Eger, General Manager of Sanitation District
No.1. He stated that Mr. Eger has been addressing the cities in Northern
Kentucky regarding the District’s rate increase. Mr. Eger advised the
District’s rate increase was effective on April 1st. He reported that the
District will be working on a plan to correct overflows and the deplorable
conditions of the underground infrastructure. He stated they will be addressing
the EPA’s twenty year plan to correct the overflow situation and that they will
deliver this program for one-third of the cost of the national average. He
stated that he wanted to assure everyone that they are working hard to manage
the rates, implement cost saving measures and acting in a progressive manner.
Mr. Eger stated he welcomed email messages with any questions the City has
regarding their rates and programs and would also be happy to meet with them
and the residents. Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Eger
Independence Strategic Action Committee Report – Rodney Crise & Chris
Reinersman
Mayor Moriconi directed Council’s attention to the four reports submitted by
ISAC in their council packets. He yielded the floor to ISAC Chairman Rodney
Crise.
Mr. Crise stated that ISAC has existed over one year now and reported they meet
monthly, as well as four sub-committees. He stated they have come up with some
guidelines of the Downtown Study conducted a couple years ago by the City. Mr.
Crise requested that the Council take some time in reviewing their
recommendations as contained in the reports so they could discuss in more
detail at a future meeting. He stated they will be requesting funding in the
City budget so they can begin implementing some of the recommendations in the
Downtown Study. Mr. Crise stated they have some short-term goals which include:
·   Begin establishing “branding” with the downtown “Courthouse Square”
·   Engage NKAPC in establishing zoning codes for the south gateway and central
core areas of the Study
Mayor Moriconi commented that the research and work performed so far by ISAC is
above and beyond his expectations. He stated they have put a lot of time and
work in these reports.
ISAC member, Chris Reinersman advised that they have been in discussions with
Kenton County Judge Executive Scott Kimmich to allow the Simon Kenton High
School Farmer’s Market to be held on the grounds of the Courthouse Square each
Saturday from the end of April through the end of October. He stated it may not
happen this year as they are still in discussions.
Mr. Crise advised the City could also apply for Renaissance grants to help fund
the re-development of the downtown area. City Administrator, Dan Groth
commented that the City would have to be designated as a Renaissance City in
order to qualify for grant funds and due to the size of Independence we would
be required to hire a Renaissance coordinator.
Mayor Moriconi thanked the gentlemen for their report and advised Council that
he would consider a special meeting so they would have more time to review the
reports and recommendation being submitted by ISAC.
Hickory Valley Subdivision – Potterhill Homes request for Waiver of Brick Wrap
on Houses – Andrew Temmel, Representative of Potterhill Homes
Mr. Andrew Temmel of Potterhill Homes addressed Council with a request to waive
a condition that was placed on the map amendment approval for the Hickory
Valley Subdivision, specifically the condition that all houses were to have a
first floor brick wrap. He stated that Potterhill Homes, previously Signature
Homes, purchased the remaining 135 lots from Centerline. He stated they are
requesting that the brick wrap condition be waived due to the unique
architecture designs of the Potterhill homes which provides more character to
the community.. He stated that a strong selling point of their houses is the
feature of energy efficiency which they feel is necessary to be competitive. He
stated this energy-star rating feature costs $4,000 per house and that plus the
cost of a brick wrap could have a negative impact on the marketing of the
houses, making them unaffordable to some consumers.
A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Temmel was asked if he was aware of the brick
wrap requirement when they purchased the lots from Centerline. He stated he was
aware of the condition. Council Member Behler commented that some of the
current residents in the subdivision are concerned that the Potterhill Homes
will be smaller in size and lower values of the established houses in that
community. Mr. Temmel responded that the prices of the houses are higher than
the Ryan Homes and they will be equal in square footage. It was pointed out to
Mr. Temmel that this is the third time a request has been presented to Council
to waive this brick wrap condition. Council Member Cook commented that an
additional $4,000 for brick wrap should not be a deterrent to a serious buyer.
Mr. Temmel responded that during the current economy the market is very
competitive and a sale can be lost over $1,000.
Mayor Moriconi ended the discussion by advising Mr. Temmel that there seems to
be a consensus that the Council has no interest in waiving the brick-wrap
building condition and wished him good luck.
Ratify Independence Village Stage II Development Plan - Buffalo Wild Wings
Restaurant
Ashley Commercial Group (ACG) representative Bill Kreutzjans Jr. addressed
Council regarding a Stage II Development Plan for the Independence Village for
the construction of a Buffalo Wild Wings restaurant. He stated they reviewed
the comments submitted by the NKAPC staff regarding the development plan and
stated they have responded to those concerns.
(The NKAPC has advised that the submitted Stage II Development Plan for the
Buffalo Wild Wings restaurant is consistent with the existing approved Stage I
Development Plan and meets the minimum requirements of the City’s Zoning
Ordinance except for five (5) deficiencies, those being: (1) outdoor patio was
not approved in the Stage I plan, (2) insufficient information on the enclosed
dumpster area, (3) two ground signs exceed the 40 square feet limit previously
approved, and an off-site ground sign that was not approved in the Stage I
plan, (4) submitted Stage II plan provides for three building facade signs,
black and white facade markings on all four building elevations and an LED
lighting band on all four building elevations which can be interpreted as
signs, all of which were not approved in the Stage I plan, and (5) a full
movement curb cut onto Madison Pike when a waiver had been previously granted
by KCPC for a right-turn-in and right-turn-out movement only, ADA curb ramps at
the intersections are not in accord with the required design and the curb,
gutter and sidewalk along Madison Pike is referenced to be in accord with city
standards rather than the Kenton County Subdivision Regulations.)
Mr. Kreutzjans stated the first issue the Planning Commission had was the
outdoor patio which was not part of the Stage I Plan, but BWW feels that
outdoor seating is an asset to this area. He advised that the front of the
building would face Madison Pike and the patio would face the direction of
Walgreen’s on Centennial Blvd. He stated another concern for the Planning
Commission was the monument signs. He stated they have actually proposed two of
the signs to be less that the forty feet which is permitted in this
development. He stated that Planning Commission also has interpreted the black
and white LED band mounted on the outside of the building as signage. Mr.
Kreutzjans stated that the black and white lighted banding is a component of
the building and trademark of the Buffalo Wings and feels this issue should not
be considered as signage. He stated the other issues were the ADA curb ramps ,
curb, gutter and sidewalk along Madison Pike which they have redesigned to come
into compliance with subdivision regulations.
Council Member Little initiated a discussion regarding this PUD development and
reminded Mr. Kreutzjans that when the City approved the revised development
plan last year one of the conditions imposed was that ten-percent of the
residential units had to be constructed within two years before any more
commercial lots could be developed. Mr. Kreutzjans stated that currently Ashley
Commercial Group (ACG) only owns the commercial lots. He stated they had a
contract with a residential builder which has fallen through and while they
have been actively searching for another condo developer they have not yet been
successful in doing so. Council Member Little stated that he is concerned that
they are only interested in commercial development and not pursuing the
residential part of the development. He said the entire site has been graded
with no developer for the residential area and now the Walnut Hall residents
are looking at a mud hole. Mr. Darren Eyre of One-Eleven Engineering stated
that the residential will be developed when they get a buyer. Council Member
Little stated that ten-percent will not be completed in two years with only
twelve months left in this time frame. He asked why the lake on the site was
drained. Mr. Eyre advised the lake had to be drained to put in the storm sewer
and grade the site properly.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the City wants to be sensitive to the residents
on Walnut Hall Drive and ensure that the site stays residential and to provide
a buffer from the commercial area. He stated that the clock is ticking. Council
Member Little commented that the intent of the ordinance was to build the
commercial and residential simultaneously and the City has an obligation to the
citizens, particularly to those of Walnut Hall Drive. Council Member Yeager
concurred.
Mr. Kreutzjans stated that this is two different issues and asked that they did
not hold up the development of the Buffalo Wings restaurant because of the
residential part of this site.
A lengthy discussion ensued. Council members were concerned that due to lack of
residential development the developers were possibly circumventing the
simultaneous development of this PUD zone by focusing on the commercial lots.
Council Member Little expressed concern that the developer is overpromising and
under-delivering.
City Attorney Mr. Deters advised that the City could opt to vote this
development down over the residential unit concern, but that he feels the City
would lose if challenged. He stated that the City has to wait until the two
years’ time frame has expired and not act ahead of that time limit.
Mr. Eric Deters, owner of Bulldog’s Roadhouse restaurant approached the podium
to comment on this issue. He stated that Ashley cannot possibly accomplish ten
percent of a residential development over the next twelve months. He stated
that he does not feel that the City can support three “Wings” restaurants and
the solution to this is for Council to vote down this Stage II development plan
and went on to assert that he would file a lawsuit to stop this process if
approved by the Council. City Attorney Mr. Deters advised that Council has the
option to vote this down but felt that decision would not be supported and able
to stand up if challenged. He stated that Council should wait until the two
year deadline runs out.
Council Member Yeager asked if Ashley Commercial Group purchased the entire
site. Mr. Eyre stated they were originally going to buy all the lots but ended
up purchasing the three commercial lots. Mr. Kreutzjans stated they originally
had an agreement with Ameritech Homes, but that Ameritech pulled out. Mr. Eyre
stated there were contingencies in the agreement.
Council Member Franzen commented that even if Council does not approve the
Stage II plan that will not change the situation with the residential part of
the development. She stated she is ready to vote on this, but admonished One-
Eleven by stating they should not return to this Council requesting another
commercial development until they have ten-percent of the residential
completed.
City Attorney Mr. Deters expressed concern that One-Eleven and/or Ashley
Commercial Group may not have actually had a valid contract/agreement with a
residential builder as they stated a year ago.
Council Member Yeager asked why the ponds on the development site had been
drained. Mr. Eyre advised they had to move the existing storm sewer and will
relocate the pond as part of the grading process. She also asked if they could
install the residential buffer now. Mr. Eyre stated that buffer is included
with lot 11. City Attorney Mr. Deters stated the buffer should be installed
before Buffalo Wild Wings gets a certificate of occupancy.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to override the staff recommendation of
the NKAPC and approve the Stage II development plan for the construction of
Buffalo Wild Wings restaurant, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was
called and answered with three ayes from Council Members Franzen, Behler and
Cook and three no votes cast by Council Members Bushong, Little and Yeager.
Mayor Moriconi stated that since the developer still has twelve months to get
ten-percent of the residential parcel completed that he would vote in favor of
approving this Stage II plan. Motion carried 4-3.
A discussion ensued as to whether or not a Stage II development plan is
considered a zoning issue. City Attorney Mr. Deters advised that the Mayor
cannot break a tie on a zoning issue, but questioned if this qualifies as a
zoning issue. Council Member Little asked the City Attorney if the Mayor’s vote
does not count then would the NKAPC recommendation to disapprove the Stage II
Plan become operational by law. City Attorney Mr. Deters replied yes. A brief
discussion ensued wherein several people gave their opinion on whether or not
the Mayor could vote on this issue. City Attorney, Jed Deters advised he would
officially find out tomorrow if the Mayor’s vote was valid.
Proposed Ordinance – Regarding Map Amendment (KCPC 1957R) for 11-Acre Area at
Turkeyfoot Road and Richardson Road (UDF) – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi announced that several people have registered to speak on this
issue. Mr. Joseph Hayes was the applicant on behalf of Eastgate Village Ltd.
and made the presentation to the Council. Mayor Moriconi asked how many
properties would be acquired by the developer. Mr. Hayes stated that only two
properties with houses would be purchased as the rest of the property was
vacant land. He stated they have an agreement with the Wren family, but no
agreement has been made with the McGee’s yet. He stated this development is
unique as they have a tenant (UDF) ready to go into the one building in the
development plan. He stated the other buildings on the development plan are
concept drawings. He stated the development site is for the north and south
sides of the Turkeyfoot/Richardson Road intersection, but that they would not
develop the north side until they get tenants. The south side would contain the
UDF store.
Mayor Moriconi gave privileges of the floor to three residents who were present
to speak on this issue.
Robert Morehead, 47 Richardson Road – voiced his opposition to approving the
map amendment by stating that everything in this area is residential and they
will no longer have any privacy at night. He stated that when the Eagle
development on Turkeyfoot Road was approved, it was his understanding that UDF
was going there. He stated he is also concerned that there isn’t space on this
development site to put in an adequate buffer zone between the residential and
commercial areas. He is concerned about the commercial sprawl in this area of
Turkeyfoot Road and doesn’t see why another eleven acres needs to be zoned
commercial when the Eagle development has thirty acres available. He stated
that traffic congestion is already a problem. In closing, he commented that the
Kenton County Planning Commission voted unanimously to disapprove this map
amendment.
Steve Rickey, 4081 Richardson Road – stated he was not in favor of this
development, feels it is a bad idea and will be able to see this development
from his back yard.
Betty McGee, 4013 Turkeyfoot Road – Ms. McGee stated she is a twenty-year
resident of Independence. She stated she met with Mr. Hayes and he advised they
do not want to purchase her property. She asked the Council to review the taped
meeting on the public hearing held by the Planning Commission. She stated that
not one member of the Planning Commission was in favor of this development. She
also reminded Council that the connector road from the Eagle development was
eliminated. Council Member Franzen responded that the City eliminated that road
at the urging of the citizens and not because the City did not want future
commercial adjacent to the Eagle development site. Ms. McGee also cited that
this proposal presents mobility and safety issues for the area and the school
buses. She stated this plan is not consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and
there will be a non-conforming island left in the road.
David Wren, 4011 Turkeyfoot Road – stated he was in favor of the development as
his house doesn’t fit in that area any longer since the commercial development
is changing the area.
Mr. Hayes advised Council that Mr. Lanny Holbrook owns the south side property
of this development and that they have not purchased the two additional parcels
as that is contingent on the approval of the zone change.
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor to Council for questions. Attorney for Eastgate
Ltd, Jerry Dusing responded to Council Member Franzen’s question about
developing the south side and not the north side. He stated there is a minimum
size needed to apply for the NC (neighborhood commercial) zone so they need
both sides to be eligible for the zone. He stated the north side zone is R-
3 which is the same as the adjacent apartment buildings and feels this zone
change would prevent the apartments from expanding in the future. He stated the
logical zone for this area would NC. Mr. Dusing commented that the merits of
the development, as outlined on page seven of the KCPC recommendation, were
derailed from the get-go at the public hearing of the Planning Commission. He
also said that the City had approved the amended Stage I development plan for
the Eagle site that permitted the removal of the connector road.
Council Member Little asked if Lanny Holbrook, who currently owns the
development site was in favor of this zone change. Mr. Hayes responded that
they have a contract to purchase the property from Mr. Holbrook if and when
then zone change is approved. Mr. Deters commented that it would be a package
deal.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters advised Council they have ninety
days to take some action on this. He stated they could take no action on this
recommendation from the Planning Commission, in which case their recommendation
to disapprove the zone change would in effect by operation of law, or the
Council could override their recommendation and approve the map amendment.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to override the disapproval recommendation
of the Planning Commission and to approve the submitted map amendment (KCPC
1957R) changing an approximate 11-acre area located at the northeast and
southeast corners of the intersection of Turkeyfoot Road with Richardson Road
from R-1C and R-3 to NC, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Although a roll
call vote is not usually taken on a first reading of an ordinance Mayor
Moriconi requested a roll call or voice vote to see if there was a consensus of
the Council to move forward with the motion to override the KCPC
recommendation. No roll call; all ayes and the motion carried. Mr. Deters gave
the proposed ordinance to approve the map amendment a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Closing a Portion of Richardson Road, Specifically the
Bridge Thereon – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
close a portion of Richardson Road, specifically the bridge area. He reported
that the City has received $175,000 from the State to be used for repairs or
toward the replacement of the bridge. He stated the bridge would need to be
closed during repairs or replacement. Mr. Groth commented that core drilling
would be conducted to see if the area can handle a steel bridge. It may be
possible that a second reading of this ordinance would not occur if the results
of the core drilling indicate that the area will not support a steel bridge.
Council Member Franzen asked if the residents have been notified of the
closing. Mr. Groth advised that if and when the time comes to close the bridge
for repairs/replacement the residents will be informed in advance. Mr. Deters
gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Amendment to Ordinance No. 2003-O-04 – Relating to
Curbside Trash Pickup & Providing for Property Lien for Non-Payment of Penalty
for Non-Compliance – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2003-O-04 that regulates the times for garbage can
placement at the curb, requiring garbage containers to have lids. He stated the
amendment includes setting times for the removal of junk, trash and debris
placed on the curb for pickup, provides for posting notice of violations and
setting a monetary penalty for violations and also provides for a property lien
for non-payment of the imposed penalties. Mayor Moriconi advised this proposed
amendment is a direct result of taking the trash assessment off the property
tax bills. He stated that the City has found this amendment necessary due to
the many complaints called in regarding excessive trash accumulating at the
curb because residents have not paid Rumpke for their trash pickup. This
amendment will provide the City staff some recourse when we have to go out and
remove the trash. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mayor Moriconi commented that he has received letters from residents regarding
the recent newspaper article that reported Rumpke’s rate for the City of
Florence was quite a bit less than the rate being paid by Independence
residents. He stated that the contract with Florence includes commercial pickup
as well as the residential pickup so the businesses are basically subsidizing
the residential cost. He stated that on the surface it may appear unequal, but
Independence does not have the amount of commercial properties that would allow
this lower rate here.
Proposed Ordinance– Approving Two Zoning Text Amendments (KCPC No. 1952R)
Modifying the NSC Zone Relating to Bakery Goods Stores and Music & Amplifying
Systems in Outdoor Dining Areas – New 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading an ordinance that would accept
the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission for a zoning text
amendment that would modify the NSC (Neighborhood Shopping Center) zone that
would allow bakery and bakery goods stores to sell their products elsewhere off
the premises where they are baked and to override the recommendation to
disapprove outdoor dining areas, as a conditional use, to have entertainment,
music and sound amplifying systems. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
second reading.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt the proposed ordinance, seconded by
Council Member Little. Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for discussion before
voting on the ordinance. Council Member Bushong expressed concern about
allowing the amplifying systems close to residential property and suggested
that a distance restriction be imposed in the ordinance. City Attorney, Mr. Jed
Deters advised that because this will be a conditional use, a business would
have to apply to go before the Board of Adjustment to get approval and the
Board could impose distance restrictions. Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld
voiced her agreement with Mr. Deters. Mr. Deters advised that imposing distance
restrictions can become problematic and in some zones it won’t be possible.
Council Member Bushong stated that he doesn’t want to allow blaring music
within a certain distance and would feel better if the city would impose a
distance restriction in the ordinance.
Further discussion centered on deciding an appropriate distance restriction.
City Administrator Dan Groth commented that he would recommend not imposing a
distance restriction and if a business was permitted this conditional use by
the Board of Adjustment and then the music sound level prompted complaints from
the residents, the City would then just use the nuisance ordinance to resolve
the complaint(s).
Mr. Eric Deters, who had requested this text amendment so that he could have
outdoor music on the patio of his Bulldog’s Roadhouse restaurant (formerly the
Courthouse restaurant) commented that he planned to have acoustical, relaxing
type of music and that he would only hire bands during the holiday weekends,
such as the City’s July 4th two-day celebration. Council Member Behler stated
that she felt there would be less chance of the music becoming a nuisance from
acoustical music. Council Member Cook stated that five hundred (500) feet would
eliminate Bob’s Family restaurant from outdoor music. Council Member Franzen
stated she is not in favor of imposing stipulations on one restaurant and not
another and that the ordinance will affect the entire City, not just Mr.
Deters’ restaurant.
City Attorney Mr. Deters, suggested adding the new language to include a
distance restriction to the ordinance, but then they should do a new first
reading of the ordinance. Eric Deters expressed concern that a new first
reading would delay his application to the Board of Adjustment for the
conditional use by another month. City Attorney Mr. Deters commented that the
Mayor could approve the outdoor music for the holiday special event.
Council Member Little expressed his concern that imposing a distance
requirement could penalize some neighborhood commercial areas like the Cherokee
and Beechgrove plazas. He stated that he believes the zone has an impact and
that a five acre development would be more intrusive than a forty acre
development. He asked how the nuisance ordinance would take effect. Mr. Groth
responded by a reasonable person test wherein it only takes one person to be
affected.
A discussion ensued about adding a 200 feet distance requirement language in
the ordinance. Council Member Cook commented that she feels that a distance
requirement will cause problems. Council consensus was to add the new language
and have a new first reading of the ordinance. The City Attorney gave the
ordinance a new first reading.
Approving Interlocal Agreement with Kenton County for the Collection of
Municipal Occupational License Fees
Mayor Moriconi resubmitted to Council the Interlocal Agreement with Kenton
County for the collection of occupational license fees and taxes. He stated
approval of this Agreement was tabled at the March meeting. The City
Administrator was able to speak to a representative at the County office who
answered a few questions posed by the Council at the last meeting and the
answers have been conveyed to the Council.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Yeager to authorize the Mayor to enter into the
Agreement with the County for the collection of the city occupational license
fees and taxes. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote
cast by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried 5-1.
Resolution No. 2009-R-04 – Designating an Applicant Agent for FEMA Assistance
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-04 that would
authorize him as the City’s agent for FEMA for all matters pertaining to
Federal disaster assistance. He reported that the City has applied for
reimbursement for expenses incurred from the ice storm in February. He stated
that the City is applying for a reimbursement of approximately $45,000.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-04. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-03 – Re-Appointments to the Board of Adjustment
Mayor Moriconi presented to the Council a Municipal Order that would re-appoint
members to the Board of Adjustment. The members are Jim Brewer, Eric Dupps and
Darrel Herald. Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2009-
MO-03, seconded by Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered with
five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth submitted a written report to the Council. He commented that the new
Senior Center director is doing a good job and the membership is up to 175
seniors.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported that the City anticipates receiving approximately
$45,000 in reimbursement from FEMA for expenses from the ice storm in February.
He said a check should be forthcoming.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Bushong announced that Independence resident, Mary Beth Hall who
is a breast cancer survivor has written a new book “Lessons From a Bald Chick”
which helps people understand what cancer patients go through and how to do it
with a positive attitude.
Council Member Franzen congratulated the basketball teams at Summit View Middle
School for winning the Conference championship games. She also acknowledge the
winning teams at Twenhofel School too.
Council Member Cook acknowledged four girls from Summit View Middle School for
being chosen for the Children’s All-State Choir. She stated these four students
were chosen from 212 children statewide.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:54 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 4, 2009
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 4,
2009 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor
Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. An
invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the April 6, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on May 6, 2009. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Presentation by Commonwealth Attorney Rob Sanders
Mayor Moriconi introduced Rob Sanders, Commonwealth Attorney who presented a
SpeechGuard multilingual speech-to-speech translator to the City. He stated the
Commonwealth Attorney’s office is providing these devices to a few of the
cities in Northern Kentucky for use in the police departments and that these
devices retail for $1,000. Mr. Sanders advised that these devices assist police
officers when engaging with non-English speakers. He stated that the translator
device can instantly translate words or phrases in a number of different
languages. He stated the Miranda warning can also be given with this device to
non-English speakers. Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Sanders for this device.
Privileges of the Floor
Brandon Perry addressed Council with a request to support a zoning text
amendment application that would allow a youth center as a conditional use in
an NSC zone. He stated that his family purchased the old Kenton County Library
building on Taylor Mill Road about a year ago and they would like to convert
the building into a teen/youth recreation center. He said they would cater to
13-18 year olds and have recreational activities such as Wii, Wi-Fi access,
ping pong, air hockey, pool tables and indoor cornhole. A brief discussion
ensued. Council Members asked how the center would be funded, if supervision
would be provided, what organization the center would be affiliated with and
what their business plan would be to sustain the center.
Mr. Perry stated that they would be interested in obtaining grants to fund the
center, but at this time they are considering charging a monthly membership fee
to operate the facility. He stated they are not affiliated with any
organization. He stated that he plans to work with the youth but that he would
look to engage some mentors for the teens not just hire workers. He also hopes
to get volunteers to man the center as well. Some Council Members commented
that if the details can be worked out that it would be great to have a youth
center in the City.
Resolution No. 2009-R-06 – Authorizing Application for Zoning Text Amendment
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-06 supporting a
zoning text amendment that would modify Section 10.15(c) of the Zoning
Ordinance to add as a conditional use Community Centers, seconded by Council
Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Jeremy Deters 1926 Appeals Court, Independence – addressed Council with a
request to support a zoning text amendment to add, offices, medical, dental and
clinics as permitted uses in the Neighborhood Shopping Center zone. He stated
that the Towne Center has Oxford Physical Therapy Center as a prospective
tenant but that medical/clinic is not currently a permitted use in the
neighborhood shopping center zone.
Resolution No. 2009-R-07 – Authorizing Application for Zoning Text Amendment
Council Member Little moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-07 supporting a
zoning text amendment that would modify Section 10.15 of the Zoning Ordinance
that would allow offices, medical dental and clinics as permitted uses in the
NSC zone. Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ratify Independence Village Stage II Development Plan - Buffalo Wild Wings
Restaurant
Mayor Moriconi reminded Council that at the last meeting he broke the tie vote
to approve the Stage II development plan for the Independence Village for the
construction of a Buffalo Wild Wings restaurant. He advised that after the
meeting he was informed that a Stage II plan is considered an extension of
zoning and as such, and in accordance with state law, the mayor is not eligible
to vote on a zoning issue. He asked Council how they wanted to proceed, i.e.
take a new vote or let the tie vote stand.
Council Member Franzen moved to override the disapproval recommendation of the
Planning Commission and approve the Stage II development Plan for the
construction of a Buffalo Wild Wings restaurant, seconded by Council Member
Behler. A discussion ensued.
Council Member Little called for a point of order. He stated that according to
Kentucky state law the Council has already acted on this issue and it reverts
back to the Planning Commission’s recommendation which was to disapprove the
Stage II plan. He stated he consulted with the Kentucky League of Cities legal
department and quoted an Attorney General opinion.
Jerry Dusing, legal counsel for Ashley Development commented that Council
should have the opportunity to vote on this matter again in light of the
knowledge that the mayor cannot vote. He went on to say that his law firm does
work for the League of Cities and that depending on how a question is phrased
can have an effect on the answer that is provided. Mr. Dusing advised that the
Planning Commission gave the revised development plan a second review on April
23rd after the last Council meeting held on April 6th, and their response to
the deficiencies noted in the first review is what is before the Council
tonight for a vote. City Attorney Mr. Deters commented that the most recent
recommendation from the Planning Commission still has two unresolved issues
with the development plan. Mr. Dusing stated that the two unresolved issues are
the outdoor patio, which they did not approve as it was not on the Stage I
plan. He stated it was not on the Stage I plan as it was unknown at that time
that a future restaurant would want to have an outdoor dining area. He stated
the second unresolved issue is the LED façade lighting on the Buffalo Wings
building, and again at the time of the Stage I plan a specific building was not
identified. Mr. Dusing commented that he feels these are minor changes that
were not anticipated and not known at the time the Stage I plan was submitted
for a zone change.
Council Member Yeager stated she did not have a problem with this commercial
building or the desired outdoor dining patio. She stated her main concern is
that the residential development is not moving forward and she cannot ignore
that fact. Council Member Little concurred. He stated he feels that the
developer has misrepresented this to the City. He stated he has reviewed the
recordings of the meeting last year wherein the City Council expressed concerns
about the residential side of the development being stalled. He stated he feels
that the Planning Commission disapproves of an outdoor patio because this is a
PUD zone and the restaurant would be too close to residential to permit such an
area. He read direct quotes from the meetings last year wherein the developer
asserted that all lots on the north side of the development were sold. He
stated that one of the conditions the City imposed last year on this
development was that 10% of the residential development had to be started
within two years, which the City Attorney advised against as he felt this
condition would be difficult to enforce.
Council Member Behler commented that she is not happy that the development of
the residential section has not been started, but she hears comments from
residents all the time that they want more family restaurants. And with the
current economy, it may be some time before a developer is able to start on the
residential units.
Council Member Cook stated that she feels the City needs to be realistic about
the current economy and focus on the commercial revenue base. She stated she
feels if the City makes it difficult for businesses to get established here
then they may look elsewhere.
Council Member Franzen expressed concern that if this development plan is voted
down then the City will be left with a mud hole which will serve no purpose.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi called for a vote. Roll was
called and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members
Little and Yeager. Motion carried 4-2 in favor.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-04 – Amendment to Ordinance No. 2003-O-04 – Relating to
Curbside Trash Pickup & Providing for Property Lien for Non-Payment of Penalty
for Non-Compliance – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-04 that
would amend Ordinance No. 2003-O-04 regulating garbage pickup/containers by
adding times for the removal of junk, trash, and debris placed on the curb for
pick-up and providing for the posting of a notice of violations, setting a
monetary penalty for the violation and providing for a property lien for non-
payment of the penalty. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2009-O-04.
Council Member Little moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-04, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-05 – Override and Approve a Zoning Map Amendment (KCPC
1957R) for 11-Acre Area at Turkeyfoot Road and Richardson Road (UDF) – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-05 that
would override the disapproval recommendation from the Planning Commission and
give approval to a map amendment for an 11-acre area located at the northeast
and southeast corners of the intersection of Turkeyfoot Raod with Richardson
Road from R-1C and R-3 to NC (neighborhood commercial). Mayor Moriconi advised
that several people signed in to address Council about this proposal. He
advised everyone that the City could not hear or take into consideration any
new information that was not presented at the Kenton County Planning
Commission’s public hearing. City attorney Mr. Deters explained to Council the
three options they have regarding their consideration of a proposed map
amendment one being that if they wanted to hear new information that the City
could hold its own public hearing which would require prior public notice in
accordance with state law.
Lynn Morehead, 4070 Richardson Road, Independence – addressed Council to voice
her opposition to the zone change for the 11-acre area at the intersection of
Turkeyfoot Road and Richardson Road. She stated that the Planning Commission
staff had issues with every aspect of the proposed development on this site and
it was unanimously voted down at the public meeting of the Kenton County
Planning Commission. She stated her property will have direct
view of the gas pumps and canopy of the UDF building. She expressed concern
that the thirty-acre Independence Gateway development by Eagle just one block
north of this development site does not have one tenant yet, so there is
already plenty of commercial land in this area. She stated she would like to
hear why the City would be in favor of this development.
Mayor Moriconi stated that Betty McGee and Robert Morehead signed in to speak
again this month. He yielded the floor to Ms. McGee and asked that she keep her
comments to three minutes.
Betty McGee, 4013 Turkeyfoot Road – Ms. McGee stated that she feels the focus
is on the development of the south side – UDF- and not on the north side of the
development or the Lily Drive remnant that will remain. She stated that the
developer is not interested in buying her out and feels the City should require
them to acquire all of Lilly Drive. She stated that three businesses will have
to access the Lily Drive cul-de-sac to get to the development.
City Attorney Mr. Deters advised that the Council that when making their
decision whether or not to approve this zone change should only consider the
recommendation of the Planning Commission.
A discussion ensued with the developers’ representative Joe Hayes (5500 Cody
Road, Independence) regarding the Lily Drive cul-de-sac. Mr. Hayes advised that
if they could come to terms with Ms. McGee regarding the purchase of her
property they would be able to eliminate Lily Drive. Further discussion
centered on room left for school busses to turn around on a Lily Drive cul-de-
sac and/or possible egress/ingress off of Richardson Road if Lily Drive could
be eliminated and approval for a curb cut could be obtained from the
Transportation Department. But all properties on Lily Drive would have to be
purchased by the developer to eliminate the street.
Council Member Little asked the time frame for erecting the UDF building. UDF
representative John Johnson advised that it would take the developer 3-4 months
to get the site pad-ready and then five months for their contractor to
construct the building. It would be the end of 2009 or early 2010 before the
store would be open for business. He stated that the weather also effects the
timetable for the construction. There was a brief discussion about imposing a
timetable condition on the approval of the zone change. City Attorney Mr.
Deters advised against this stating that the City could impose conditions but
not contingencies.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to give
Ordinance No. 2009-O-05 a second reading. Mr. Deters read the ordinance to
override the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission and
approve the map amendment based on the erroneous assumption that the City did
not want Lily Drive to be a through street to the adjoining Eagle development.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-05, seconded by
Council Member Behler. A discussion ensued regarding imposing conditions on the
approval of the map amendment and the following conditions were agreed upon by
all parties involved:
1)   The buffer zone between Amhurst and the south section of the subject
property and the buffer zone along Old Richardson Road be placed prior to the
issuance of any Certificate of Occupancy for the first structure erected in
this development.
2)   The remainder of the south section be graded, seeded, strawed, and grass
maintained until additional development occurs.
3)   The buffer zone, on the north section of the subject property, be
completed, pursuant to regulations, prior to any Certificate of Occupancy being
issued on the first structure constructed.
4)   The remainder of the north section be graded, seeded, strawed, and grass
maintained until additional development occurs.
Council Member Franzen also asked Mr. Hayes to work with Ms. McGee to come to
an agreement to purchase her property so she would not be the only residential
property left on Lily Drive.
Discussion ended and roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried 5-1 to approve the map
amendment.
Defeated on Second Reading - Ordinance No. 2009-O-06 – Approving Zoning Text
Amendments (KCPC No. 1952R) Modifying the NSC Zone Relating to Bakery Goods
Stores and Music & Amplifying Systems in Outdoor Dining Areas – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-06 that
would approve a zoning text amendment modifying the neighborhood shopping
center (NSC) zone that would 1) allow bakery and bakery goods stores to sell
their products elsewhere than from the premises where they are baked, and 2)
override the recommendation of the Planning Commission and approve an amendment
that would allow outdoor dining areas to have entertainment, music and sound
amplifying systems. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2009-O-06 a second reading.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-06, seconded by
Council Member Little. There was no discussion; roll was called resulting in a
tie vote of 3-3. Ayes were cast by Council Members Bushong, Little and Yeager.
Nays were cast by Council Members Behler, Cook and Franzen. City Attorney Mr.
Deters advised that the Mayor could not vote to break the tie, so the motion
fails.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2009 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will
adopt a supplement to the Code of Ordinances. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Final Annexation of Right of Way Areas along the New SR17
– 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
finalize the annexation of the right of way areas along the new section of
State Route 17. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2009-R-05 – In Support of Residential Substance Abuse Facility
in Northern Kentucky
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-05 that would support
an adolescent residential substance abuse facility to serve the youth of
Northern Kentucky. Mr. Groth stated this resolution would be presented to state
legislators and other city officials in Northern Kentucky to gain support for
building a treatment center to support the eight counties in Northern Kentucky.
Council Member Yeager asked why the center would be built in Grant County.
Council Member Behler responded that land has been donated and that the Grant
County/Williamstown area is actually the most central location of the eight
counties.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-05, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth submitted a written report. He also asked Council if they would like
him to speak on behalf of the City at the Kenton County Planning Commission
regarding the proposed zone change at the corner of Taylor Mill Road and Senour
Road. He stated that the land is actually in the city limits of Covington, but
borders Independence. He stated a developer is seeking an Industrial zone for
the property. Council agreed that he should voice the City’s opposition to the
requested zone change at the KCPC public hearing, on behalf of Independence.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-04 – Approving Mayoral Appointment to ISAC
Mayor Moriconi presented Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-04 that would support his
appointments to the Independence Strategic Action Committee (ISAC). He would
like to appoint Scott Wells and Brian Davis to the Committee.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-04, seconded
by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one
no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Mayor Moriconi reported that the City of Independence tied with the City of
Union for the Green City Award presented by Sanitation District No. 1 for
having the most rainwater barrel purchased by the city residents. He stated he
received a letter of recognition from the Sanitation District.
Mayor Moriconi recognized Assistant Police Chief Dave Nichols’ son who has
accepted a full scholarship to Stanford University.
Mayor Moriconi announced that a ceremony for the National Day of Prayer would
be held on Thursday at 6:30 p.m. at the Memorial Park Amphitheater.
Mayor Moriconi announced that the intersection of Bristow Road and Independence
Road is now a 3-way stop.
Council Member Behler encouraged everyone to visit the Farmers Market being
held at the Courthouse Square every Saturday from 8:30 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. now
through October.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:53 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 18, 2009
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, May 18, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409
Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi announced this special meeting of the City Council was called to
discuss the following agenda items:
·   Independence Strategic Action Committee (ISAC) Report - Chairman Rodney
Crise & Chris Reinersman
·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopt Amended 2008-2009 Budget – 1st Reading
·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopt 2009-2010 Budget – 1st Reading
·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopt Pay & Classification Plan – 1st Reading
·   Resolution No. 2009-R-08 - Approving A Homeland Security Grant Application
for Building Department Equipment
·   Executive Session in accordance with KRS 61.810 (if necessary)
·   Adjournment
Independence Strategic Action Committee (ISAC) Report - Chairman Rodney Crise &
Chris Reinersman
Mayor Moriconi stated that a primary purpose of this special meeting was to
give the Independence Strategic Action Committee members an opportunity to
present to Council reports on various projects on which they have been working.
He thanked the members and stated he appreciates all their time and efforts.
Rodney Crise, Chairman of ISAC, provided an overview of the Small Area Study
the City conducted a couple years ago which has been the foundation for their
work. Two of the recommendations of the Study was to form a strategic action
committee and hire a City Administrator, both of which have been accomplished.
He stated they have focused their efforts on a few areas of implementation and
thus formed four sub-committees which are Historic Preservation,
Beautification, Design Guidelines and Zoning Updates. He stated that last year
the Committee conducted a citizen survey and received 365 responses and they
had a booth at the July 4th Celebration to get the word out about their
committee and solicit new members. Additional areas of discussion this past
year include the need for the City to provide funds in the annual budget so
they could conduct surveys, purchase wayfinding signage, etc. and the
establishment of a tree board. He stated they have also discussed pursuing a
form-based zoning code which would ensure that new development would be
appropriate to community vision or existing character, which would approach
guidelines per the Study. He stated that NKAPC stand ready to assist their
efforts in adopting a form-based zoning code. Mr. Crice also reported that they
have submitted a Wayfinding and Signage Plan which would establish a City brand
and sense of identity. He stated they have proposed a strategy for the signage
program and made recommendations for project phasing on page ten of the
Wayfinding and Signage report.
In closing Mr. Crice stated the committee is proposing three recommendations to
the Council: 1) establish a budget of $10,000 - $15,000 per year to fund
consultant fees, capital improvements, signage, etc.; 2) adopt a Resolution to
re-name the area around the courthouse as “Courthouse Square”, and 3) engage
the NKAPC staff to draft a form-based zoning code for the City.
Mayor Moriconi commented that his proposed 2009/2010 budget contains a $10,000
line item account for a monument sign at McCullum and SR17. He questioned the
Committee’s recommendation to install another sign close to that one. A lengthy
discussion ensued with the Mayor and Council regarding the Committee’s
recommendations and reports they submitted. Council members liked the signage
and wayfinding plan but some expressed concern with the cost and suggested it
would have to be distributed over a period of several years. Re-naming the area
around the courthouse was also discussed in depth with Council Member Yeager
expressing concern about separate identities for the County and City
governments. Another topic of discussion was the establishment of a TIF (tax
increment financing) District that could be used as a recruiting tool to get
businesses to locate in the downtown business area. A commercial asset analysis
report was presented by Dr. Gary A. Mattson which is very detailed, but Council
Member Behler commented there was no mention in the report of the present
economic downturn. ISAC members stated they discussed this and are trying to
take a “glass one-half full” perspective as there are no great solutions.
Mayor Moriconi commented that these reports are great work done by volunteers.
He suggested that if Council had questions of Dr. Mattson’s report that he
would get those questions to him.
Chris Reinersman, member of ISAC, reported on the Historic Preservation sub-
committee’s work. He stated they met with long-time residents to get their
memories recorded. He advised they got great information which was taped and
TBNK will compile the tapes, edit them and put a video together for the City.
It will be made available on the City website and public library. He said they
are working hard on getting more events in the old downtown area. They were
able to convince the Simon Kenton High School’s Farmers Market to move to the
Courthouse location. The committee would also like to see some building façade
and streetscape improvements in the area. They will look into possible grants
that might be available to fund the projects.
Mr. Paul Metzger of ISAC reported they are proposing that a Steering Committee
be established to oversee the completion of the various projects they would
like to see implemented.
Mr. Crice introduced two new members of ISAC – Scott Wells and Brian Davis. Mr.
Crice stated they will replace members that had to resign.
The Council Members thanked the ISAC members for all their hard work and
impressive reports. Mayor Moriconi commented that the reports were very
detailed and organized. He also asked Council to begin thinking about adopting
an official resolution in the coming months to adopt a name for the downtown
area.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopt Amended 2008-2009 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend the 2008/09 budget. He asked Council if they had any
questions. There being no discussion, Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopt 2009-2010 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt a budget for the 2009/2010 fiscal year. In his prepared budget
message he stated that this budget would provide important infrastructure
improvements for streets such as Carrie Way and the replacement of the Crowe
Road bridge. He stated that core samples taken from the bridge came back
positive and bids will soon be requested for the tear down of the current
bridge and the construction of a new single lane steel bridge. His prepared
budget message also stated that the proposed budget would provide for matching
funds should the City be awarded the grants for sidewalks in the vicinity of
Simon Kenton High School and new basketball courts in Memorial Park. Mayor
Moriconi asked Council if they had any questions before the first reading.
Council Member Little commented that he would like to budget funds to have an
overhead projector/screen installed in the Council Chambers. He said it could
run as much as $10,000.00, but believes it could be a benefit to everyone and
would be available when developers make presentations to the Council. Mr. Groth
advised he could get a cost estimate together before the second reading of the
budget.
Council Member Little stated that he is impressed with the work that ISAC has
done and would like to see an initial investment in the budget so the Committee
could move forward with their projects. Mr. Groth stated that the proposed
budget has a $10,000 line item to begin purchasing signage as recommended by
ISAC. He stated that if a TIF (tax increment financing) district is established
next year then it could be in the 2010/11 budget. Council Member Little said he
did not want to see the Committee’s plan die for lack of funding. Mayor
Moriconi suggested the $10,000 allotment in the proposed budget could be used
for a City monument sign and the historic survey.
Discussion among the Council Members then centered on options to generate
revenue to help fund the recommendations presented in the reports submitted by
ISAC. Revenue sources discussed included a restaurant tax, unit fee for rental
property and alcohol license fees.
There being no further discussion about the proposed budget, Mr. Deters gave
the ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopt Pay & Classification Plan – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will
adopt a Pay and Classification Plan for the 2009/2010 fiscal year. There being
no questions or comments from the Council Members, Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance.
Resolution No. 2009-R-08 - Approving A Homeland Security Grant Application for
Building Department Equipment
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-08 that would
authorize the application for a grant from the Office of Homeland Security and
entering into an agreement for said grant if awarded to the City. Mayor
Moriconi advised the City would be applying for 100% funding, so there would be
no matching portion from the City. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2009-R-08.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-08, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Behler moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:31 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 1, 2009
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 1, 2009
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 1,
2009 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor
Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. An
invocation was given by Council Member Mike Little. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Margaret Cook,
Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim Bushong was
absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters. Mayor Moriconi announced
that he would like to change the order of the agenda items as Council Member
Franzen needed to leave the meeting early to attend her son’s Honors Night at
school. He stated he would like to present the second readings of the
ordinances to adopt the amended 2008-09 budget and proposed 2009-10 budgets.
There was no objection from the Council to amend the order of the agenda items.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-06 – Adopt Amended 2008-2009 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-06 to
approve the amended 2008-2009 budget. Mr. Deters read the Ordinance.
Council member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-06, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Mr. Groth advised that since the Memorial Park
improvements would not be done in June, $5000 was added to the park
improvements line item. There being no discussion roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-07 – Adopt 2009-2010 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-07 to
approve the proposed budget for the 2009-2010 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read the
Ordinance.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-07, seconded by
Council Member Behler. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
At this time Council Member Franzen excused herself from the meeting to attend
a personal matter.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-08 – Adopting the 2008 Supplement to the Code of
Ordinances – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-08 to adopt
a supplement to the City’s code of ordinances as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2009-O-08.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-08, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
4-0.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-09 – Final Annexation of Right of Way Areas along the New
SR17 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-09 that
would annex an approximate total of 53.267 acres of right-of-way along the
relocated SR-17 from Fowler Creek Road and south thereof, and being property
owned by the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2009-O-09.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-09 seconded by
Council Member Little. There being no discussion roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-10 – Adopt Pay & Classification Plan – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-10 that
would enact a personnel and pay classification plan pursuant to KRS 83A.070(3).
Mr. Deters read the Ordinance.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-10, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
4-0.
Approval of the May 4, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on May 4, 2009. Council Member Little so moved, with second by
Council Member Behler. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
Approval of the May 18, 2009 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on May 18, 2009. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
Resolution No. 2009-R-09 – Approving the MRA Cooperative Agreement with the
Transportation Cabinet
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-09 which would
approve the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program contract with the State
Transportation Cabinet for the 2009-2010 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2009-R-09.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-09, seconded by
Council Member Little. There being no discussion roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
Mr. Groth commented that it has been a great benefit for the City to
participate in this cooperative agreement with the Transportation Cabinet. By
contributing 3% of the City’s apportionment of municipal road funds to the
emergency fund, we were able to draw $175,000 from that fund to replace the
Crowe/Richardson Road Bridge. He stated this is a good investment for the City
when emergency funds are needed. Mayor Moriconi concurred that this has been
very beneficial for the City.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth submitted a written report. He stated that included with his report
is four monthly reports from Kenton County Animal Control and that during that
time there were 255 calls for service with 63 animals being removed. He stated
monthly reports will be submitted in the future from Animal Control. Mr. Groth
announced that the City continues to accept donations for the City’s annual
July 4th Fireworks Celebration.
Mr. Groth announced that the City will collaborate with the Northern Kentucky
Chamber of Commerce in sponsoring a government/business exchange luncheon on
Tuesday, July 14, 2009 at 11:30 a.m. at the Senior Center. He stated this is a
good opportunity for the businesses in the City to meet with City leaders to
exchange questions and ideas. He stated that lunch will be provided and
encouraged everyone to attend.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that some Council Members have mentioned they will be
unable to attend the July 6th meeting due to vacations and since a quorum may
not be available he is considering cancelling the July meeting. He advised that
since the bids for the Crowe/Richardson Road Bridge will be opened on June 11,
2009 that he would like to hold a special meeting later this month to award the
bids and act on any other business that would have been scheduled for the July
6th meeting. He would like to award the bridge bids as soon as possible so as
not to delay the project and to have it completed before school begins in
August. Since two of the Council Members were absent from this meeting, Mayor
Moriconi directed the City Clerk to poll the Members to select a date that a
quorum would be available to attend.
Mayor Moriconi recognized that the Recreation Director, Nita Brake’s daughter
has graduated from Robert Morris University in Springfield, Illinois with a
3.92 GPA. He extended congratulations to Ms. Brake.
Mayor Moriconi reported that the State Transportation Department has advised
the City that they feel that a traffic signal is not warranted at the
intersection of Cox Road and SR16 (Taylor Mill Road) at this time. They also do
not feel it is necessary to lower the speed limit in that area at this time. He
stated that the State has suggested removal of a tree in the area to allow
better site distance and the relocation of the stop bar on Cox Road.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Littler moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:18 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 29, 2009
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 29, 2009
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, June 29, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Margaret Cook,
Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim Bushong was
absent. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this special meeting of Council
was being held in lieu of the regular meeting scheduled for July 6, 2009 which
will be cancelled due to vacation schedules of some of the Members. He stated
this special meeting agenda is to discuss and take action on the following
business items:
·   Approve the minutes of the June 1, 2009 Council Meeting
·   Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Modifying the NSC
Zone – 1st Reading
·   Resolution No. 2009-R-10 – Supporting Opposition to HR413 Relating to
Collective Bargaining
·   Resolution No. 2009-R-11 – Approving Lease/Purchase Agreement for Police
Cruisers
·   Award Bid for Crowe/Richardson Road Bridge
·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
Approval of the June 1, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on June 1, 2009. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. Amendments for noted as submitted by Council Member
Yeager; roll was called and answered with four ayes and one abstain by Council
Member Franzen. Motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Zoning Text Amendment Modifying the NSC Zone –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a recommendation from the Kenton County Planning Commission (Number
1969R) modifying the NSC zone; 1) approving a text amendment adding offices,
medical, dental and clinics to the list of permitted uses, and 2) approving a
text amendment adding community centers to the list of conditional uses within
the NSC zone. There was a brief discussion. Council Member Behler expressed
concern regarding the proposed community center in the vacated Kenton County
Library building on Taylor Mill Road, which according to the proposed zoning
text change, would be a conditional use. She would like a definition of a
community center. Council Member Franzen commented that a community center
should have a lot of restrictions imposed when granting a conditional use.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Resolution No. 2009-R-10 – Supporting Opposition to HR413 Relating to
Collective Bargaining
Mayor Moriconi presented and read to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-10 which
would approve the opposition of House Resolution 413, known as the Public
Safety Employer-Employee Cooperation Act, and likewise urge Kentucky’s
Representatives and Senators in Congress to oppose it as well. Council Member
Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-10, seconded by Council Member
Behler.
A brief discussion ensued regarding HR 413 and how this would give cities the
choice whether or not to recognize a local city union. Mr. Deters advised that
currently only cities of the first class are mandated to recognize city unions.
Mayor Moriconi stated that by opposing HR 413 the City would be voicing our
desire to allow us the choice to recognize unions or not recognize unions. Mr.
Deters advised that by adopting Resolution No. 2009-R-10 the City would just be
sending a formal message to the State legislators regarding HR 413. Mr. Groth
commented that the Kentucky League of Cities is sponsoring this opposition to
HR 413.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with three ayes
and two no votes cast by Council Members Little and Yeager. Motion carried 3-2.
Resolution No. 2009-R-11 – Approving Lease/Purchase Agreement for Two Police
Cruisers
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-11 that would approve
a master lease-purchase agreement with Leasing One Corporation, a subsidiary of
Farmers Bank & Capital Trust Company, for the financing of the acquisition of
two police cruisers. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2009-R-11. Mayor Moriconi
commented that the two cruisers were budgeted in the adopted 2009/10 budget.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-11, second by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Award Bid for Crowe/Richardson Road Bridge
Mayor Moriconi announced that on June 11, 2009 bids were opened for the
demolition and replacement of the Crowe/Richardson Road Bridge. The bid package
was divided into three phases that included – 1) new bridge design/build, 2)
removal of existing bridge, and 3) installation of new bridge – which would
allow a bidder to bid on just one or all three phases of the project. Bids were
received for the various phases of the project from seven companies. Mr. Groth,
City Administrator advised that the project schedule will have the current
bridge disassembled and removed the week of July 20th and hopefully the entire
project completed before the start of the new school year in August. He stated
that along with staff members the bids were reviewed and in certain phases of
the project the lowest bid was not recommended, but that overall the project
total will come in approximately $13,000 under budget. The following is a cost
breakdown: new bridge $106,886.89, demolition of existing bridge $29,475,
installation of new bridge $39,500, core drillings $5,061.10 and engineering
fees $5,719.61 for a total project cost of $186,642.60. Mr. Groth reminded
Council that the City has received $175,000 from the Emergency Road Aid Funds
from the Kentucky Department of Transportation for this project and that the
City budgeted an additional $25,000 in the 2009/10 fiscal year budget.
Mr. Groth advised that the residents located in the vicinity of the bridge will
be given ample notice that the bridge will be removed and a new bridge
installed so they will know to use the alternate roadway. A brief discussion
ensued regarding issues that may be encountered if the bridge construction is
not completed before schools reopen on August 18th. Mr. Groth assured Council
that he would work something out with the school’s transportation department,
but hoped it wouldn’t be necessary if the project stays on course.
Mr. Groth stated that he is recommending and would like Council approval to
award the purchase of the new bridge to E & H Bridge Company in the amount of
$106,886.89, the removal of the existing bridge to JP Excavating Company in the
amount of $29,475 and the installation of the new bridge to Ron’s Concrete in
the amount of $39,500. Council Member Little so moved, with second by Council
Member Yeager. Mayor Moriconi commented that he is amazed at the low cost of
the bids submitted. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-
0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:20 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 3, 2009
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 3, 2009
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 3,
2009 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor
Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member
Jim Bushong was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the June 29, 2009 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on June 29, 2009. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-11 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Modifying the NSC
Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-11, an
ordinance that would accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning
Commission (Number 1969R) modifying the NSC zone; 1) Approving a text amendment
adding “offices, medical, dental and clinics” to the list of permitted uses
within the NSC zone, such uses being added as two separate listings; a)
“clinics – medical or dental, and b) “offices including medical and dental, and
2) approving a text amendment adding “community centers”: to the list of
conditional uses within the NSC zone. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2009-O-11.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No.2009-O-11, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
Resolution No. 2009-R-12 – Hazardous Duty Retirement Coverage
Mayor Moriconi read Resolution No. 2009-R-12 to Council for their
consideration. This Resolution would petition the state retirement Board to
approve hazardous duty coverage for employee positions in the Police Department
who began participating in the retirement system on or after September 1, 2008.
Chief Shawn Butler explained that this request does not affect current
employees, just any/all employees hired after September 1, 2008. He stated that
this is the first step in a process which has been mandated by state law.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-12, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
Stormwater Transfer Agreement with SD1
Mayor Moriconi directed Council’s attention to the correspondence from
Sanitation District No. 1 along with a proposed stormwater transfer agreement
wherein SD1 will assume responsibility for the identified public storm water
system in Independence. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Little
commented that if the City does not transfer the storm water system over to SD1
then the City will be responsible for all maintenance. Mayor Moriconi and City
Administrator agreed that the system should be maintained by the Sanitation
District.
Council Member Yeager moved to authorize the Mayor to enter into the Agreement
with SD1 for the transfer and assignment of the storm water drainage system,
seconded by Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator’s Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that Buffalo Bob’s restaurant will be donating 10% of all
receipts from 4-7 pm to the Senior Center on Saturday August 8, 2009.
He also reported that installation of the new Crowe Road/Richardson Road bridge
will be this month, hopefully before the start of the new school year. He
stated that company was delayed a week due to a prior job commitment. He stated
that if the bridge is not installed before the start of school that he will
work with the school Board to coordinate an alternate way for the kids to get
to school.
Mr. Groth made the following announcements:
·   NKADD’s annual meeting and awards banquet will be held on Monday, August
24, 2009 at 6:00 p.m.
·   KLC Convention will be held in Covington this year from September 23
through September 25 at the convention center.
·   Memorial Park Amphitheater showing of the movie “The Tale of Despereaux” on
Friday, August 7, 2009
·   Senior Center Picnic and Expo on Thursday, September 10, 2009 beginning at
10:00 a.m.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that since the next regular meeting falls on
September 14th there would be a need for a special council meeting to give the
2009 property tax rates ordinance a first reading. After some discussion it was
determined that all the members could attend a special meeting on Thursday,
August 27th at 7:00 p.m. He stated that the second reading of the ordinance
would be placed on the agenda of the regular September meeting.
Mayor Moriconi commented that there was a great turnout for the July 4th
fireworks. He expressed thanks to all the sponsors of the event as well as the
volunteers and police department.
Miscellaneous
Terri Rosenaker, 4086 Kimberly Drive, Independence – addressed Council to
complain about the property next to her – 4083 Kimberly Drive – she stated that
the property has been vacant for nearly two years and the grass needs to be
cut. Mayor Moriconi stated that we would inspect the property this week.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:21 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 27, 2009
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 27, 2009
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Thursday, August 27, 2009 at 7:00 p.m. in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this special meeting of Council
was being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2009 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
·   Award Bid for the Purchase of Public Services Truck
·   Proclamation – Firefighter Appreciation Month
·   Announcement – Senior Center Picnic
·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2009 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the real estate and personal property tax rates for 2009. He stated that
due to the uncertain economy he is proposing that the City keep the same rates
as last year. There being no questions from Council, Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance establishing the ad valorem tax on real estate property at
$0.200 dollars for each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed value and a
personal property tax rate of $0.596 dollars for each one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Award Bid for the Purchase of a Public Services Truck
Mayor Moriconi announced that on Friday, August 21, 2009 bids were opened for
the purchase of a 2009 Mid-size dump truck for the Public Services Department.
The bids received were as follows: Peterson Truck Center $67,725; McClusky
Chevrolet $65,450 and 32 Ford Mercury Inc. $55,846. Mayor Moriconi stated that
after evaluating the bids Public Services Director Gary Cooper is recommending
that the bid be awarded to Peterson Truck Center in the amount of $67,725. He
stated that the City has experienced transmission problems in the past with
Ford trucks and would like to purchase a Chevrolet to see if the transmissions
hold up better. Mayor Moriconi asked Mr. Cooper to step to the podium to answer
any questions from the Council Members. Council Member Behler expressed concern
that there was a significant difference between the low and high bids. Mr.
Cooper explained that the low bid was for a Ford truck. He stated that he has
had trouble with the Ford transmissions going out during snow removal
operations. He said that the two higher bids are for Chevrolets and the dealers
are guaranteeing a sixty day delivery. Council Member Behler asked if the
dealer would also service the truck. Mr. Cooper stated that Peterson would not
service the truck but that local service is available. In response to other
Council questions, Mr. Cooper advised they have had minimal problems with the
GMC trucks and that the truck accessories for snow removal will be obtained
from another company.
In closing, Mayor Moriconi commented that the highest bid is still under the
amount budgeted for this equipment purchase.
Council Member Little moved to award the bid to Peterson Truck Center as the
best bid submitted for reliability of a maintenance truck in the amount of
$67,725.00. Motion was seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion
carried 5-1.
Proclamation – Firefighter Appreciation Month
Mayor Moriconi stated he was proud to present to the members of the
Independence Fire District a Proclamation proclaiming the month of August as
Firefighters Appreciation Month for all daily service to our communities and to
honor their charitable efforts to the Muscular Dystrophy Association.
Announcement – Senior Center Picnic
Council Member Donna Yeager announced that the Senior Citizens Center would
hold an expo and picnic on Thursday, September 10, 2009. She advised that the
expo would begin at 10:00 a.m. and the picnic would begin at noon. Mayor
Moriconi asked if it was open to the public and Council Member Yeager advised
that the picnic was for members only due to space constraints.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi advised that the next regular meeting of Council would be held
on September 14, 2009. There being no further business, Council Member Franzen
moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried
with all ayes and the meeting ended at 7:14 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 14, 2009
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 14, 2009
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
14, 2009 at 7:00 pm in the Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor
Moriconi called the meeting to order with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Jim Bushong,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna Yeager. Council Member
Mary Pat Behler was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the August 3, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on August 3, 2009. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
with four ayes and one pass vote by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried.
Approval of the August 27, 2009 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on August 27, 2009. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Marty Hahn with E & H Bridge Company thanked Council for purchasing a new
bridge from his company that replaced the old Crowe Road bridge.
Kirk & Margaret Huesman, 77 Roselawn, Independence – addressed Council with a
request to amend the City’s current vicious dog ordinance that would include
language to ban pit bulls. The Huesman’s provided Council information they have
researched that would support their position that banning a specific breed of
dog does not violate dog owner’s rights. Mrs. Huesman stated that she would
like Council to review the documents and consider a ban or at least place
restrictions on the ownership and housing of pit bulls.
Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld stated that the City’s current vicious
dog ordinance requires that the dog (any breed) bite someone before it is
deemed vicious.
Kenton County Police Chief Ed Butler stated that from their perspective dog
cases are difficult to prosecute because the enforcement officer has to
actually witness the dogs act of violence. He stated that the City of Covington
has a very comprehensive ordinance that does not actually ban specific breeds
but requires more control of the dog owner.
Mike Ponzer, 85 Roselawn, Independence – advised Council that there are two pit
bulls on their street that demonstrate vicious behavior causing senior citizens
to carry a stick with them when taking a walk. He said the only thing
restraining the dogs from getting loose is a (door/window) screen. He stated
that Covington’s ordinance has such tight restrictions that it makes it
unaffordable for a resident to own a pit bull.
Council Member Little advised that Council did a lot of research prior to
adopting the current vicious dog ordinance, about two years ago. He stated that
the dog ‘handlers’ have a direct effect on the dog’s behavior. He stated that
it sounds like the dog problem on Roselawn is a handler/owner problem.
Craig Burris, 66 Roselawn Drive, Independence – stated that he is a police
officer for the City of Florence and that Florence’s ordinance states that the
dog just has to exhibit a propensity to bite, regardless of the breed, for it
to be in violation. He stated he believes that the restrictions need to be
placed on the dog owners who allow their animals to display vicious behavior.
He stated the pit bull dogs on his street are not constrained in any manner and
while he does not want to violate anyone’s civil rights he would like to ensure
the safety of the children and other residents of the City. He stated that he
feels pit bulls are unpredictable and he doesn’t want to stand by and wait for
something bad to happen.
A lengthy discussion ensued. Council was in agreement that the current
ordinance should be amended to have stricter regulations that would hold the
dog owners more accountable for their animal’s behavior and also provide
enforcement officers the tools they would need to prosecute offenders. Council
Member Franzen stated that it seems that pit bulls are the only breed that the
City gets complaints on. Further discussion centered on adding language to the
ordinance that would allow the enforcement officers to cite the owners of dogs
that exhibit vicious behavior prior to actually biting someone. Council Member
Bushong agreed that if a dog has the propensity to be vicious or attack it
would be good to add that language to the ordinance.
In closing the discussion, Mayor Moriconi commented that it appears there is no
support for breed specific legislation that would ban pit bulls, but that
amendments to the City’s current ordinance would assist the enforcement
officers in future situations.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-12 – Adopting 2009 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-12 that
would adopt the 2009 property tax rates, both real and personal property. He
stated the proposed rates would be the same rates as last year. He advised the
2009/2010 budget would allow for this. There being no questions from Council,
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2009-O-12 establishing the ad valorem tax on real
estate property at $0.200 dollars for each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
assessed value and a personal property tax rate of $0.596 dollars for each one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-12, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2009-R-13 – Approving the Financing of a New Public Services
Truck
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution 2009-R-13 that would approve a
lease-purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank for the financing of a new
public works vehicle and also authorize him to execute the related documents.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2009-R-13.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-13, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 4-1.
Award Bid for 2009 Street Repair Program
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received for the
2009 Street Resurfacing Project. He stated that the City received great prices
with the city engineer recommending that the bid be awarded to Len Riegler
Blacktop submitting the lowest bid at $145,586.25. In all, four bids were
received with the high bid being $178,632.00. The streets in this project are:
Dogwood, Sycamore, Walnut, Mayflower, Sugar Camp and Sugar Tree.
There being no discussion, council Member Little moved to award the bid to Len
Riegler Blacktop in the amount of $145,586.25, seconded by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Occupational License Agreement with Kenton County
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a revised Interlocal Agreement with Kenton
County for the collection of the city occupational license fees and taxes. City
Administrator Dan Groth explained to Council that this revised version of the
current Agreement with the County includes new language that explains the new
formula for the allocation of the county-wide license fee to the participating
cities and how the allocation will be updated each year. He stated that the new
allocation formula will be a more equitable distribution of the county-wide
license and allow for a reconfiguration each year.
There being no discussion, Council Member Little moved to approve the
Interlocal Agreement with Kenton County for the collection of the City
occupation license and fees, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator’s Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that he would like to petition the State to close off the
egress/ingress to Old Richardson Road at Madison Pike for safety reasons. A
brief discussion ensued. This intersection had been closed but was reopened
while a new bridge was being installed on Crowe Road. Council Member Franzen
suggested that if the State did not officially reopen the intersection then it
should be okay to re-install the barriers to close the road. Council Member
Cook commented that she feels the intersection should remain open for
emergencies. Mayor Moriconi suggested that the City check with the State before
taking action on closing the road.
Mr. Groth reported that the City will be splitting the cost with Sanitation
District No. 1 for a dentention pond needed for the Memorial Park improvements.
Mr. Groth advised that the Carrie Way road project is just about complete
except for the sidewalk area that is still being worked on. He praised the
Public Works employees for doing an excellent job.
Mr. Groth announced that the Police Department will be holding an Operation
Medicine Cabinet as part of the Northern Kentucky Drug Strike Force. The event
will be held at the Senior Center on October 1, 2 & 3. This program allows
citizens to drop off their expired prescriptions, no questions asked, so they
can be disposed in a proper manner. The goal is to deter flushing the
prescriptions down the toilet which contaminates the water system.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi requested an executive session to discuss possible land
acquisition.
Executive Session
At 8:22 p.m. City Attorney Jed Deters requested an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (b) to discuss possible land acquisition. Council
Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with
all ayes.
At 8:35 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:35 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 5, 2009
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 5, 2009
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
5, 2009 at 7:00 pm in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and all Council Members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Michael Little and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the September 14, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on September 14, 2009. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second
by Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstention voiced by Council Member Behler.
Motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Vicious Dog Ordinance No. 2007-O-25 – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a possible first reading a proposed
Ordinance that would amend the current Ordinance No. 2007-O-25 defining and
providing regulations for vicious dogs within the city limits. He advised that
the proposed change to the ordinance does not include breed specific language
that would ban pit bulls or any other breed. He stated that the purpose of the
changes was to provide enforcement officers the authority to deem an animal
vicious prior to the animal actually biting or attacking someone. He stated
that another amendment to the ordinance would be to ban all exotic and wild
animals.
Mr. Deters advised that the changes to the ordinance also give enforcement
officers the ability to cite the owner of the animal to District Court. Council
Member Little stated he felt that requiring the animal owner to carry liability
insurance coverage and listing the City as an additional insured on their
insurance policy would provide some assurance to the City.
Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for comments from the audience. Sarah McCane,
602 Berlander Drive, Independence commented that she felt the City should just
enforce the leash law and suggested that the proposed changes to this ordinance
were canine profiling.
Dana Luther, 1402 Old State Road, Park Hills, Kentucky – stated that she was
not a resident of the City but felt that this proposed ordinance has the
potential for profiling of dogs. She stated she felt that enforcement officers
should be given training in dog behavior.
There being no further comments or discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading. Mayor Moriconi stated the ordinance would be
presented for a second reading at the November 2nd meeting.
City Administrator’s Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced that the Police Department has received the Golden Eagle
Award from the Kentucky League of Cities in recognition of receiving a perfect
score on the KLC insurance law enforcement scorecard evaluation. He also
announced that the City would hold the annual Howl-O-Ween event for pets. He
stated it is a Halloween costume contest for pets and that it would be held on
Saturday October 17th from noon until 4:00 p.m. He announced that also on
October 17th that the Buffalo Bob’s restaurant would donate 10% of their
profits from 4-7 pm to the Senior Center for their program fund. Mr. Groth also
reported that the Police Department has received a $20,000 Highway Safety
grant.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report but requested an executive
session to discuss possible land acquisition.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that property owners can now pay their taxes on line
with a credit card by going to the city’s website.
Mayor Moriconi reported that 2010 Census workers would be canvassing the city
in the near future and cautioned residents to ask anyone approaching their
property to produce identification. He said all workers should voluntarily show
identification as a Census worker, but if not then residents should ask to see
it. He also advised that citizens should never provide anyone, even a Census
worker, with their social security number.
In closing, Mayor Moriconi requested an executive session to discuss possible
land acquisition.
Executive Session
At 7:14 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to go into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (b) to discuss possible land acquisition, with
second by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:28 p.m. Council Member Behler moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:29 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 2, 2009
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of November 2, 2009
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
2, 2009 at 7:00 pm in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager.
Council Member Mike Little was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K.
Deters.
Approval of the October 5, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on October 5, 2009. Council Member Behler so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Presentation – Report on OKI Fiscal Impact Study
Mayor Moriconi introduced Larisa Sims, Regional Planning Manager with OKI
Council of Governments and Dennis Gordon, Executive Director of NKAPC who would
be reporting on a fiscal impact study in which the City was a participant.
Mr. Gordon advised Council that OKI approached them about a collaborative
effort to design custom software that would assist local agencies in
calculating costs and revenues associated with new development and/or land use
changes. He stated that this would be a great benefit for local jurisdictions
for zoning and development plans. He stated the software would calculate in
quantifiable terms the revenue that the development would generate by way of
tax revenue as well as the related City expenses to provide services to that
development.
Mrs. Larisa Sims conducted a power point presentation that explained a fiscal
impact which includes typical costs to the local government such as providing
additional public safety and transportation investments. She stated that a
fiscal impact analysis measures cash flow to and from the public sector and
provides comparison data. Mrs. Sims advised that the NKAPC assisted in the
development of the Fiscal Impact Analysis Model which includes specific
information for Independence and will be officially launched on November 9,
2009. She stated that the information used is not based on regional or national
averages and that Independence was one of ten partner communities in the
Greater Cincinnati area and the only one in Kenton County chosen as a pilot
city for the model. She stated that specific information such as tax rates and
community characteristics can be input into the software and the resulting
analysis will provide an insight into whether the planned zoning and/or
development changes will be a positive or negative impact on the local
government. Mrs. Sims cautioned that fiscal impacts are only one of many
factors that provide a reason for land use changes and should not be the sole
factor in deciding a land use issue and that all factors have to be balanced
with the overall needs of the community.
There was a brief question and answer exchange with the Council Members.
Council Member Behler asked if other similar tools are being used around the
country. Mrs. Sims stated they found a few similar models but they really were
not comparable to this model in terms of comprehensive and simple use. She
stated they feel that this is a cutting edge model.
City Administrator, Dan Groth commented that the City will begin using this
software for future planned developments.
Resident Don Nienabor, 66 McCullum Road, asked the cost of this software. Mayor
Moriconi commented that this software will not cost the City anything as this
is being funded by NKAPC. There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi
thanked Mrs. Sims and Mr. Gordon for their presentation.
Privileges of the Floor
Ms. Betty Cheek, 23 Apple Drive, Independence – addressed Council with a
request to ban on-street parking in the “s” curve on both sides of Apple Drive
behind the funeral home. She stated that it has become a hazardous section of
the street when cars are parked in the “s” curve.
City Administrator Dan Groth stated that he has talked to the Police Chief
about erecting No Parking signs in this area of Apple Drive. He said that the
problem occurs often times when there is a parking overflow from the Chambers
and Grubbs Funeral Home parking lot.
City Attorney Jed Deters advised that the Police Department can erect No
Parking signs on a temporary basis, but that to ban parking in this “s” curve
on a permanent basis that the City would need to declare this a No Parking
Zone. After a brief discussion it was decided to direct the Police Department
to install temporary no parking signs until a legal, permanent remedy could be
achieved.
Ordinance No. 2009-O-13 – Amending Vicious Dog Ordinance No. 2007-O-25 – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2009-O-13 that
would amend the Vicious Dog Ordinance No. 2007-O-25. He stated the amendments
would give the enforcement officer/agent authority to deem any breed of dog to
have vicious propensity after the said officer/agent personally observed the
dog’s behavior. Another major amendment to the original ordinance would be the
banning of exotic and wild animals.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2009-O-13, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. There was a brief discussion. Mr. Deters read Ordinance
No. 2009-O-13. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and one no vote cast
by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 4-1.
Resolution No. 2009-R-14 – Affirming States Rights under 10th Amendment &
Support Kentucky BR 54
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2009-R-14 that would support
the affirmation of the States rights under the 10th amendment and support
Kentucky BR 54. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2009-R-14.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2009-R-14, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-05 – Re-appointment of Maura Snyder to Kenton
County Planning Commission
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for consideration Municipal Order No. 2009-
MO-05 that would approve the re-appointment of Maura Snyder to the Kenton
County Planning Commission. Mayor Moriconi commented that Ms. Snyder’s has done
a good job for the City, has the experience and has good attendance at the
meetings.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2009-MO-05, seconded
by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and one
no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 4-1.
City Administrator’s Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced that congratulations were in order for Public Services Crew
Leader Dan Koch who has achieved his Roads Scholar designation from the
Kentucky Transportation Department.
He also reported that the City would be placing an ad for requests for
proposals for banking services. He said the City is not unhappy with the
current bank services, but feels it is good to re-bid every few years in order
to get better rates.
Mr. Groth stated that ISAC has some designs for a new “Welcome to Independence”
monument sign. He advised that ISAC members will make a presentation at the
next Council meeting. They will also discuss and seek approval to proceed with
working on form based codes with NKAPC. He stated that the next step for ISAC
will be to form a Steering Committee that will actively begin to implement the
suggestions in the Downtown Study.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report but requested an executive
session to discuss possible land acquisition.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported that the Public Services crew has been dealing with
dams being construction by beaver in the Banklick Creek.
Executive Session
At 7:55 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to go into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (b) to discuss possible land acquisition, with
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:07 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Cook moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:08 p.m.
                     ________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 7, 2009
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 7, 2009
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
7, 2009 at 7:00 pm in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the November 2, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on November 2, 2009. Council Member Behler so moved, with second
by Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstention voiced by Council Member Little.
Motion carried.
Presentation by Keith Logsdon, NKAPC on Form Based Codes
Mayor Moriconi introduced Keith Logsdon; Deputy Director of Long Range Planning
for the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission who would be presenting the
concept of adopting form based zoning codes. City Administrator, Dan Groth
advised that Mr. Logsdon would explain what form based codes is and the process
involved in crafting this zoning text. He commented that the Planning
Commission is currently working with the City of Covington on this concept.
Mr. Logsdon began by saying that the concept of form based codes was a key
component of the Small Area Study that the City adopted in 2008. In creating
form based codes they would look at three areas, those being the courthouse
area, the intersection of McCullum and New SR17 and the existing area around
the New SR17 that is currently under development. He said the overview of the
project would be similar to that of the Small Area Study as a committee would
be created to work with them on the project and public meetings would be held
to obtain citizen input. The process would take a year and would first begin
with organizing a committee sometime between January and March 2010 and then in
April the NKAPC staff would begin working with the Committee members on a
monthly basis and scheduling public meetings. He stated the end result of the
form based codes concept would be presented as proposed text and map amendments
to the Council for adoption. Mr. Logsdon advised that the form based zoning
codes would be drafted to tailor the City’s vision regarding future development
in achieving a specific urban form.
Mr. Groth commented that adopting form based zoning codes is the next step in
achieving one of the objectives of the Small Area Study. He stated that Council
Members Behler and Yeager have already volunteered to sit on the committee. He
advised it will take 2-3 months to form the Committee.
Mr. Logsdon commented that the Fiscal Impact Study can be used in this process
as well and that Independence is the only city in Kenton County to currently
have this capability. Mayor Moriconi asked what developers don’t like about
form based zoning codes. Mr. Logsdon replied that he has not heard many
negative comments from developers and that most like the increased density and
flexibility.
Mr. Logsdon advised that the City will not be charged for the Planning
Commission’s work on this project so no contract will be necessary.
Council Member Behler commented that form based zoning codes will provide the
City with an opportunity to adopt a unique look so that we don’t look like
other cities in the region.
Council Member Bushong moved to approve the City’s collaboration with the NKAPC
staff in developing a form based zoning code text amendment proposal and the
proposed zoning map amendments. Council Member Behler seconded the motion. Roll
was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member
Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Presentation by Rodney Crice, ISAC – Proposed Monument Sign Design
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that he had asked ISAC (Independence Strategic
Action Committee) members to come up with a gateway sign design. He introduced
ISAC Chairman Rodney Crice who would present their design concept of a gateway
sign.
Mr. Crice presented to Council a sketch of a gateway sign along with a site
plan. He stated that several months ago the committee presented a master plan
concept for wayfinding signs. In the sketch they are presenting their thoughts
on what the sign should look like. He gave further details about the proposed
sign which would be made of various materials including limestone and stone
walls. The basic sign would be ten feet wide by six feet tall and include the
text “The City of Independence,” “The Heart of Kenton County,” and “Founded
1842.” It would also include a graphic of a cupola. Mr. Crice advised the site
location for the sign would be at the intersection of New SR17 and McCullum
Road. He indicated that the sign would have a fifty foot setback, include
ground mount lighting, extensive landscaping and because of budget constraints
the sign would be built in phases.
A question and answer period ensued with Council regarding the proposed site,
font lettering on the sign and the projected cost of the sign, walls, lighting
and landscaping. Mr. Crice advised that the sign and wall masonry would run
approximately $20,000. He stated that the sign site would be situated in the
right of way and would be a very visible location. Mayor Moriconi commented
that he would like to add “Welcome” to the sign. Mayor Moriconi commented that
everyone seems to like the overall concept of the sign. He requested that the
suggested changes to the sign’s text be submitted at the next Council meeting
and he thanked ISAC for the time they have spent on preparing this sign
concept.
Privileges of the Floor
Don Randall, 125 Carrie Way, Independence – addressed Council by stating that
he was representing St. Barbara Church with a request that the City sponsor the
application of a zoning text amendment that would allow electronic board signs
as a conditional use.
Mr. Groth advised Council that the City’s current signs regulations allow signs
to be lit from within but not LED with animation or flashing features. In order
to allow these type signs the City would need to reconsider adopting the Model
Sign ordinance as proposed by the Planning Commission or take this individual
request and pass a Resolution approving the application of a text amendment. He
stated the process could take approximately 5-6 months as the Planning
Commission would review the application and make a recommendation to the City
as to whether or not the City should change the zoning text to allow this type
sign. He stated that if the City would adopt a text amendment to allow this as
a conditional use, then the next step would be for the church to apply to the
Board of Adjustments to request the conditional use.
Mr. Deters stated he would get with City staff to compose proposed text
language and submit to Council in the form of a resolution at the next regular
meeting.
Award Bid for Banking Services
Mayor Moriconi announced that the City solicited proposals for banking services
and received five bids. He stated that it had been four years since the bank
services were put out for bid and that it is good to re-bid these services
every so often.
Finance Director Teresa Hudson provided a bid summary which indicated that
three banks offered to pay interest on the full amount of our deposits but
would also charge fees for the services provided and another bank offered no
fees, but required a compensating balance in exchange for no fees. Mrs. Hudson
stated it is her recommendation that the City award the bid to Park National
Bank as they are offering to provide services with no fees and with no
compensating balance requirement. She stated that no compensating balance
requirement would mean the City would earn interest on the full amount of all
deposits. She stated that Park National also offered the highest interest rate
on deposits.
A brief discussion ensued. John Nienabor representing Park National Bank
responded to some questions from the Council Members. Council Member Bushong
questioned that the closest bank branch was in Florence. Mr. Nienabor stated
that a bank representative would stop in at the City building on a regular
basis to pick up deposits. Another concern was that Park National was a smaller
bank. Mrs. Hudson advised that they are fully covered by FDIC insurance so
everything would be fully covered with no additional risk. Council Member
Behler asked if the City had checked references. Mrs. Hudson stated the bid did
not request references, just a list of other clients to indicate they have
experience with similar clients.
Council Member Franzen moved to award the banking services bid to Park National
Bank, seconded by Council Member Behler. Further discussion ensued. Mr.
Nienabor assured Council that Park National has provided a fair bid with rates
that will be in effect for the four year contract period. He stated that Park
National is headquartered in Newark, Ohio and has been in business for 100
years with assets totaling $7-8 billion. He stated he is a native of Kenton
County and manages the Florence office. He assured Council that they will
utilize various methods of deposits that include pickups at the city office,
lock box facility and check scanners. Mrs. Hudson further explained
compensating balance to the Council. There being no further discussion roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – No Parking Section on Apple Drive – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a possible first reading a proposed
Ordinance that would make it unlawful to park any motor vehicle, trailer,
truck, motorcycle, or the like, at any time, on any portion of both sides of
Apple Drive from its intersection with Madison Pike to a point on Apple Drive,
420 feet from said intersection. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading. Mayor Moriconi advised the ordinance would be presented at the January
meeting for a second reading.
City Administrator’s Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the City took over maintenance of Marshall Road in 2006
as part of the agreement with Kenton County. He advised that the road has six
major slippages that are in dire need of repairs. He stated that this past
summer the City applied for Emergency Road Aid funds to repair and resurface
parts of the road and has been awarded $100,000. He stated that he has met with
County and State officials to determine how to get the most work done for the
money received from the State. He stated that the City will need to budget
further repairs to the slippages over the next few years. Mr. Groth advised
that it is necessary to make some repairs as soon as possible as the asphalt
plants will be closing in a few weeks. He requested that Council declare an
emergency exists so that the City can circumvent the bidding process for this
project. He stated the bidding process will take several weeks and by then
winter will have set in and the asphalt plants will be closed until Spring. Mr.
Groth stated that the City Attorney has advised that KRS 45A.380, which is part
of the procurement code, provides for non-competitive bidding if an emergency
is declared by the Mayor. He stated that they have secured proposals from three
contractors for the blacktopping and Hennecke Drilling has stated they will
honor the State contract bid for doing the pier work. He requested that Council
declare an emergency exists on Marshall Road and approve Riegler’s proposal to
do the blacktopping at $60/per ton of asphalt and approve Hennecke Drilling to
do the pier work. He stated the project could begin next week and be completed
before Christmas. Mayor Moriconi stated the entire project will not exceed the
$100,000 received from the State.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Bushong expressed concern about more
slippage and wondered if there are alternative routes for school busses.
Captain Tony Lucas assured him that there is an alternative route that could be
used. Council Member Cook commented that the properties on Marshall Road are
not in the City and wanted to know how the City ended up being responsible for
the maintenance of this road. She stated she is concerned that because this is
on a creek bed that the slippage won’t go away. Mr. Deters replied that the
City had no choice and obtained the maintenance of this road as part of the
settlement of the City’s lawsuit against the County. Mayor Moriconi advised
that sections of Marshall Road are fine and there are a lot of City roads that
follow creeks. Mr. Groth stated that another section of the road may be piered
up with the remaining funds received from the State. Council Member Behler
commented that this project has been delayed as the City was waiting to see if
the State would provide the emergency road aid funds and the amount of funds
that would be provided.
Council Member Yeager moved to declare that an emergency exists on Marshall
Road because there is major slippage occurring and furthermore moved to bypass
the bidding process to make some road repairs before winter sets in and the
asphalt plants close and to award the project to Hennecke Drilling and Riegler
Blacktopping. Council Member Behler seconded the motion. Roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion
carried 5-1.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Discussion Regarding Unsafe Conditions at Intersection of McCullum Road & New
SR17
Council Member Yeager addressed Council regarding the unsafe conditions that
exist at the intersection of McCullum Road and the New section of SR17. She
stated she feels the City should petition the State for a traffic light at this
intersection before a fatality occurs. Mayor Moriconi concurred and suggested
meeting with the State Transportation Department officials to discuss this
intersection. Mr. Groth advised that the City did request a light at this
intersection and the State has denied the request. He stated he would get with
the Police Chief and discuss re-petitioning the State. Mayor Moriconi stated
that he would request Senator Damon Thayer and State Representative Tom Kerr
send a letter of support for a light to the Transportation Department.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated that today is Pearl Harbor Day, a somber day in our
nation’s history. He expressed gratitude to all our country’s military veterans
Executive Order No. 2009-EO-01
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2009-EO-01 that would re-appoint
Dave Millward to the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky (TBNK) for a
two-year term beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending on December 31, 2012. No
objections were noted.
Executive Order No. 2009-EO-02
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2009-EO-02 that would appoint
himself as the primary representative for the City on the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission with Council Member Donna Yeager as the alternative
representative. No objections were noted.
Miscellaneous Comments & Announcements
Council Member Franzen thanked everyone for the flowers that were sent to her
while she recovered from her recent surgery.
She also announced that Independence Christian Church would be operating an
emergency food pantry that would be open every Friday. She asked that anyone
who knows of people in need to please send them to the Church pantry.
Council Member Franzen also commented that a zoning violation exists on Carrie
Way. A resident has piled roof shingles in the front yard and strung Christmas
lights on them. Mr. Groth advised the resident would be notified of the
violation.
Brighten up the Holidays contest
Mayor Moriconi announced that the Independence Businesses Association (IBA)
would be sponsoring a contest this year called “Brighten up the Holidays.”
Prizes will be awarded to the best houses decorated for the Christmas holidays,
with the first place winner receiving $100 and coupons from local businesses.
He stated there is a $10.00 entry fee which will be donated to the Family
Resource Center.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:22 p.m.
                     ________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2010 Minutes
January 4, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 4, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
4, 2010 at 7:00 pm in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the December 7, 2009 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on December 7, 2009. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0
Intersection of new SR17 & McCullum Road
Council Member Behler asked the Mayor and City Administrator if the City had
received a response yet from the State regarding our request to install a
traffic light at the intersection of McCullum Road and the new SR 17. Mr. Groth
replied that a letter of request was sent to the State but no response has been
received to date. Council Member Yeager commented that the State Highway
employees were in the area of the intersection doing some testing.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-01 – Imposing “No Parking” Sections on Apple Drive
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2010-O-01 that
would prohibit parking on specific portions of Apple Drive. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2010-O-01.
There being no discussion, Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No.
2010-O-01, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered
unanimously and the motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2010-R-01 – Supporting the Application of a Zoning Text
Amendment to Add Electronically Changeable Copy Signs as a Conditional Use in
Commercial Zones
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2010-R-01 that would support
a zoning text amendment application to the Planning Commission. He reminded
Council that this was being presented pursuant to the request by a
representative of St. Barbara Church at last month’s council meeting. He stated
the church is interested in installing an electronic sign, which is not
currently allowed. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Deters advised that the
Planning Commission would review the application and make a recommendation to
the City. He also advised that as a conditional use, the Board of Adjustment
would either approve or disapprove the conditional use and would imposed
additional restrictions at that time.
Council Member Behler suggested re-visiting the model sign ordinance
regulations that the Planning Commission recommended the City adopt. She
suggested that adopting those sign regulations would put an end to continued
requests to amend the current, outdated sign regulations the City currently
have in place. She asked Council Member Little if he was still working on
revising the model sign ordinance to a more customized version for
Independence. Council Member Little commented that he was opposed to the
blanket ordinance submitted by the Planning Commission as Independence has more
rural areas than other cities in Northern Kentucky. He stated he will resume
his editing of the document and submit it to the rest of Council before the
next meeting.
Further discussion resulted in Council coming to a consensus in agreeing to
sponsor a zoning text amendment application at the request of St. Barbara
Church. The recommendation by the Planning Commission would be submitted at the
February 1st council meeting. Council also agreed to review the model sign
ordinance with proposed revisions by Council Member Little at the February 1st
meeting. Council decided to proceed with adopting one or the other at the
February 1st meeting.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2010-R-01, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0
City Administrator’s Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the worst section of Marshall Road was piered up and
blacktop was applied to the other areas of the road that were in poor
condition. He stated there may be enough funds remaining from the $100,000 of
emergency aid received from the State to pier another area in the Spring.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced the winner of the “Brighten up the Holiday” contest
was Kelly Jett of 4581 Oliver Road. He stated that sixteen houses submitted
entries in the contest. Mr. Jett’s house had synchronized lights and music that
was transmitted over a radio frequency. Mayor Moriconi stated a plaque listing
the annual winners of this contest will hang in the lobby.
Executive Session
At 7:28 p.m. Council Member Little moved to go into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation, with second by
Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:47 p.m. Council Member Behler moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:47 p.m.
                     ________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 1, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 1, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
1, 2010 at 7:00 pm in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the January 4, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on January 4, 2010. Council Member Little so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0
Privileges of the Floor
Mr. Larry Hamilton and Ms. Leslie Knight came before the Council to request the
City sponsor a zoning text amendment application that would add pawn shops to
the list of permitted uses within the NC (Neighborhood Commercial) zone.
Mr. Hamilton stated he has looked at the Beechgrove Shopping Plaza as a good
location for a pawn shop. He had four pawn shop locations in Lexington and
while he is aware that this type of business can be perceived negatively, they
provide loans to people struggling to meet their bills as well as sell items.
Council Member Bushong asked if they would sell weapons. Mr. Hamilton stated
they usually sell used and new weapons, but would be willing to not sell
weapons. He stated that when he operated the pawn shops in Fayette County the
county police would come in every day to check the inventory. A brief
discussion ensued. Council Member Behler expressed concern that some residents
would not welcome this type of business in their neighborhood. Council Member
Yeager stated she would like to hear from the residents of Beechgrove as she
would like their input.
Mr. Deters advised Council that sponsoring the text amendment would just be the
first step in the process of adding this type of business to the NC zone. He
stated the Planning Commission would make a review and then a recommendation to
the City as to whether or not they feel this should be a permitted use. Mayor
Moriconi advised that if this was approved that it would affect all NC zones
not just the Beechgrove Plaza.
Council Member Franzen stated she did not have a problem sponsoring the
application to the Planning Commission to get their recommendation and
therefore made a motion to do so, seconded by Council Member Cook. Roll was
called and answered with three ayes and three no votes cast by Council Members
Behler, Bushong and Yeager. There being a tie vote of the Council, Mayor
Moriconi broke the tie by voting yes. Motion carried 4-3 in favor of sponsoring
a text amendment application. Council Member Franzen announced she would also
be interested in hearing from the residents on this issue.
Traffic Signal at the Intersection of McCullum and New SR17
Council Member Yeager asked what the status was regarding the City’s request to
the State to install a traffic signal at the McCullum Road/New SR17
intersection. Mr. Groth advised he spoke with Rob Hans, District 6 Chief
Engineer for the Transportation Cabinet, who stated that
the preliminary tests indicate there is no change from the prior tests they
performed, but they are continuing to study the area. A discussion ensued with
some Council Members in favor of going to Frankfort to lobby for a traffic
light at this intersection. Council Member Bushong suggested that maybe the
State would consider installing a caution light. Council Member Yeager stated
that she feels a traffic light would be the best solution for this
intersection. Mr. Groth will keep Council informed of any developments on this
issue.
Privileges of the Floor (continued) – Discussion Regarding Plans for a “Welcome
to the City of Independence” Monument Sign
Mayor Moriconi advised that people signed in to address the Council regarding a
proposed “Welcome to the City of Independence” monument sign. He stated he
wanted to clear up a misunderstanding and make it clear that the City did not
budget $25,000 for this sign. He stated the amount budgeted in the 2009/10
budget is $10,000. He stated that those who still wished to speak on this issue
were welcome to do so, but he just wanted to make that clear.
Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, Independence – addressed Council regarding his
feelings about the proposed monument sign. He stated that he is not against
‘welcome’ signs but is not in favor of building four of these monument signs,
at four different locations, at the cost of $25,000 each. Mr. Cobble went on to
express concerns he has for raising taxes, cutting waste in the budget and
fixing city roads. He opined that the Council should do the right thing and get
the City’s priorities in order. Before yielding the floor, Mr. Cobble presented
to the Mayor petitions (attached hereto) signed by the residents who are
against the monument signs.
Again, Mayor Moriconi advised the audience that the City has budgeted $10,000,
not $25,000, for one monument sign, not four, which is planned to be
constructed at the intersection of the new section of SR17 and Pelly Road.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Court, Independence – stated she did not feel the City
needed to spend $10,000 on one sign that would be surrounded with landscaping
and lightning. She stated she feels that landscaping is a maintenance expense
which is a waste of money. She went on to express concerns that the City needs
to be more conservative with the taxpayers’ money and that Council should
buckle down in the budget.
Mayor Moriconi explained that the committee (ISAC) of volunteers just presented
a sign concept to the Council at the last meeting. He stated he feels this sign
concept has been blown out of proportion as the City, other than setting aside
$10,000 in the current budget, has not acted on the concept. He stated that no
elected official has been quoted as saying the City will be spending $25,000 on
this monument sign. He stated the City has not taken bids for the sign and that
it is possible that the Public Works employees would construct the sign.
Mr. Jim Caldwell, 850 Independence Station Road, Independence – stated that
while he is not against the monument sign, he does feel that $10,000 is a lot
for one sign. He asked that the Council provide the exact plans for the sign to
the residents when the plans become available.
A brief discussion ensued among the Council Members. Council Member Little
tried to provide some history regarding the idea behind the monument sign. He
stated it was an idea that came from citizen input during the Small Area Study.
He stated that the citizens that participated in the Study considered signage a
priority. He also informed the audience that the City wasn’t actually certain
of the cost for this type of sign, but decided to set aside $10,000 in the
budget. Council Member Yeager commented that people have told her that when
driving along the new section of SR17 that they don’t know they have arrived in
Independence and end up in Nicholson. Council Member Behler agreed that
visitors to the City cannot find the City when using the new SR17, which is a
reason that installing signage is an important priority for the City.
Privileges of the Floor (continued)
Tom Daniels, 25 Carrie Way, Independence – addressed Council regarding two
issues, the first being that he lives on a dead end street and cars are parked
on one side and the other is speeders on his street. He stated he has talked to
the police about this and a cruiser will come by but does not stay and run
radar.
Mr. Daniels also complained that he has been notified by the City that he is
not permitted to keep his trailer, yet he notices other properties that have
campers and boats and he feels that nothing is being done about them. He
specifically mentioned the property across from the new office building in the
downtown area.
Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld responded to Mr. Daniels by stating that
the cars parked in violation on the street are a police issue that would be
handled by the Police Department. She also advised Council that in 2009 the
City notified 1300 property owners regarding zoning violations on their
property. She stated that all but forty-five owners came into compliance with
the City zoning laws. She went on to say that sometimes a violation will go
unnoticed by City staff, but the City has continually worked to get the
violations under control.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Zoning Text Amendment for Sign Regulations – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would amend the
text of the current zoning ordinance to delete all current definitions and
regulations regarding signage and adding new definitions and regulations for
signage. He thanked Council Member Little for the time he spent on the
revisions to this ordinance.
Council Member Little led the discussion with Council in reviewing the proposed
revisions. After the revisions were made and agreed upon by the Council, Mr.
Deters gave the ordinance its first reading. Mayor Moriconi advised the
ordinance would be presented for a second reading at the next meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Map Amendment to Amend Stage I Development Plan
for the Independence Village – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first a proposed ordinance that would approve an
amended Stage I map amendment to change an approximate 13.3 acre area located
at the northwest corner of the intersection of the new Madison Pike and
Centennial Blvd. from R-2 (PUD) to R-3(PUD).
Mayor Moriconi commented that this amendment would change the density of the
multi-family section of this PUD development so that the residential
construction could begin. A brief discussion ensued. Developer, Jim Bertram
advised they would like to begin the development by Spring, but still needs to
get the preliminary plat approved and then begin the Stage II approval process.
Mr. Bertram handed out an informational packet for this planned apartment
community to be called Independence Oaks. He advised Council the information
contained in these packets was the same information presented at the Kenton
County Planning Commission public hearing. He stated that this amended Stage I
Plan for the apartment development received unanimous approval from the
Planning Commission. He stated that part of the amended proposal would include
two ground signs and two directional signs. Council Member Bushong asked what
the rent would be for the apartments. Mr. Bertram advised that a two-bedroom
would rent for $875/month and a 3-bedroom would rent for $1,025/month. When
asked about the common space and if there would be any changes, Mr. Bertram
advised that most of the common area would be left in its natural state. Mr.
Bertram asked the Council if they would consider having a special council
meeting later this month to get final approval of this amended Stage I
ordinance so that they could then move on to getting the preliminary plat
approved before the end of February. He stated after the preliminary plat is
approved, and because this is a PUD development, they must then submit a Stage
II application and the builder would like to begin construction in April.
After a brief discussion regarding a date and time for a special council
meeting, the Mayor and Council Members agreed to hold a special meeting on
Thursday, February 11, 2010 at 7 p.m. at which time a second reading of the
ordinance would be presented.
Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance that would amend the Stage I map
amendment for the Independence Village development a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving the Closing of a Portion of Lily Drive – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
close a portion of Lily Drive no longer being needed since the relocation of
Richardson Road, with adjoining two property owners having provided the City
with notarized requests and consent for the proposed closing. Mr. Deters gave
the ordinance a first reading.
Discussion Regarding Lawn Maintenance Contract
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration the current
contract for lawn maintenance with Malco Services and asked if they wanted to
extend the current contract per the price schedule as outlined in the original
bid or if they wanted to put this service out for bid again. He stated that
Malco does a good job for the City. A brief discussion ensued.
Council Member Behler moved to put the lawn and park maintenance services out
for bid, seconded by Council Member Cook. Roll was called and answered with
three ayes and three no votes cast by Council Members Bushong, Franzen and
Yeager. Mayor Moriconi broke the tie by voting yes. Motion carried 4-3 to re-
bid the lawn/park maintenance services.
City Administrator’s Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth stated that he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Presentation of the Annual Audit – Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2009 – Mayor
Moriconi advised Council that a copy of the annual audit was provided to them
in the meeting packet and if they have any questions about the audit they
should contact the Finance Director.
Mayor Moriconi advised that he has received a lot of calls regarding a letter
many residents have received about the repair of public water lines. He advised
everyone to be cautious of acting on this notice as it is a scam and the
company that sent this notice is not associated with the City.
Marshall Road
Council Member Cook stated that she wanted to clarify the reason she voted
against the Marshall Road repairs at the December meeting. She stated she was
not a member of Council when the City finalized the agreement with the county
on taking over maintenance of certain roads which included Marshall Road. She
stated she agrees that the road needs to be repaired, but she feels the City
should not have accepted maintenance of Marshall Road. Mayor Moriconi advised
that the City assumed the ownership and maintenance of Marshall Road as part of
a lawsuit settlement with the County. Council Member Cook reiterated that she
feels the City should not have agreed to the responsibility for that street as
it does not touch city property. Council Member Little advised that Marshall
Road does touch the city and that the City accepted maintenance of this road in
exchange for the County taking maintenance of Independence Station Road which
was part of the lawsuit settlement.
Noise Nuisance Ordinance Discussion
Council Member Cook advised she has spoken to the Police Chief regarding loud
cars and motorcycles and she is looking into proposing an amendment to the
City’s current noise nuisance ordinance at a future council meeting. She stated
she is reviewing other cities noise ordinances and the City of Covington has a
good one.
Board of Ethics Ordinance Discussion
Council Member Cook stated she recently attended a Board of Ethics meeting
where they discussed the question of hiring practices, specifically employee’s
relatives. She advised that the Ethics Board has recommended that the City
update the Ethics ordinance to remove any vagueness. She stated the City
Attorney will speak with the Ethics Board chairman to propose amendments to the
current ethics ordinance.
Adjournment
Before closing the meeting, Mayor Moriconi advised that a March 1, 2010 regular
meeting would only be held if needed. There being no further business before
the Council, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by
Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 9:
18 p.m.
                     ________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 11, 2010
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 11, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Thursday, February 11, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim
Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this special meeting of Council
was being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
·   Ordinance No. 2010-O-02 – Approving a Map Amendment for the Independence
Village – 2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2010-O-03 – Approving Zoning Text Amendment Sign Regulations
– 2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2010-O-04 – Approving the Closing of a Portion of Lily Drive
– 2nd Reading
·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
Ordinance No. 2010-O-02 – Approving a Map Amendment for the Independence
Village – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-
02 that would approve a zoning map amendment, KCPC Number 1995R, that would
change approximately 13.3 acres in the Independence Village development located
at the northwest corner of the intersection of Madison Pike (new SR17) with
Centennial Boulevard from R-2 (PUD) to R-3 (PUD). Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No.
2010-O-02 a second reading.
Council Member Bushong made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-02, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Developer, Jim Bertram, stated they would proceed with the next step which
would be to go before the Planning Commission with a Stage I development plan
application.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-03 – Approving Zoning Text Amendment Adopting New Sign
Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-03 which
would approve a text amendment that would eliminate the current sign
regulations in the City’s zoning ordinance and adopt new sign regulations. Mr.
Deters gave Ordinance No. 2010-O-03 a second reading.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-03, seconded by
Council Member Behler. A brief discussion ensued regarding the number of
permitted temporary signs in the various zones. The Council Members agreed to
change the proposed text to decrease the number of temporary signs from fifteen
to twelve.. Mr. Deters advised this was a minor change from the first reading
of the ordinance. Council Members Franzen and Behler consented to amending
their motion/second to include the amending of the number of temporary signs.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-04 – Approving the Closing of a Portion of Lily Drive –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-04 that
would approve the closing of a portion of Lily Drive no longer being needed
since the relocation of Richardson Road, with adjoining two property owners
having provided the City with notarized requests and consent for the proposed
closing. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-04, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. No discussion. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business before the Council, Council Member Little moved
to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with
all ayes and the meeting ended at 7:13 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 22, 2010
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 22, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, March 22, 2010 at 6:45 p.m. in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong,
Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this Special meeting of Council
was being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
·   Request by Farmers’ Market Vendors to Waive Occupational License Fees
·   Resolution No. 2010-R-03 – Authorizing the Application to the Department of
Local Government for Assistance Under the Land & Water Conservation Fun for a
Proposed Recreation Project
Request by Farmer’s Market Vendors to Waive Occupational License Fees
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the Farmers’ Market vendors are requesting
that the City waive occupational license fees. He stated that this waiver could
be accomplished by amending Chapter 112 of the code of ordinances that regulate
peddlers, itinerate merchants and solicitors to include vendors participating
in the Farmers’ Market as an exemption. He commented that the Farmers’ Market
is a great program in the City which only operates on Saturdays from April
through October each year. Mr. Deters advised that this section of the code of
ordinances also provides exemptions for churches and educational institutions.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Chapter 112 of the Code of Ordinances and
Providing for an Exemption for Vendors of the Farmers’ Market – 1st Reading
After a brief discussion, Mr. Deters composed an ordinance amending Chapter 112
of the code of ordinances providing an additional exemption to include vendors
participating in the Farmers’ Market. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading. Mayor Moriconi advised that the second reading of the ordinance
would be presented at the regular meeting of April 5, 2010.
Resolution No. 2010-R-03 – Authorizing the Application o the Department of
Local Government for Assistance under the Land & Water Conservation Fund for a
Proposed Recreation Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2010-R-03 that would
authorize the application of a grant with the Land and Water Conservation Fund
for a proposed recreational project in Memorial Park. The grant would fund
fifty-percent of the estimated project cost of $102,000. The project is for
terracing the hillside between the Amphitheater and the Senior Center building.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2010-R-03.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Resolution No. 2010-R-03, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Bushong stated
he would like to clarify that the City would only spend $10,000 as part of the
City’s fifty-percent and that the remainder of the City’s contribution would be
in-kind services. Council Member Cook stated that she does not approve of the
City spending any money on this project. She cited budget problems, recent
termination of two staff members and needed road repairs as reasons why she
felt this project should not be considered. Mayor Moriconi countered that this
is an opportunity for the City to get a valuable, capital park improvement
project completed for a fraction of the actual cost. He stated the City cannot
let an opportunity like this go by when there is a strong chance that an agency
in Northern Kentucky could be awarded this grant. There being no further
discussion, roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast
by Council Members Cook and Franzen. Motion carried 4-2.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 6:56 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 5, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of April 5, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 5,
2010 at 7:00 pm in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the February 1, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, February 1, 2010. Council Member Behler so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. Council Member Little put forth two
amendments; there being no objection the roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 in favor of accepting the minutes as presented
with amendments by Council Member Little.
Approval of the February 11, 2010 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on Thursday, February 11, 2010. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with second by Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the March 22, 2010 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on Monday, March 22, 2010. Council Member Little so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Marty Nie, 12013 Southridge Drive, Walton, Kentucky – As Chairman of the
American Legion Moon Brothers Post 275, Mr. Nie extended an invitation to the
Mayor and Council Members to participate in this year’s Memorial Day parade
which will be held on May 31st and begin at 10:30 a.m. He requested that there
be a limit of one car per candidate for elected office and in the interest of
safety asked that no one throw candy from their vehicle.
Tom Nienaber, 401 Madison Ave., Covington, Kentucky – stated he was
representing his client Larry Hamilton regarding the proposed zoning text
amendment that would permit “pawn shops” to the list of permitted uses within
the NC (Neighborhood Commercial) zone. He stated that Mr. Hamilton appeared
before Council in February to request the City sponsor the text amendment
application. Mayor Moriconi advised that a proposed ordinance to approve the
text amendment was on tonight’s agenda for a first reading.
Ray Baldwin, 34 Sidney Drive, Independence – Mr. Baldwin addressed Council with
concerns he had regarding talk of a neighbor that may ask for a zone change so
that they could begin a pottery business. He stated that Sidney Drive is too
narrow to accommodate business traffic. He stated he also feels that allowing a
business in this residential area would hurt property values. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the City has not received such a request at this time. Mr. Deters
advised Mr. Baldwin that if a zone change was requested all adjacent property
owners would receive notice in the mail advising them of this request.
Donald Barnett, 788 Jimae Avenue, Independence – Mr. Barnett spoke against the
proposed text amendment that would permit “pawn shops” in the Neighborhood
Commercial (NC) zone. He stated that he feels that “pawn shops” would not be a
good reflection on the City and approving this would allow this type of
business in all the neighborhood shopping centers throughout the City.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-05 – Amending Ordinance No. 1-10-84 that Regulates
Solicitor’s License and Fees & Amending Same to Exempt Farmers’ Market Vendors
from Compliance – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-05 that
would amend Ordinance No. 1-10-84 which regulates solicitor’s license and fees.
He stated the proposed amendment would include vendors participating in the
Farmers’ Market to the list of exempted businesses required to purchase a
business license. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2010-O-05 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-05. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook.
Motion carried 5-1.
Award Bid for Lawn Maintenance Contract
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received for the
lawn and park maintenance. He stated that a total of ten bids were submitted.
He advised the City is currently in contract with Malco Services and while the
bid submitted by Malco was not the lowest, it does reflect an overall decrease
from the current 2010/2012 contract extension rates that were submitted in June
2008. Mayor Moriconi commented that Malco has provided good service for the
City.
Council Member Franzen moved to award the lawn and park maintenance contract to
Malco Services as the best bid, seconded by Council Member Yeager. A brief
discussion ensued. Some of the Council Members agreed with Mayor Moriconi that
Malco has provided the City with good service over the years. Council Member
Behler commented that the low bid is not always the best bid. Mayor Moriconi
stated that Malco is a business located in Independence and the owner takes a
personal interest in doing a good job for the City and at times does not charge
for some of the services he renders. He also commented that some of the bids
submitted seemed unrealistically low. Council Member Cook asked if it was legal
to not accept the low bid. Mr. Deters advised that the low bid is just one of
the criteria considered when awarding a bid and the City is not legally
obligated to award the contract to the lowest bidder. Mr. Groth commented that
the City has awarded bids in the past that were not the low bid.
In closing Mayor Moriconi commented that the processed work; in choosing to re-
bid this service instead of extending the current contract the City was able to
save money by receiving bids that were lower overall. There being no further
discussion roll was called and answered unanimously to award the bid to Malco
Services. Motion carried 6-0.
Independence Village – Stage II Development Plan (NKAPC # 10-02-05/2002R)
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a recommendation from the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission to disapprove the Stage II Development Plan for an
approximate 13.3 acre area located at the northwest corner of the intersection
with Madison Pike (new) and Centennial Boulevard. It is being presented to the
City for final action to approve or disapprove the plan. Mayor Moriconi opened
the floor for discussion.
Developer Jim Bertram explained to Council that the Planning Commission
recommended disapproval because of the following three issues:
·   The plan indicated off-street parking spaces directly in front of rental
detached garages
·   The plan omitted a section of the walking trails that were included in the
Stage I development plan
·   The plan indicates an emergency access gate which would be contradictory in
providing vehicular access throughout the development.
Mr. Bertram advised that they have removed the off-street parking spaces that
were directly in front of the garages and still have the required number of
parking spaces for this development. He stated the walking trails were
inadvertently left off of the plan rendering submitted to the Planning
Commission and would be developed in its entirety as shown in the Stage I
Development Plan. Regarding the emergency gate, Mr. Bertram advised that this
gate was on the Stage I Plan, but they would like to control public access to
this residential section of the development. He stated this could deter
criminal activity yet still provide access for public safety (police/fire)
vehicles. There was a brief discussion on how the gate would be controlled. Mr.
Bertram stated the police and fire agencies will have keys for the gate lock.
He stated that criminals don’t like to have only one way in and one way out, so
this gate could deter vandals/robbers in this private community. Captain Tony
Lucas advised Council that the owners of this development have been meeting
with the police depart to review various types of locks to determine which
would work best for this gate. Council Member Little asked if this would be a
liability for the City. Mr. Deters advised it would not and commented that the
fire department carries big universal keys.
Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld advised Council that the three issues,
which Mr. Bertram has addressed, would be considered minor changes.
Mr. Bertram advised that improvement drawings would be submitted to the
Planning Commission after approval from the City on this Stage II Plan. He
stated they hope to begin the construction of this project in a couple of
weeks.
There being no further discussion and having received satisfaction regarding
the three issues discussed Council Member Yeager moved to override the Planning
Commission’s disapproval of the Stage II Development Plan by approving the Plan
based on the following:
1.   A section of the proposed walking trail along the new Madison Pike was
inadvertently omitted from the Stage II Development Plan submitted to the
Planning Commission. The developer has agreed to develop the walking trail in
its entirety.
2.   To waive vehicular access throughout the proposed development thereby
permitting an emergency access gate in the vicinity of Lot 12/Building #4.
3.   The developer has agreed to remove the inappropriate off-street parking
spaces directly in front of any detached garage.
A second was made by Council Member Behler. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment (KCPC 200R) Adding Pawn
Shops to the List of Permitted Uses within the NC Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a zoning text amendment adding “pawn shops” to the list of permitted
uses within the NC (Neighborhood Commercial) zone. Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing ABC Regulations and License Fee Schedule –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
establish an alcoholic beverage control license and the respective fees and
licenses required for alcohol sales within the City limits and revising the
hours when alcohol sales are permitted. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance
a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing Rental Dwelling Licenses – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
create a new chapter of the code of ordinances (Chapter 99) concerning rental
dwelling licenses. He stated this ordinance will pertain to both residential
and commercial rental properties. Mayor Moriconi stated that this is more than
just establishing a rental fee but will lay out standards for maintaining
rental property. He stated that one issue that prompted the proposal of this
ordinance is the inordinate amount of calls for service received by the Police
Department at rental properties. He stated that he does not want to put rental
property in a negative light, but the majority of the police calls are from
apartment complex units. Mayor Moriconi stated that other cities have this type
of ordinance.
Mr. Bertram expressed his concern about adopting this ordinance and commented
that this license and associated fees will affect him and others that own
rental property. Police Captain Tony Lucas advised Council that his department
would submit an exact breakdown of calls for service to the various apartment
complexes at the next Council meeting.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Code of Ethics, Chapter 38 Codes of Ordinances –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Chapter 38 relating to the Code of Ethics by amending the definition of
“family member.” Council Member Franzen asked the Mayor who was sponsoring this
proposed amendment. Council Member Cook responded that she requested this
amendment. She stated she attended a recent Board of Ethics meeting where this
was discussed and it was the Board’s recommendation that this definition be
updated to include more family members. Mr. Deters commented that the proposed
amendment expands the definition of family member. There was a brief discussion
wherein Council Member Little suggested changing the proposed amendment to
include all “step” relations. The Council Members concurred. There being no
further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Nuisance Ordinance, Chapter 93 of the Code of
Ordinances – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Chapter 93 of the code of ordinances relating to nuisances by clarifying
and more specifically defining activities to be considered a nuisance. A brief
discussion ensued. Some Council Members questioned the need for the additional
text and whether it would be enforceable. Council Member Behler commended that
she understood that the Police Chief approved this text and that the department
had an instrument that would register decibel levels. Captain Tony Lucas
advised that they have reviewed the proposed text and it is comparable to other
cities, such as Covington and Erlanger. He stated that Chief Butler is
comfortable with this proposal. He stated they would need to purchase the
decibel meter equipment, but advised having the equipment would not prevent all
noise.
Mr. Deters commented that the proposed text better delineates nuisance types
and provides specifics on what can be declared a nuisance and that it all comes
down to establishing reasonable standards. Council Member Little expressed
concern that the proposed text may be too specific and stated that he feels the
current laws, if enforced could do the same. Captain Lucas commented that the
current ordinance is not specific enough and because it is too broad would get
thrown out of court. Council Member Franzen suggested postponing the first
reading so Council would have more time to review the proposal. After a brief
discussion it was decided to go ahead with the first reading of the proposed
ordinance. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading. Mayor Moriconi
advised Council that Chief Butler would be at the next meeting and give his
input on this proposed ordinance before the second reading.
He stated that the Police Chief feels comfortable with this proposal
Resolution No. 2010-R-04 – Supporting Federal Legislation that would Require
EPA to Consider Affordability and the Financial Capabilities of Communities
when Implementing its Combined Sewer Overflow Control Measures
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2010-R-04 that would support
federal legislation that would require the EPA to consider affordability and
the financial capabilities of communities when implementing Combined Sewer
Overflow control measures. Mr. Groth advised that this resolution basically
opposes unfunded mandates which forces communities to pass on the costs of
conforming to federal law to the consumers by way of increasing taxes and/or
utility rates. He stated this resolution supports the need for communities to
have more flexibility in the development and implementation of long-term
control measures for combined sewer overflow. Mr. Deters read Resolution No.
2010-R-04.
A motion was made by Council Member Behler and seconded by Council Member Cook
to adopt Resolution No. 2010-R-04. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2010-R-05 – Accepting Ownership & Maintenance Responsibility for
the By-passed Segments of KY 1829 (Turkeyfoot
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2010-R-05 that approves the
City accepting title to ownership and maintenance responsibility for the
bypassed segments of KY 1829 (Industrial Road) and reconstructed city streets,
which include West Richardson Road, Beechgrove Drive, Wedgewood Drive,
Clubhouse Drive, Fox Run Drive, Hunters Green Drive, Independence Station
Drive, Lily Drive and East Richardson Road due to the reconstruction of KY 1303
(Turkeyfoot Road).
Mr. Groth advised Council that City staff has met with the State to review the
sections described in the Resolution. He stated that while the City would
assume ownership there would be no real maintenance of these sections of
roadway. There was a brief discussion regarding the section of Independence
Station Drive. Mayor Moriconi stated that this section is maintained by Kenton
County and should be stricken from the Resolution. All were in agreement and
the Independence Station Drive section was stricken from the Resolution.
There being no further discussion, Council Member Franzen moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2010-R-05, seconded by Council Member Behler. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator’s Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that congratulations go to two employees in the Police
Department - Joseph Moffett who graduated on Friday from the Police Academy and
Captain John Lonaker who recently graduated from a ten-week management course
sponsored by the FBI Academy.
Mr. Groth also announced that the new Frisch’s restaurant will officially open
on Monday, April 12th at 7:00 a.m.
Mr. Groth reported that single family residential building is up significantly
over this time last year.
Update on Marshall Road improvements – Mr. Groth stated that the final work to
put down an asphalt overlay would level out the road and expend the remaining
emergency funds received from the State. Council Member Cook expressed concern
that some ditching needs to be done as well.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order No. 2010-EO-01 – Appointment to Senior Board of Directors
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2010-EO-01 appointing Tom Collins
to the Independence Senior Center Board of Directors.
Mayor Moriconi shared some good news - that he received a letter today from the
State Transportation Department notifying the City that they have re-evaluated
the intersection of SR17 (new) and McCullum Road and based on the present
factors they have determined that the intersection warrants a traffic signal.
He stated they did not provide a date by when the signal would be installed but
said it would be in upcoming months. Mayor Moriconi stated that he received
several scary letters about “near misses” at that intersection and thanked
Representative Tom Kerr and Senator Damon Thayer for supporting the City’s
efforts to get a light installed at that intersection.
Mayor Moriconi announced that the City’s Building Inspector Kevin Barbian
recently completed the evaluation process with the ISO (International
Organization for Standardization) Building Code Effectiveness Grading Schedule
which assesses the building codes in effect in a particular community. He
stated Mr. Barbian received a good evaluation grade which will be used in
insurance underwriting. He stated that residents will benefit by this good
rating in the form of a reduction in their property insurance rates.
Adjournment
There being no further business before the Council, Council Member Franzen
moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried
with all ayes and the meeting ended at 8:19 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 3, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 3, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 3,
2010 at 7:00 pm in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the April 5, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, April 5, 2010. Council Member Behler so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Privileges of the Floor
Gailen and Debra Bridges – addressed Council about their plans to work with
Arcadia Publishing on writing a book on the history of the City of Independence
and Southern Kenton County. Mr. Bridges stated they will be soliciting from the
public memorabilia, historic photos and other material for inclusion in the
book. He stated they would like and encourage participation from the community.
The Bridges can be contacted at independencebook@ymail.com.
Bob Schroeder, Arlinghaus Builders – addressed Council with a request for the
City to sponsor a zoning text amendment that would permit wider driveways (as
wide as the width of the opening of a three-car garage). He stated that current
regulations permit a maximum width of 20 feet and would like to see this
increased to 30 feet. Mr. Schroeder stated that his current recourse for
putting in a wider driveway is to go before the City’s Board of Adjustment to
request a variance. He stated it makes more sense to permit this wider
driveway, especially for a three-car garage, and therefore would like to see
the City change this zoning regulation.
A brief discussion ensued. General consensus of the Council was that an
application should be made with the Board of Adjustment for the variance.
Council Member Little felt confident that this type of variance would be
approved by the Board. Council Member Behler agreed and commented that the City
recently upheld the current regulations and ordered several properties that had
unlawfully increased the size of their driveways to come into compliance. Mr.
Schroeder’s request was denied due to lack of consensus to support a text
amendment.
Candace Klein, Graydon Head & Ritchey LLP – Ms. Klein addressed Council on
behalf of her client, Robert Meyers who owns property in the Cherokee Shopping
Center. Ms. Klein stated that Mr. Meyers is working with a potential renter –
Custom Outdoor Creations – who would like to run a seasonal flowers/plants
business between the LaRosa’s and the drugstore. She stated that since this is
a dimensional issue they cannot request a variance from the City’s Board of
Adjustment. Ms. Klein requested the City sponsor a zoning text amendment that
would amend Section 10.15 (E6) to add seasonal garden supply stores as an
exception.
Resolution No. 2010-R-06 – Supporting Text Amendment Application
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2010-R-06 that would
support a zoning text amendment application that would amend Section 10.15 (E6)
adding as an exception “seasonal garden supply stores.” Motion was seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-06 – Establishing ABC Regulations and License Fee Schedule
– 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
establish an alcoholic beverage control license and the respective fees and
licenses required for alcohol sales within the City limits and revising the
hours when alcohol sales are permitted. Mr. Deters read the ordinance.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-06, seconded by
Council Member Behler. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Code of Ethics, Chapter 38 Codes of Ordinances –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Chapter 38 relating to the Code of Ethics by amending the definition of
“family member.” Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
Council Member Cook moved to adopt the proposed ordinance, seconded by Council
Member Behler. After a brief discussion, roll was called and answered with
three ayes cast by Council Members Cook, Behler and Bushong and three no votes
cast by Council Members Franzen, Little and Yeager. Mayor Moriconi broke the
tie vote by casting a no vote. Motion was defeated by a vote of 4-3 and the
proposed ordinance was not adopted.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-07 – Amending Nuisance Ordinance, Chapter 93 of the Code
of Ordinances – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Chapter 93 of the code of ordinances relating to nuisances by clarifying
and more specifically defining activities to be considered a nuisance. Mr.
Deters gave the proposed ordinance a second reading.
Motion was made by Council Member Cook and seconded by Council Member Behler to
adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-07. A lengthy discussion ensued. Council questioned
the police chief about the current nuisance regulations and the lengthy
proposed changes which include definitions of noise nuisances. Chief Butler
advised that the current regulations do not provide definitions of what
constitutes a noise nuisance; only saying “obnoxious emission of noise.” He
stated the courts will not prosecute as it is too vague. Council Member Little
stated he felt that some of the proposed text was good while other sections may
be difficult to enforce. Council Member Behler commented the City’s nuisance
ordinance needs more substance as several complaints received over the last few
years have not been resolved due to the current inadequate regulations. Council
Member Yeager commented that she likes some of the proposed changes, but not
all and she is not prepared to vote in favor of this as presented. Council
Member Franzen agreed that some of the noises, such as loud horns, would be
difficult to enforce as it would be gone by the time the police arrived. Zoning
Administrator Annie Wuestefeld agreed that there is a lot of proposed text, and
that much of it won’t be needed, but if it is then it will be defined in the
City ordinance. She agreed that often times we need to be there to witness the
violation. Council discussed making some changes, but there was concern that it
was important to move forward quickly with summer approaching. Mr. Deters
advised the proposed amendment has eliminated a lot of unknowns by being all-
inclusive. Chief Butler stated his department will not unreasonably enforce any
parts of this proposed ordinance.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with five ayes
and one no vote cast by Council Member Little. Motion carried 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment (KCPC 200R) Adding Pawn
Shops to the List of Permitted Uses within the NC Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a zoning text amendment adding “pawn shops” to the list of permitted
uses within the NC (Neighborhood Commercial) zone.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Tom Nienaber who wished to address Council
as a proponent of this text amendment. Mr. Nienaber advised he was an attorney
representing his client Larry Hamilton who had requested that Council sponsor
this text amendment. Mr. Nienaber stated that the proposed text amendment has
received a recommendation for approval from the staff of the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission and the Kenton County Planning Commission. He advised
that with the exception of alcohol sales there is not a more regulated business
by statute than pawn shops. He stated that historically there have not been
many pawn shops in Northern Kentucky, but they are starting to pop up in more
areas. He stated that when looking at existing land uses permitted in this
neighborhood commercial zone many of the uses already allowed are things that
pawn shops deal with and the vast majority of items are purchased and sold in
retail to the general public. In closing, Mr. Nienaber asked that Mr. Hamilton
be permitted to open the pawn shop at the location in the Beechgrove Shopping
Center. He stated that Mr. Hamilton has experience in this type of business
having operated six pawn shops in Kentucky.
Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a second reading. Council Member Cook
made a motion to adopt the proposed ordinance. Council Member Franzen stated
she opposes this text amendment that would allow pawn shops as a permitted use
in the Neighborhood Commercial zone. She stated she spoke with many residents
about this issue and not one person was in favor of this. No one put forth a
second to Council Member Cook’s motion, therefore the motion died for lack of a
second.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-08– Establishing Rental Dwelling Licenses – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
create a new chapter of the code of ordinances (Chapter 99) concerning rental
dwelling licenses.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-08 seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Mayor Moriconi then opened the floor for discussion
prior to a vote.
A lengthy discussion ensued. Council Members had questions and concerns
regarding the enforcement and annual inspections of the rental property, both
single family houses and multi-family complexes. Zoning Administrator Annie
Wuestefeld advised that it would take some planning for the annual inspections
before issuing a license, but that she and the Building Inspector would work it
out. Mr. Groth suggested that the police could help out if necessary. Council
Member Behler suggested the police are not trained in building code to assist
with inspections. Mayor Moriconi referred to a report supplied by the Police
Chief regarding the number of police calls for service to apartment complexes;
citing 2321 police calls which the Police Chief calculated to equate to an
annual expense of $183,000 police time. Council Member Behler stated that it is
difficult to determine if that is excessive since there is no comparison to
single family rental properties. Chief Butler replied that he had no way to
capture info on single family house rentals. Council Member Cook asked how the
City planned to license rented single family houses if we don’t know which
houses are rentals. Mrs. Wuestefeld advised that initially it would have to be
treated as an honor system and that it would take time before all single family
rentals could be determined.
Council Member Franzen expressed concern that the City is providing services to
renters who don’t pay any city taxes yet take advantage of all City services.
Council member Cook commented that many people cannot afford to purchase a
house and that renters support local businesses and pump their earned dollars
into the City’s economy.
Fred Burns, Green Road, Walton – addressed Council regarding this proposed
rental license and fees. He stated he is currently developing an apartment
complex in the Independence Village. He stated he studied this area and chose
to build here as he knew this was a strong area for this type of complex. He
expressed concern that this licensing fee will cost him an additional $6,000
per year. He didn’t see the need for this program as typically this would be
geared at low income housing and that there is already a federal inspection
program in place for the low income housing. He suggested the City consider a
flat fee charge for properties that require more police services. He stated
that this license and fee seems punitive to him. He stated the City will
collect a significant amount of property taxes for this development than for
the vacant land.
Doug Hauke – Also addressed Council regarding his opposition to this ordinance.
He expressed his displeasure that the vast majority will have to pay for the
few that don’t keep their properties up to code.
At this time there was a discussion on the extensive report provided to the
Council by the Police Chief. He advised that the report was for the 2321 calls
for service to 1300 apartment units citywide.
Council Member Behler commented that she understands this is a challenging year
for the budget but doesn’t want to pass this just for the revenue it would
generate. She stated she is concerned that it will cost more to enforce than
the revenue it will generate. She stated she would only vote for this if it
would be instrumental in keeping the citizens safe. She wondered if $40.00 per
unit would even be enough to accomplish all that was actually needed to do
that. Mayor Moriconi commented that it would be a net loss if taking into
consideration all the police time spend on calls for service.
Council Member Behler also expressed concern that this license/fee would not be
fair, since there will be no way to determine all the single family houses
being rented. Council Member Cook stated that the inspection part of the
licensing bothers her. She discussed the HUD inspection process and how
escrowed funds are withheld causing the property owner to lose subsidy from
government. She stated that additional inspections by the City would be
redundant in subsidized complexes and would run off good landlords. Council
Member Little asked how long it takes to inspect a unit. Council Member Cook
responded 10-15 minutes per unit and that HUD requires only 10% of a complex to
be inspected. Council Member Franzen commented that the HUD system does not
work.
Council Member Behler asked that the second reading of this ordinance be tabled
til next month until she could obtain more information. She would like to know
what percentage of the rental housing in the city is subsidized, etc. She
stated she feels that the way the ordinance is written that it cannot be
enforced fairly. Council Member Behler made a motion to table this until the
June meeting. The motion died for lack of a second.
Council Member Behler asked Mrs. Wuestefeld to look over the Police Chief’s
report and cross reference with the zoning/building code complaints she has
received. Mrs. Wuestefeld commented that the last couple years she has not
received any complaints. Council Member Little asked the Police Chief for stats
on drugs and theft. He replied that the stats could have been driven higher but
they were cautious in their reporting.
The discussion ended and Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2010-O-08 a second
reading. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by
Council Members Behler and Cook. Motion carried 4-2
Award Bid for Arbor Court Road Repairs
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the tabulated results of the bids received
by the City for the road improvements for Arbor Court.
City Administrator Dan Groth reported that the improvements to Arbor Court were
in two parts. He stated that Part A was the City road improvements and Part B
was the water main improvements that would be funded by Northern Kentucky Water
District. He advised this was a collaborative bidding process with the Water
District. The City received five bids for the road improvements and he, along
with the Public Works Director, is recommending that the City award the project
to Len Riegler Blacktop who placed the low bid of $131,087.50. He stated the
City Engineer is recommending under-surfacing, but he feels that it is not a
necessary expense and would cost an extra $38,000. Mr. Groth stated that that
money could be better utilized elsewhere in the city, such as the sidewalks in
the area of Simon Kenton High School.
Council Member Franzen moved to award the Arbor Court road improvements project
to Len Riegler Blacktop in the amount of $131,087.50, seconded by Council
Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no cast by
Council Member Cook. Motion carried 5-1.
Amendment to Rental Agreement for the Senior Center
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for consideration a revised Senior Center
Rental Agreement. He stated that Nita Brake has been researching similar
agreements with other cities and the proposed amendments are a result of this
research.
Mr. Groth stated the proposed increase of rental fees would cover the actual
cost of cleanup of the center after each event. Ms. Brake commented that this
rental agreement was last updated in 2005 and the City has seen an increase in
maintenance charges over the last five years. She stated that the fee charged
to residents has not been increased in eight years.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the City should not lose money on rentals which
would be subsidizing private parties and events in the center. Ms. Brake stated
the proposed fee increase would take effect on July 1, 2010 but would not
affect existing signed agreements as the City will honor those. She distributed
to Council a list of fees charged by other cities that own a Senior Center or
Community Center.
A motion was made by Council Member Behler and seconded by Council Member
Little to approve the amended Senior Center Rental Agreement. Roll was called
and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion
carried 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Chapter 91 of the Code of Ordinances Adding a New
Section Dealing with Removal of Dog Excrement – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would amend
Chapter 91 of the code of ordinances by adding a new section dealing with dog
excrement removal. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Mr. Groth explained to Council the City has received several complaints this
past winter that pet owners would allow their dogs to go on the sidewalks and
then not clean it up.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the 2009/2010 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend the 2009/10 budget. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2010/2011 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt a budget for the 2010/2011 fiscal year. In his prepared budget
message he outlined the key elements of this budget which included the
following:
·   The proposed budget is based on maintaining the current property tax rate
·   No raises will be given to the employees
·   No new capital projects
·   No new fleet vehicles for the Police Department or Public Services
Department
·   Expenses have been reduced by over $400,000 compared to the current year
amended budget to offset declines in projected revenues from single family
building permits
·   Projected reserves at the end of the budget year are $1,844,482.
·   The proposed budget is balanced
Mayor Moriconi stated he feels this proposed budget maintains quality services
for the citizens and continues to maintain sufficient reserves for emergencies.
Council Member Cook asked if Council Members could have individual meetings
with staff to review the budget closer. Mr. Groth and Mayor Moriconi commented
that meetings could be arranged. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the Employee Pay and Classification Plan – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will
adopt a Pay and Classification Plan for the 2010/2011 fiscal year. Council
Member Cook asked what percent increase was being proposed. Mr. Groth advised
that generally the pay ranges increase by an average of 3-5%, but not this
year. Mayor Moriconi advised Council that there is no change in the employee
pay ranges this year as no pay raises will be given this year. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth had one announcement; he advised that the NKAPC would be holding a
public forum on The Hills development, which will be held at the Lakeside
Christian Church tomorrow (May 4, 2010) from 6-8:30 p.m.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Resolution No. 2010-R-08 – Authorizing Homeland Security Grant Applications for
Mobile Data Computers and Portable Radios
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2010-R-08 that would
authorize the application of a Homeland Security Grant for the purchase of
mobile data computers and radios for the Police Department. Chief Butler
advised this is not a matching grant and so the purchase will be fully funded
by the grant, if awarded to the City. These would be replacements in some of
the vehicles.
Council Member Behler moved to adopt Resolution No. 2010-R-08, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion
carried 6-0.
Proclamation – Declaring May as Building Safety Month
Mayor Moriconi read a proclamation declaring May as Building Safety Month.
Announcement
Mayor Moriconi announced that the Memorial Day Parade would take place on
Monday, May 31, 2010. The parade route will start at Memorial Park and end at
the Kenton County Courthouse. The parade will begin at 10:00 a.m.
AT&T Cell Tower Opposition
Council Member Franzen made a motion to oppose the placement of the proposed
AT&T cell tower at 5257 Madison Pike, which is in the heart of the historic
downtown area. Council Member Yeager seconded the motion. Roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion
carried 5-1.
Council Member Cook commented that she did not feel it was appropriate for the
City to take a position on this cell tower issue as the City has no say in it.
Council Members Franzen and Yeager responded by saying they are allowed to have
an opinion.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Behler moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:27 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 7, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 7, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 7,
2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Proclamation presented to Marian Cummins, Independence Resident and The
Enquirer’s Women of the Year
Mayor Moriconi introduced and welcomed Independence resident Marian Cummins. He
stated that the City is excited and honored to have Mrs. Cummins here. He
stated that Mrs. Cummins has been recognized as one of ten women chosen by The
Enquirer to be awarded the honor of Women of the Year. Mayor Moriconi presented
Mrs. Cummins with a Proclamation expounding on her long and distinguished
career in private business and public service. Mrs. Cummins’ personal and
professional achievements include being a co-founder of the Nurse Advocacy
Center for the Underserved at Northern Kentucky University which provides nurse
volunteers to social service agencies as well as a mentor to nursing students,
volunteer and part time educator at NKU.
Mrs. Cummins thanked Mayor Moriconi and Council and stated that she has lived
in this community for thirty-four years and to receive this special recognition
from her community is particularly rewarding to her.
Presentation by Ann Brandon, Senior Public Education Specialist of the Women’s
Crisis Center Regarding Green Dot Intervention Program
Mayor Moriconi welcomed and introduced Ms. Ann Brandon who is the Senior Public
Education Specialist of the Women’s Crisis Center who would speak about the
Green Dot Intervention Program.
Ms. Brandon informed Council that Independence will be in the national
spotlight as Simon Kenton High School has been chosen to be part of the Green
Dot intervention program which is a national study that will train the students
to recognize violent situations. She stated this is a program that is funded by
the CDC. Ms. Brandon added that while Independence is not a violent community
this program will engage the high school students through education and skills
practice regarding violence and teach intervention techniques with the hopes of
reducing violence in our society. She stated that Phase 1 & 2 have been
completed at the school. In closing, Ms. Brandon stated that Simon Kenton High
School will be the national model and that Kenton County is the first county in
the nation that has done this.
Approval of the May 3, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, May 3, 2010. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. One amendment was noted by Council Member
Behler; there being no objection roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-09 - Amending Chapter 91 of the Code of Ordinances Adding
a New Section Dealing with Removal of Dog Excrement – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-09 that
would amend Chapter 91 of the code of ordinances by adding a new section
dealing with dog excrement removal. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2010-O-09 a
second reading.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-09 seconded by
Council Member Behler. Council Member Cook asked how the ordinance would be
enforced. A brief discussion ensued and everyone concurred that the dog/owner
would have to be caught in the act in order to enforce this ordinance. There
being no further discussion roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-10 - Amending the 2009/2010 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-
10 that would amend the 2009/10 budget. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2010-O-10
a second reading.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-10 seconded by
Council Member Little. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-11 - Adopting the 2010/2011 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-11 that
adopts a budget for the 2010-2011 fiscal year. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No.
2010-O-11 a second reading.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-11, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Behler
expressed concerns that the projected revenue for the rental unit fee will not
cover the cost to administer and collect. She stated she is concerned that the
City will expend more funds in staff labor to make annual inspections to
enforce the fee/license than the City will receive in revenue that will be
collected from the fee. Mayor Moriconi stated for the record that he doesn’t
want to expend more than the City would collect, but that collection and
enforcement would not even begin until 2011. Council Member Behler stated that
she also believes the licensing of rental units will be hard to enforce. Mayor
Moriconi stated that he feels a system is in place that will enable us to
locate most properties that are rentals. He stated that if the license/fee does
not accomplish the goals the City hoped for then the Council may want to
reconsider this next year. Council Member Bushong suggested tracking staff
hours to get an idea of the amount of hours it costs to enforce this ordinance.
He stated he would be willing to look at this in a year to see if it is paying
for itself. Council Member Behler commented that it was mentioned at the last
meeting that the projected revenue would not even cover the police calls for
service hours spent at the apartment complexes. Mayor Moriconi stated that
while it will not fully cover the police time that it will somewhat offset the
police expense. Mr. Groth commented that the rental unit license will require
landlords to meet minimum building code standards before a license will be
issued to permit the unit to be rented. Council Member Behler advised that she
would be voting no on the budget ordinance and just wanted to say that she
believes this revenue line item will effect the budget in the long run. Mayor
Moriconi commented that he did not believe it was hurting the budget and would
actually provide some enforcement and offset some of the expense of police time
spent at the rental complexes.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with five ayes
and one no vote cast by Council Member Behler. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-12 - Amending the Employee Pay and Classification Plan –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading a Ordinance No. 2010-O-12 that
will adopt a Pay and Classification Plan for the 2010/2011 fiscal year. Mr.
Deters gave Ordinance No. 2010-O-12 a second reading.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-12, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2010-R-09 – Sponsoring a Text Amendment Application Regarding
Off-Street Parking Regulations
Mayor Moriconi introduced Resolution No. 2010-R-09 that would support the City
making application for a zoning text amendment to amend Article 11 Off-street
parking and access control regulations, Section 11.2. The text amendments would
affect Section 11.2 (T) Offices for professional, business, financial, real
estate and other business: Section 11.2 (W) Retail and personal service, and
Section 11.2 (Z) Shopping Centers by decreasing the number of parking spaces
required for those affected zones
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Yeager asked what prompted these
proposed text changes. Mayor Moriconi advised that he has had several
businesses approach him about these parking regulations. He stated he has
discussed this with Mrs. Wuestefeld and learned that the City’s parking
regulations are more restrictive that other communities in this area. He stated
that the proposed changes have been modeled after the City of Fort Wright. Mr.
Deters advised that developers pay high dollar for commercial property and a
portion of that is higher price for more parking areas. Mrs. Wuestefeld
commented that the developers can’t meet the parking requirements for the
current available lots in the City. She stated that many prospective developers
leave when they become aware they can’t meet the City’s parking requirements.
She stated that only three types of business uses would be affected in this
section of the zoning text.
There being no further discussion, Council Member Cook moved to approve
Resolution No. 2010-R-09, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that Simon Kenton High School is undergoing a complete
renovation of their parking lot area in the front of the school building. He
stated they will be installing a side walk area as well. Mr. Groth advised that
the City would complete the sidewalk area from the school to the intersection
of Shaw Road and Madison Pike.
Mr. Groth announced that the Police Department’s new recruit - Jeff Young - has
graduated from the Police Academy last week and was valedictorian of his class.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported that this year’s July 4th fireworks celebration will be
held on July 2 & 3 and that the City has received $29,500 in corporate/business
donations to offset the cost of this event. He stated this is an increase of
$5,000 over last year’s donations, which is incredible considering the weak
economy. Mayor Moriconi advised he would recognize these sponsors in the June
newsletter. He thanked Tony Lucas, Nita Brake, Shawn Butler and Council Member
Yeager for all their efforts in soliciting the private donations for the
fireworks.
Mayor Moriconi reported that the restrooms located in the Shadybrook
subdivision has been the target of vandals so it has been decided to keep the
restroom building locked unless there is a sport activity taking place at the
park.
Mayor Moriconi advised that Flag Day is June 14th and there will be a flag
burning ceremony held at Sterling Staggs Park at 7:00 p.m. on that day.
In closing, Mayor Moriconi announced and congratulated the seniors at the
Independence Senior Center who are the proud champs of this year’s Wii bowling
tournament.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Behler reported that the monument sign at the entrance of the
Lakefield subdivision is currently being maintained by the City as the property
on which the sign is located has been vacated. She stated these monument signs
are not a problem if they are maintained by a Homeowners’ Association, but are
a problem when they are located on private property, which concerns her.
Mrs. Wuestefeld advised that most monument signs are located on private
property and the property owner generally signs an agreement to maintain the
area. If not maintained, then the City mows the area and liens the property
owner as it is the property owners responsibility to maintain this sign area.
Council Member asked if July 12th would be the next meeting. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the City observes the July 4th holiday on Monday July 5th and the
City’s ordinance states that if the regular meeting falls on a holiday or
observed holiday, then the meeting would fall to the second Monday of the
month.
Executive Session
At 7:43 p.m. Mr. Deters requested an executive session in accordance with
K.R.S. 61.810 (b) for deliberations on possible future acquisition or sale of
real property. Council member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member
Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:57 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to resume the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. The motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Behler moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:57 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 12, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 12, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 12,
2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the June 7, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, June 7, 2010. Council Member Yeager so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen. There being no amendments noted, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property
Mayor Moriconi presented a list of four police cruisers that have been taken
out of service by the Police Chief and is requesting they be declared as
surplus property so they can be sold at a public auction on August 28, 2010.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by Council Member Bushong. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Permitting Exterior
Sales of Seasonal Garden Supplies and Plantings in the NSC Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
accept the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve a zoning text
amendment changing the developmental controls within the NSC (Neighborhood
Shopping Center) zone to allow for the exterior sales of seasonal garden
supplies and plantings. There was a brief discussion wherein Mr. Deters
explained this amendment would allow proprietors to have exterior sales without
the burden of losing interior commercial space. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance.
Resolution No. 2010-R-10 – Support of HR 3745 – the Community Access
Preservation Act (CAP)
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2010-R-10 that would support
the immediate passage of HR 3745 and urge Congressional delegation to take all
possible actions in support of its passage. HR 3745 would address challenges
faced by public, educational and government (PEG) TV channels and community
access television stations. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2010-R-10.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2010-R-10, seconded by
Council Member Little. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2010-R-11 – Approving the MRA Cooperative Agreement with the
Transportation Cabinet
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2010-R-11 which would
approve the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program contract with the State
Transportation Cabinet for the 2010-2011 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2010-R-11.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2010-R-11, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the Kenton County Planning Commission will hold a
public hearing on August 6, 2010 for a proposed cell tower by Cincinnati Bell
to be located behind the Cherokee Shopping Center near the LaRosa’s
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported the residents of Shadybrook Subdivision have submitted
a petition (attached to these minutes) to the City requesting the City purchase
and install playground equipment in the Shadybrook Park. Mayor Moriconi
commented that this park is mainly used for soccer fields. A brief discussion
ensued regarding the recent rash of vandalism to the restroom facility in this
park and concern about installing playground equipment that would also be
vandalized. Mr. Groth stated that funds are currently not available to fulfill
this request by the residents. He stated he would let them know that their
request would be considered as funds become available.
Mayor Moriconi acknowledged the many sponsors and volunteers that made for a
successful July 4th Celebration. He commented that many people work behind the
scenes as well and thanked everyone for their efforts. He stated the event was
virtually problem free, with no police arrests, which speaks highly of this
family-friendly event. He stated the police estimate that 15,000-18,000 people
came out to watch the fireworks display on Saturday night. Council Member
Franzen thanked Captain Tony Lucas for spearheading this event each year.
Executive Session
At 7:16 p.m. Council Member Little requested an executive session in accordance
with K.R.S. 61.810 (b) for deliberations on possible future acquisition or sale
of real property, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all
ayes.
At 7:38 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to resume the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. The motion carried with all ayes.
No action resulted from the Executive Session
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Behler moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 2, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 2, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 2,
2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Mary Pat
Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, and Donna Yeager. Council
Member Mike Little was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the July 12, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, July 12, 2010. Council Member Behler so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen. There being no amendments noted, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Presentation of Proposed Beck Financial Center at Independence Towne Center
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mr. Richard Wuest with K4 Architecture, LLC who would
present a proposal for a professional office building (Beck Financial Center)
in the Independence Towne Center.
Mr. Wuest distributed a design concept of the professional office building
which included a vicinity map, site plan and front elevation rendering. He
stated the three-story; 36,000 square foot building would be located off of
Declaration Drive. He stated the location would have good sight flow and have
two locations for ingress/egress. Mr. Wuest pointed out that all four
elevations of the building have unique architectural design consisting of a cut
stone base and federal style windows which will be consistent with the
historical elements seen in existing structures in this area. He stated it will
also have a cupola as required on all the structures in the Towne Center
development. He stated the proposed building will also have tower elements on
all four corners of the building.
Mayor Moriconi commented that no action is being asked of the Council at this
time. He stated he is excited about this proposal and wanted to share this plan
with everyone. Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Wuest for his informational
presentation and hoped to see the realization of his development plan in the
near future.
Presentation
Mayor Moriconi welcomed back Gailen and Debbie Bridges who were present to
provide the City Council with an update on their progress in compiling photos
and other information for the history book on Independence they are writing in
collaboration with Arcadia Publishing.
Mr. Bridges stated they commenced this book project approximately three months
ago and has compiled a good collection of old photographs that local citizens
are finding in old dresser drawers and stored in attics and basements. He
stated they are having fun and getting a lot of good documents and photos to
include in this publication. He stated they have received so many pictures of
the Independence High School that he could probably do a separate book just on
the high school building. Mr. Bridges presented a slide show of some of the
photos he has collected so far. He reminded everyone that they can send
information or contact him at independencebook@ymail.com. Mayor Moriconi asked
when they could expect the book to be published. Mr. Bridges advised that he
believes the book will be published and available by Memorial Day of 2011.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-13 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Permitting Exterior
Sales of Seasonal Garden Supplies and Plantings in the NSC Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-13, an
ordinance that would accept the Planning Commission’s recommendation to approve
a zoning text amendment changing the developmental controls within the NSC
(Neighborhood Shopping Center) zone to allow for the exterior sales of seasonal
garden supplies and plantings. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2010-O-13.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-13, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. No discussion. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Award Bid for 2010 Street Repair Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received for the
2010 Street Repairs. He stated the Public Services employees did the curb tear
out and restoration and the City received five bids for the resurfacing of
Appeals Court, Circuit Court and Supreme Court in the Courthouse Estates
subdivision. Mr. Groth advised that the City Engineer estimated the resurfacing
of these streets would be approximately $185,000, but the low bid, submitted by
Len Riegler Blacktop, was almost $40,000 lower than that estimate, coming in at
$147,060.00.
Council Member Behler moved to award the bid to Len Riegler Blacktop, seconded
by Council Member Bushong. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Declare Surplus Property
Mayor Moriconi presented a 2000 Ford Crown Vic vehicle that has been taken out
of service and is requesting that it be declared as surplus property to be sold
at public auction on August 28, 2010. He stated the auction will be held at the
Kenton County Garage on Independence Station Road.
Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by Council Member Franzen. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the City has been awarded a grant from Homeland
Security in the amount of $9,095 for the purchase of five vests for the Police
Department.
He also advised that a public meeting on possible zone changes will be held
here on Tuesday, August 31, 2010 from 7-9 p.m. He stated the public hearing
will be facilitated by the staff of the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission and that citizen input is being sought on proposed zone changes. He
stated the changes are being pursued as part of an effort to implement the
Independence Small Area Study that was approved by the City in 2007.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that the Police Department will hold their annual golf
outing fundraiser on Saturday, September 25, 2010.
The Mayor also reminded everyone that the next regular meeting would be held on
the second Monday in September (September 13, 2010) due to the Labor Day
holiday falling on the first Monday.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:33 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 31, 2010
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 31, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Tuesday, August 31, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Jim Bushong, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen,
and Donna Yeager. Absent was Council Member Mike Little. Also present was City
Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this Special meeting of Council
was being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Property Tax Rates for 2010 – 1st Reading
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Property Tax Rates for 2010 – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the 2010 real estate and personal property tax rates. He stated the
proposed ordinance establishes the ad valorem tax on real estate property at
$0.200 dollars for each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed value and a
personal property tax rate of $0.596 dollars for each one hundred dollars
($100.00). He advised these are the same rates adopted last year (2009). He
advised that this year’s real property compensating rate was calculated to be
$0.220 which would bring in $269,565 and a mid-way rate of $0.210 would produce
$133,676 in additional revenue. Mayor Moriconi commented that the City has
refrained from taking the compensating rate for the last few years due to the
downturn in the economy, but that, at some point it will no longer be
sustainable for the City to continue to adopt prior year’s tax rates.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance. Mayor Moriconi advised that the
ordinance would be presented for a second reading at the regular meeting of
September 13, 2010.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 6:04 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 13, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 13, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
13, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little
and Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim Bushong was absent. Also present was City
Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the August 2, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, August 2, 2010. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. There being no amendments noted, roll was
called and answered with four ayes and one abstention from Council Member
Little. Motion carried.
Approval of the August 31, 2010 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on Tuesday, August 31, 2010. Council Member Behler so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered with four ayes and one abstention from Council Member Little. Motion
carried.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-14 – Adopting 2010 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-14 that
would adopt the 2010 property tax rates for real estate and personal property.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2010-O-14 establishing the ad valorem tax on real
estate property at $0.200 dollars for each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
assessed value and a personal property tax rate of $0.596 dollars for each one
hundred dollars ($100.00) – the same rates that were adopted in 2009.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2010-O-14, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
Proclamation Declaring September as National Preparedness Month
Mayor Moriconi read a Proclamation declaring September as National Preparedness
Month encouraging all citizens and businesses to develop their own emergency
preparedness plan. Mayor Moriconi announced three websites – www.listo.gov;
www.nkrcc.org; and www.homelandsecurity.ky.gov – that would provide more
information on developing a plan.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Reducing the Number of
Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for Retail and Service Uses, Professional
Offices, and Shopping Centers – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading an ordinance that would accept the
recommendation of the Northern Kentucky Planning Commission (Number 2014R) and
approve a zoning text amendment to reduce the number of required off-street
parking spaces for retail and service uses, professional offices and shopping
centers. City Administrator, Dan Groth commented that this amendment would be
in keeping with the current regulations of other Northern Kentucky communities.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced that on Thursday, September 16th Papa John’s Pizza will
donate 20% of their sales to the Independence Senior Center Program Fund and as
a thank you for the support they will also discount all orders by 20%. Mr.
Groth urged everyone to support this fundraiser.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi acknowledged the Public Works crew for installing the new
sidewalks in the vicinity of Simon Kenton High School. He stated the City now
has sidewalks along Madison Pike from school-to-school; connecting Summit View
Schools and Simon Kenton High School. He said they are a small crew and wanted
to thank them for all their hard work. Council Members Franzen and Yeager
stated they have received many nice complements about the sidewalks. Council
Member Franzen stated the area in front of the High School is a small area but
gets a lot of traffic.
Privileges of the Floor
Don Nienabor, 66 McCullum, Independence – requested the Public Works Department
re-install the Don Victor street sign. He advised it has been down for some
time.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Cook advised there were overgrown weeds in front of the Hartland
Subdivision which have been cleared by the Public Works Department. Mayor
Moriconi commented that the area is maintained by the State Highway Department
but that it is generally quicker for the City do to it than to wait on the
Highway Department.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Behler moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:12 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 4, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 4, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
4, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Margaret Cook, Carol Franzen, Mike Little
and Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim Bushong was absent. Also present was City
Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the September 13, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, September 13, 2010. Council Member Behler so moved,
with second by Council Member Little. There being no amendments noted, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Steering Committee Update – Jenna Haverkos, NKAPC Principal Planner & Chris
Reinersman, Committee Vice-Chairman
Ms. Haverkos reported the Steering Committee is working on form based zoning
codes for the Downtown Study area and held a public meeting on August 31, 2010
to obtain citizen input on form based zoning codes. The Committee heard
suggestions from the citizens on their desires for future zoning for the area
as well as zoning they do not desire for this area of the city. They discussed
identifying the boundaries of the area and preferred zoning tools. She stated
that staff will work on a draft of text changes that will be proposed and will
update the Kenton County Planning Commission.
Mr. Reinersman reported that the major recommendation of the Small Area Study
was to update the zoning along the new (re-routed) section of SR17 and McCullum
Road area. He stated the Planning Commission staff has been helpful in guiding
the Steering Committee in this process and working with them in proposing a
zoning code that meets the desires of the City. He stated they have general
ideas for proposed regulations and will begin to narrow down the plans. He
stated that Council can expect to have the Committee’s recommendations in March
of 2011.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Reinersman, Ms. Haverkos and the Committee members
for their time and dedication to this project.
Privileges of the Floor
Mr. Joe Gormally, General Manager of Snap Fitness on Declaration Drive – Mr.
Gormally gave a presentation to Council on the new Snap Fitness that has opened
on Declaration Drive. He stated this is a 3300 sq. ft., 24-hour facility which
is staffed from 6:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. each day. He spoke to Council about
the Snap Fitness worksite health promotion and the benefits of a proactive
health management program for City employees. He stated there is a high rate of
return on the investment thereby decreasing the City’s employee healthcare
costs. He advised the Independence Snap Fitness would open on October 15th and
is the first of several that will be opening in this area. He invited everyone
to attend the Open House on October 22nd, with the ribbon cutting ceremony at
1:00 p.m.
Henry Covey, 16 Alvin Drive, Independence – Mr. Covey addressed Council
regarding the problem he is having with people on Shaw Road riding four-
wheelers (Quads) on his property. Mayor Moriconi advised that Quads are allowed
in the City. Mr. Covey asked that they be restricted to a certain amount of
acreage.
Council Member Little stated that he considered this disturbance to Mr. Covey
to be enforced under the City’s nuisance ordinance. A brief discussion ensued
with Mr. Covey regarding his concern and it was decided that the nuisance
ordinance would be used to enforce this and the City’s patrol officers would be
advised.
Rita Hauck, 5246 Oakview Court, Independence – advised Council that the
Hartland Subdivision has experienced a recent influx of door-to-door sales
people who are very persistent and won’t take no for an answer. She stated that
when police officers are called the sales people produce a county business
license but not a license from the City. She stated she is concerned for the
safety of the residents. Mr. Groth and Mayor Moriconi explained that the sales
people should be able to show a City solicitor license in addition to an
occupational license. The City Clerk provided a brief explanation of the
difference between a “solicitor” license for door-to-door sales and an
occupational license issued by the County office. Ms. Hauck asked that the
police officers be informed of the solicitor license. Council Members and the
Mayor agreed that this information about a solicitor license would be
publicized on the City’s website, Facebook page and City newsletter.
Ordinance No. 2010-O-15– Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Reducing the Number
of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces for Retail and Service Uses, Professional
Offices, and Shopping Centers – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2010-O-15 that
would accept the recommendation of the Northern Kentucky Planning Commission
(Number 2014R) and approve a zoning text amendment to reduce the number of
required off-street parking spaces for retail and service uses, professional
offices and shopping centers. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2010-O-15.
There being no discussion, Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No.
2010-O-15, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Discussion regarding Zoning Violation Process
Mayor Moriconi advised Council there have been some concerns expressed to him
regarding the City’s zoning violation process with particular concern regarding
the chronic violators. Council Member Little stated the current process for
violations gives the owner thirty days to come into compliance, which they do
and the violation case is closed out and then within a few weeks the violation
re-occurs and the process starts over again. He stated this seems to be an on-
going process with several property owners who are aware of the loop hole in
the law. Mr. Groth advised that the City’s process is mandated by State law, so
the City’s options in changing this process may be very limited. A brief
discussion ensued resulting in the City Attorney advising he would research
possible options for the City regarding the repeat offenders of zoning
violations.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced the State Highway Department has installed a traffic light
at the intersection of the new SR17 and McCullum Road. He also announced that a
household waste collection event would be held on Saturday, November 6th at
Turfway Park in Florence.
Mr. Groth reported that upcoming City events are the Howl-O-Ween Pet Costume
Contest on Saturday, October 16 at 10:00 at Memorial Park and the F.O.P Haunted
Trail on October 23rd at 6:00 p.m. at Memorial Park.
Council Member Behler announced that a free concert would be held at the
Memorial Park Amphitheater on Saturday, October 30th from 3-6 pm in celebration
of Make a Difference Day supporting Milestones Equestrian Achievement Program
which is a not for profit therapeutic horseback riding program for individuals
with disabilities.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that Trick-or-Treat hours for Halloween this year
would be from 6-8 pm on Sunday, October 31st.
Mayor Moriconi also announced that the Tea Party of Northern Kentucky would
hold a Rally on Saturday, October 23rd from 1-5 pm at the Memorial Park
Amphitheater.
Mayor Moriconi stated that he will possibly cancel the November meeting due to
lack of business. He stated he would let Council know as soon as possible if
the meeting will be cancelled.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 6, 2010
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 6, 2010
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
6, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Mary Pat Behler, Margaret Cook, Mike Little and Donna
Yeager. Council Member Carol Franzen was absent. Also present was City Attorney
Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the October 4, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, October 4, 2010. Council Member Behler so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. There being no amendments noted, roll was
called and answered with four ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook.
Motion carried 4-1.
Privileges of the Floor
Rita Hauck, 5246 Oakview Court, Independence – addressed Council to inform them
that she has learned that one of the newly elected Council Members, who will
take office in January, does not have a county or city occupational license and
is not paying associated taxes. She stated this person is a member of the
Independence Business Association and that other members of that Association
are not paying business license fees as well.
Resolution No. 2010-R-12 – Supporting a Text Amendment Application Relating to
Sign Regulations
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2010-R-12 that would support
a text amendment application to the Zoning Ordinance and would amend sign
regulations in the professional office districts, general business and
commercial districts and industrial districts. Mr. Deters read Resolution No.
2010-R-12.
There being no discussion, Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No.
2010-R-12, seconded by Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered with
four ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 4-1.
Declare Surplus Property
Mayor Moriconi advised Council the City administration office has two pieces of
outdated office equipment no longer being used and need to be declared surplus.
The items to be disposed of are a Lanier 5635 Copier and a Brother 4100
Intellifax Fax machine. Mr. Groth advised that KRS 82.083 regulates the
disposition of City property and allows the City to take bids or transfer with
or without compensation to another governmental agency. He stated that the City
of Ryland Heights is in need of a copier and fax machine and ask that Council
consider donating the equipment to them.
Council Member Behler made a motion to declare the copier and fax machines as
surplus property and donate the equipment to the City of Ryland Heights.
Council Member Bushong seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Changing Speed Limit on Centennial Blvd., Declaration
Drive & Delaware Crossing – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would change the speed limit on Centennial Boulevard as it extends between
Old KY17 and the new relocated KY17 and the speed limit on Declaration Drive,
both from 20 miles per hour to 30 miles per hour. Mr. Groth advised that
Kentucky state law allows a speed limit of 35 mph in a commercial district.
Council Member Cook suggested that Delaware Crossing also be changed to 30 mph.
There was consensus among Council to include Delaware Crossing as well. Mr.
Deters made the change to the proposed ordinance and then gave it a first
reading. Mayor Moriconi advised the ordinance would have a second reading in
January.
Proposed Ordinance – Amend Current Building Fee Schedule to Include a Fee for
HVAC Inspections – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would repeal Ordinance No. 2007-O-21, which regulates the schedule of
building and zoning permit fees, and adopt a new schedule of permit fees that
will include permit fees for HVAC inspections. He stated this new fee schedule
will become effective January 1, 2011.
Mr. Kevin Barbian, the city’s Building Inspector, advised Council that HVAC
inspections is a new state requirement and will be regulated in a similar
manner to that of electric and plumbing. Council Member Bushong asked if the
fees/inspections would be for new or upgraded items. Mr. Barbian advised that
both new and upgraded systems would require a permit and inspection.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance to
adopt the new schedule of building and zoning application fees.
Proposed Ordinance – Amend Current Sidewalk Maintenance – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that will amend Chapter 95 of the code of ordinances by adding a new section
delegating responsibility for sidewalks to the property owners. Mr. Groth
advised Council that he contacted twelve local cities regarding this proposal
and learned that half of the cities take care of the sidewalks and the other
half require property owners to provide the upkeep of the sidewalks that abut
their property. Council Member Bushong questioned the liability aspect. Mr.
Deters advised that it would have no effect whatsoever as both the property
owner and City would probably be involved in a liability lawsuit if one should
arise. Mr. Groth commented that for a City the size of Independence it is a
financial hardship to undertake full responsibility of all sidewalk
infrastructures. In response to Council Member Yeager’s question, he advised
that this would apply to all new subdivisions. There being no further
discussion, Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced that the Lou Noll Symposium will be held on Saturday,
February 12, 2011 from 8 a.m. until noon. He stated this is put on by the
NKAPC, SD1, Water District and TANK. He stated this is a good workshop for city
officials and urged everyone to attend.
He reported that the new ‘’city limit’ signs have been ordered through KDOT and
should be installed with the next two weeks at no cost to the City.
He stated that Council Member Yeager has suggested the City conduct a Job Fair
this spring at the Senior Center, so he will be working with the Chamber of
Commerce on this project.
Mr. Groth also reported that the City will make a grant application again this
year for the project of terracing the area at Memorial Park between the Senior
Center and the Amphitheater. He stated this will enhance the use of the
Amphitheater and make it more handicap accessible.
He announced that the City will hold a Breakfast with Blitzen on Saturday,
December 11th at 10:00 a.m. He stated the cost is $5.00/person for a pancake
and sausage breakfast and that goodie bags will be distributed and Walgreens
will be providing photos with Blitzen.
In closing, Mr. Groth reported that he had a call from a resident who said they
had a great time at the Christmas Walk on Saturday. The caller stated they had
five children, had a great time and didn’t spend a dime. He thanked the
Independence Business Assn. and everyone that participated in making the
Christmas Walk a successful event this year.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report but requested and
executive session to discuss possible/pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi also expressed his gratitude to several members of the
Independence Business Assn. and the Recreation Direction, Nita Brake for all
the hard work on this year’s Walk that was expanded to include the Courthouse
Square area. He stated that it was a good partnership with the Independence
Business Assn. and thanked all the businesses and sponsors who participated.
Mr. Groth advised that the City has received an encroachment permit from the
State and the City is receiving free fill dirt from Dudley Construction to
build up the site for the new entry sign on the new section of SR17. Mayor
Moriconi commented that the City hopes to complete the sign in 2011.
Executive Order No. 2010-EO-01 – Appointment to OKI Regional Board
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2010-EO-01 that would appoint
Chris Reinersman to represent the City on the OKI Board of Directors. Mr.
Reinersman was elected to Independence City Council in the November general
election and will take office January 1, 2011.
Executive Order No. 2010-EO-02 – Re-Appoint Dave Millward to Telecommunications
Board
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2010-EO-02 that would re-appoint
Dave Millward to the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky (TBNK) for a
two-year term beginning on January 1, 2011 and ending on December 31, 2012. He
stated this Board representation is established by the interlocal agreement
with TBNK and that Mr. Millward has done a great job for the City in this
position.
Executive Order No. 2010-EO-03 – NKAPC Representative Appointments
Mayor Moriconi presented Executive Order No. 2010-EO-03 that would appoint
himself as the primary representative for the City on the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Commission with Council Member Donna Yeager as the alternative
representative.
Executive Session
At 7:29 p.m. Council Member Little moved to go into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:08 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Behler. Motion carried with all ayes.
Mayor Moriconi announced that a result of the executive session was the
following two action items:
Resolution No. 2010-R-13 – Supporting Zoning Text Amendment Application
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2010-R-13 that would support a text amendment to
the official zoning ordinance adding “pawn shops” as a permitted use in the RC-
2 zone. Motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Behler to adopt Resolution No. 2010-R-13. Roll was called and answered with
four ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Cook. Motion carried 4-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Rescinding Ordinance 2010-O-08 which Established Rental
Dwelling Licenses – 1st Reading
Mr. Deters gave a first reading to a proposed ordinance that will rescind
Ordinance 2010-O-08 which established the rental dwelling licenses.
Mayor Moriconi announced that the next regular meeting of Council will be on
the second Monday of January (not the first Monday) on January 10, 2011. He
stated the City offices will be closed on January 3rd.
In closing, Mayor Moriconi thanked the outgoing members of Council (Behler and
Cook) for their service and welcomed the two newly elected members of Council
that will take office in January – Tom Brinker and Chris Reinersman. He stated
the City officials taking office beginning January 1 will be sworn in directly
after this meeting adjourns.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:12 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2011 Minutes
January 10, 2011
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 10, 2011
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
10, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Mayor Moriconi welcomed new Council Members Tom Brinker and Chris Reinersman.
He stated the City would make a couple of special presentations tonight.
Presentation to Senator Damon Thayer
Mayor Moriconi introduced Senator Damon Thayer and presented him a key to the
City to officially thank him for all the assistance with infrastructure
projects throughout the City. Mayor Moriconi stated that for the last several
years Senator Thayer has successfully supported the City’s efforts to get
traffic signals installed at the intersection of new SR17 and McCullum Road as
well as funding for the construction of new SR17.
Senator Thayer stated that he was honored to be recognized in this manner and
has not been bestowed in this way by other cities that he represents. He stated
he appreciates the support of the citizens in the community.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the City will be requesting another traffic
signal at the intersection of Centennial and SR17 and would appreciate his
support again. Senator Thayer advised that the Transportation Department -
District 6 – would do a study to determine the need but assured Mayor Moriconi
that he would call the District and make sure they know that this traffic
signal is a priority of his and his constituents.
Again, Mayor Moriconi thanked Senator Thayer and presented him with a key to
the City.
Proclamation Presented to Whitney Kahrs
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation to Whitney Kahrs, a student at Simon
Kenton High School, for her act of heroism on October 21, 2010 when confronted
with a life and death situation, she selflessly came to the aid of her friend
who was attacked by dogs. Ms. Kahrs quick reactions and instant decision to get
her friend to the hospital as soon as possible saved her friend’s life. Ms.
Kahrs thanked Mayor Moriconi and advised that her friend is doing well and even
returned to her volleyball team.
Approval of the December 6, 2010 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, December 6, 2010. Council Member Little so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. There being no amendments noted, roll was
called and answered with three ayes and three abstentions cast by Council
Members Brinker, Franzen and Reinersman. Motion carried.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-01 – Changing Speed Limit on Centennial Blvd., Declaration
Drive & Delaware Crossing – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-
01 that would change the speed limit from 20 mph to 30 mph on the following
streets: 1) Centennial Boulevard as it extends between Old KY17 and the new
relocated KY17; 2) Declaration Drive, and 3) Delaware Crossing. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2011-O-01.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-01, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-02 – Amend Current Building Fee Schedule to Include a Fee
for HVAC Inspections – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-
02 that would repeal Ordinance No. 2007-O-21, which regulates the schedule of
building and zoning permit fees, and adopt a new schedule of permit fees that
will include permit fees for HVAC inspections. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No.
2011-O-02.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-02. A brief discussion ensued regarding
the effective date of the new fee schedule. Council Member Franzen stated that
the ordinance said the effective date would be January 1st and asked if the
fees would be retroactive. Mr. Deters advised that the fees would take effect
upon passage of this ordinance and publication. There being no further
questions, roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-03 – Amend Current Sidewalk Maintenance – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-
03, an ordinance that will amend Chapter 95 of the code of ordinances by adding
a new section delegating responsibility for sidewalks to the property owners.
Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2011-O-03 a second reading.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-03, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Council Member Franzen asked how this would affect
utility easements and Mr. Groth advised the easements would be the
responsibility of SD1 or the Water District. There being no further discussion,
roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council
Member Bushong. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-04 – Rescinding Ordinance 2010-O-08 which Established
Rental Dwelling Licenses – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-
04 that would rescind Ordinance 2010-O-08 which established the rental dwelling
licenses. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2011-O-04.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-04. A brief discussion ensued. Council
Member Yeager asked if there was any chance to make some revisions to the
original ordinance and resubmit for adoption at a later date. Council Member
Franzen also expressed concern that this would not be dropped altogether, just
revised. Mayor Moriconi and Mr. Deters responded that they would look to make
revisions to the nuisance ordinance to address the excessive calls for service
to some of the multi-family developments. There being no further discussion,
roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2011-R-01 – Authorizing the Application to the Department of
Local Government for Assistance under the Land & Water Conservation Fund for a
Proposed Recreation Project
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2011-R-01 that would
authorize the application of a grant with the Land and Water Conservation Fund
for a proposed recreational project in Memorial Park. Mr. Groth advised that
the City applied for this grant last year but was not awarded the grant. He
stated the grant would fund fifty-percent of the estimated project cost of
$102,000 and is for terracing the hillside between the Amphitheater and the
Senior Center building to make it more handicap accessible and better utilized.
He stated he would like to resubmit the application again this year. He stated
the application deadline is March 31st. Council Member Reinersman commented
that it is his understanding that the City’s fifty-percent contribution would
be in-kind services. Mayor Moriconi advised that Public Works employees would
contribute labor as much as possible. There being no further discussion, Mr.
Deters read Resolution No. 2011-R-01.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2011-R-01, seconded by
Council Member Little. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0. Council Member Bushong asked if this project would include the
construction of the basketball courts. Mr. Groth replied no.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2008-O-11 Relating to the time of
Annual Payments of the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt Reduction Assessment – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2008-O-11 relating to the time of annual payments of the
Fowler Creek Sewer debt reduction assessment. He commented that staff has
recommended that this assessment be put back on the annual property tax
billing. He stated that this is just a first reading and no decision is
expected tonight.
Council Member Yeager stated she respects KLC legal counsel J.D. Chaney, but
disagrees with his opinion of this. She stated she feels it is not legal to add
this assessment to the tax bills and would like the City to obtain an opinion
from the State Attorney General before deciding on this issue. Council Member
Franzen agreed that the City should seek an opinion before the second reading
of the ordinance. She also expressed concern that the 2010 and 2011 fiscal
years would actually be billed in the beginning and end of 2011 which could
cause confusion to those paying the assessment. Mayor Moriconi advised that a
separate billing of the assessment has associated mailing costs and has caused
a decrease in the collection rate. He stated the full amount of the annual debt
service payment is being collected but the additional amount that is building
up the reserve balance is not increasing at a rate that will allow the City to
pay the full debt retirement earlier than expected. Council Member Little asked
what recourse or action is available to the City in collecting the delinquent
assessments. Mr. Deters stated that is a gray area now. Mr. Deters advised that
it would take several months or longer to obtain an opinion from the Attorney
General. Council Member Reinersman commented that he has heard complaints that
the separate bill cannot be included in a mortgage escrow account and now the
resident gets one big bill.
Mayor Moriconi advised that he would go ahead with a first reading of the
ordinance and further questions and concerns could be addressed prior to a
second reading. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced that the Kenton County Library has a program called
Homebound Delivery Services which provide library materials and services to
eligible residents of Kenton County who are unable to visit the library. This
program is a free service to eligible residents.
Mr. Groth stated that the weather prediction for tonight and tomorrow is 3-
5 inches of snow. He urged all residents to remove their cars from city streets
so that the snow plows can clear the streets of ice and snow.
Mayor Moriconi advised it is only January and the City budget for snow removal
services is nearly depleted for the year. He stated that it may be necessary to
pull from the reserves if this inclement weather continues the rest of the
winter season.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report but requested and
executive session to discuss possible/pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi presented the annual audit for the year ending June 30, 2010. He
advised Council to review the document and direct any questions to the City
Administrator or City Clerk. He also advised that the auditor would attend a
Council meeting to make a formal presentation if the Members so desire.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Franzen thanked the Police Department for collection of food
donations during the holidays. She stated she appreciated that they donated
their surplus to the Independence Christian Church food pantry.
Captain Lucas of the Police Department announced that the Citizens Police
Academy Alumni Association will hold their annual Valentine’s Dance fundraiser
on February 5th at the St. Cecilia Undercroft. He stated the funds they raise
help purchase equipment for the Department.
Executive Session
At 7:40 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to go into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:09 p.m. Council Member Little moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:10 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 28, 2011
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 28, 2011
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky held a Special Meeting
on Monday, February 28, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol
Franzen, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Council Member Mike Little was
absent. Also present was City Attorney, Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this special meeting of Council
was being held to discuss and take action on the following business item:
·   Road Improvement Projects – Discussion and possible Action
Road Improvement Projects
Mayor Moriconi stated that this meeting has been called to discuss the
possibility of borrowing funds for street projects. He introduced Todd Cooney
and Chris Bell of Fifth Third Bank. Mayor Moriconi advised that with interest
rates being at historical lows they began contacting various banks to seek rate
information and found some very competitive rates with Fifth Third Bank
presenting the lowest rate. He stated he is proposing borrowing funds to begin
making repairs and reconstruction of the most deteriorated streets in the City.
He stated that Fifth Third Bank has proposed a 10-year loan for 1,500,000 at a
fixed rate of 3.46%. He stated the point of this meeting is to lock in this
rate as the rates are fluctuating daily and the bank has advised they would
hold this rate until our March 7th meeting when a final vote would be taken on
issue.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the City currently receives an annual
average of $303,000 in Municipal Road Aid (MRA) funds from the state. The MRA
amount fluctuates from year to year so this average was arrived from the last
five years receivables. He stated that the projected annual payment on the loan
would be approximately $180,000 which would leave an adequate amount for other
road projects. He stated it would be important to continue to allocate
additional funds to the road repair budget each year as well. Mayor Moriconi
advised that a scoring system is used for the streets and the $1,500,000 will
put a dent in the list of the lowest scoring streets. He stated that the road
repairs would also be coordinated with any work/repairs to be done by the
Sanitation District and/or Water District.
City Attorney, Jed Deters asked if the City would earn interest on the unused
funds as repairs are made to the streets. Mayor Moriconi advised the interest
would accrue on the remaining loan balance as each phase of the street project
was completed. He said it could take 2-3 years to complete the repairs and
exhaust the borrowed funds.
Mr. Groth reported that 150 streets were graded in the street inspection
summary report of 2009. He stated the City would coordinate repairs of 8
streets; four with the Sanitation District and four with the Water District.
Mr. Groth advised that coordinating with other agencies for repairs to
infrastructure is becoming commonplace through the Envista program. He stated
that all eight streets scored 75 or below. He stated that he feels the City
could receive good competitive bids for these street projects as the
contractors are eager to schedule work for their crews.
Council Member Reinersman commented that he is not totally opposed to this
proposal, as he knows there is a lot of merit to this street project. He stated
he is concerned that using a large portion of the MRA funds received from the
State for a ten-year debt service would not leave adequate funds to keep up
with maintenance and repairs of other City streets. He commented that he knows
it is hard to pass up this low interest rate, but he fears the City will not
get far enough ahead of the curve and then find in a few years we are unable to
maintain this aggressive program.
Mr. Deters asked if there was any risk of losing the State MRA funds. Mayor
Moriconi responded that the annual funds from the State are known to fluctuate,
but he does not foresee that they would eliminate this funding to the cities.
Mayor Moriconi went on to advise Council that this aggressive street program
will only work if we continue to apportion some of the general funds into the
street repair budget line along with the MRA funds from the State.
Mayor Moriconi stated that it his job to present ideas to Council for
consideration. He stated he feels this is a win-win situation and an
opportunity to obtain low interest rates on a loan, get good bids for the
construction projects and take care of some of the most deteriorated streets in
the City. He stated the other option is to do nothing. Mr. Deters commented
that in the long run, delaying road repairs will cost more in the long run.
Public Works Director commented that the annual budget for street repairs
should be around $500,000 and that in past years this has been underfunded. He
said it would be beneficial to fund this more each year to catch up on the road
repairs. He stated it would allow them to provide more maintenance to the
highest scoring streets which would add to the life of the street.
Mayor Moriconi stated that some cities have placed a road tax on the ballot
only to have it fail in the general elections. He stated the option he is
presenting will allow the City to take advantage of historical low interest
rates to get the project done without raising taxes. Mr. Groth commented that
the City of Cold Spring recently borrowed money to do a similar street
reconstruction/repair program for several of their streets and they report they
have been happy with the result.
Council Member Bushong asked how the City would be able to get the annual
street repair budget line item up to $500,000 if only receiving $300,000 from
the State. Mayor Moriconi replied that it would be taken from the reserve
account or by adopting the compensating property tax rate.
Council Member Franzen commented that the City’s job is to maintain services to
the community and that tax dollars should be spent in providing those services
and citizens are more uncomplaining of paying their taxes if they can see
something happening, such as their streets being repaired and maintained. Mayor
Moriconi commented that the City could remain taking a slower approach to the
needed repairs, but would rather not be short-sighted in this area.
In turning the conversation to the loan terms and process, Mayor Moriconi
advised that he did not recommend going with a seven year term as the annual
payment would increase about $60,000/year. He stated he would be more
comfortable keeping the annual payment well below the allocation of MRA funds
received each year. Council Member Franzen asked about paying off the loan
earlier than the ten years. Fifth Third Bank representative Chris Bell advised
that the loan agreement has a 2% penalty for an early pay off.
Council Member Brinker brought up the issue of Cody Road, which has been
slipping and in general disrepair for many years. Mr. Groth advised that Cody
Road and Marshall Road are separate issues for which he would consider apply
for emergency funds from the State Transportation Cabinet. He said these two
roads need to be approached separately. Mayor Moriconi commented that the City
could opt to borrow $2,000,000 and put $500,000 into the reconstruction of Cody
road, but he too feels that this road could qualify for emergency funds from
the State. He stated he is not really comfortable borrowing more than the
$1,500,000 for now. Mr. Cooper advised that the City was able to stabilize Cody
Road a few years ago and it has held up. He stated that the flooding in the
Cody Road creek is also another problem. Mayor Moriconi reminded everyone there
has been a lot of talk over the last several years about Cody Road situation
and that at one time a developer was going to make the necessary reconstruction
of the road as part of a residential development in the area, but the
development fell through. Mr. Groth stated he feels that State and/or federal
funds should become available within the next two-three years.
Mayor Moriconi stated that if Council was not supportive of this proposal he
would not move forward. He stated he feels this loan proposal is a good
opportunity to take advantage of low interest rates and is better than
proposing a road tax. He stated the City could take care of the most
deteriorated streets now and then get on a better maintenance schedule in a few
years.
Council Member Franzen stated she would like to see a seven and ten year loan
proposal before taking a vote on this at next week’s meeting. She stated she
believes it is trending down and would like to consider a seven year loan. Mr.
Bell from Fifth Third Bank commented that the bank is at risk as well. He
stated that time is of the essence in getting the low interest rate locked in.
He stated the rate has the potential to go up or down, but will now be a huge
swing either way. Mr. Deters advised the term of the loan would not make a
difference in the first reading of the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Yeager commented that she thinks this will be a good project for
the City.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Lease with Fifth Third Bank to Finance
$1,500,000 for the Construction of Streets and Other Infrastructure
Improvements – 1st Reading
Before having a first reading of the ordinance that would approve a lease with
the bank to finance the construction of streets for a principal amount not to
exceed $1,500,000, Mayor Moriconi asked for a show of hands by those Council
Members that favor moving forward. For the record, Council Members Brinker,
Franzen and Yeager raised their hands in approval to move forward.
Mr. Deters gave the first reading of the ordinance approving a lease to finance
$1,500,000 for road improvements.
Adjournment
There being no further business before the Council, Council Member Franzen
moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion
carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 6:42 p.m.
                     ___________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
Attest:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 7, 2011
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 7, 2011
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 7,
2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters. Mayor Moriconi advised
Council they have before them an updated Agenda as two items of discussion have
been added.
Approval of the January 10, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, January 10, 2011. Council Member Reinersman so moved,
with second by Council Member Franzen. Amendments were presented without
objection, roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried.
Approval of the February 28, 2011 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on Monday, February 28, 2011. Council Member Bushong so moved,
with second by Council Member Yeager. Amendments were presented without
objection; roll was called and answered with five ayes and one abstention
voiced by Council Member Little. Motion carried
Privileges of the Floor
Mayor Moriconi called upon Mark Sennet of Beckmark, Inc. who did not answer.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that Mr. Sennet wanted to request that the City
sponsor a zoning text amendment that would allow an auto parts type of business
in the PUD development off of Centennial Blvd. He stated that current zoning
regulations do not allow this type of business in a PUD zone. Council Member
Bushong suggested that since Mr. Sennet failed to appear at this meeting that
this should be tabled until the April meeting or later on in this meeting if
Mr. Sennet arrives later.
Rokvic Family – Request for a Zoning Text Amendment – Mayor Moriconi asked
Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld to provide information for this request
from the Rokvic Family. Mrs. Wuestefeld stated the Rokvic’s came to her
requesting a permit to install a fence in the front yard of their property at
4224 Richardson Road. She stated she feels some special circumstances exist
that may give merit to applying for a text amendment to allow fences in the
front yard. Council Member Little asked which zone this property is located in
and if this type of request could be considered a variance that the Board of
Adjustment could decide. She stated she thinks it is an R-1C, but that fences
are not actually regulated by zone. She stated that the Board of Adjustment can
provide a variance for the height of a fence, but the Board cannot contradict
an ordinance regulation that currently prohibits fences in the front yard. Mrs.
Wuestefeld suggested allowing fences in the front yard when the property fronts
an arterial street and has four or more acres. Council Member Franzen suggested
adding a set-back requirement. Mrs. Wuestefeld stated a sixty-foot set-back and
limit the fence height to four feet in the front yard. She stated the type of
fence should also be specified.
Resolution No. 2011-R-03 – Supporting the Application of a Zoning Text
Amendment Relating to Fences in Front Yard Areas of Single Family Residential
Zone
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager
and seconded by Council Member Brinker to adopt a Resolution supporting the
application of a zoning text amendment that would allow fences in the front
yard area of single family residential properties if certain criteria are met.
Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one abstention cast by Council
Member Jim Bushong.
Proposed Ordinance – Authorizing the Financing of Road Improvement Project
Mr. Groth re-introduced the discussion from the special meeting held on
February 28, 2011 about the possibility of borrowing $1,500,000 for street
improvement projects. He advised Council that Fifth Third Bank has locked in at
today’s rates of 2.93% fixed for a 7-year and 3.48% fixed for a 10-year loan.
He stated the annual loan payments would be $233,289 and $174,121 respectively.
Mr. Groth advised that the average Municipal Road Aid (MRA) received from the
State is around $300,000 each year which would more than cover the annual loan
payment and leave extra funds for other street repairs and maintenance. Mayor
Moriconi commented that the rates have not changed much since the meeting last
week. He stated the funds would be expended over a 2-3 year period as the road
projects would be accomplished over that time period. Council Member Reinersman
expressed concern that the City would have to cut back or raise taxes to meet
this payment. He stated he would be more comfortable if it were only $500,000
this year. Council Member Franzen wondered how the City would meet the annual
loan payment if the State discontinued the distribution of MRA funds. Mr. Groth
explained that seems unlikely considering that the MRA allocation is based on
population and is derived from gas taxes collected by the State.
Council Member Reinersman expressed some concern that with recent skyrocketing
gas prices that this will affect the gas tax revenue collected by the State.
Council Member Franzen suggested putting a limit on the amount spent each year
from the $1,500,000 loan, such as $500,000 per year. Council Member Little
expressed concern that the State MRA funds would be committed to a debt payment
in final years of a 7-10 loan term that would leave a hole in the City’s road
repair fund. Mayor Moriconi countered that only half of the annual State MRA
funds would be allocated to the debt service of this loan leaving the other
half for continued road maintenance and repairs. Mayor Moriconi stated with the
historic low interest rates he felt this proposed loan was worth consideration.
Council Member Bushong commented this may not be the right time to borrow
money. He suggested supplementing the MRA funds with the City’s reserve account
until things turn around and perhaps look at taking out a loan at a later date.
Council Member Franzen commented that when the economy gets better the interest
rates will increase.
At this point in the discussion Mayor Moriconi advised the Council Members that
he would not break a tie vote on this issue. He stated he feels the majority of
the Members need to be in favor of this loan to move forward.
Council continued the discussion with focus being on the loan term – seven
versus ten years. While some Council Members voiced a preference for a seven
year loan, Mayor Moriconi stated the annual payment for a seven year loan would
consume most of the MRA funds and not leave enough funds to do other in-house
projects, such as sidewalks, etc.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to citizens who signed in to speak on this
issue.
Frank Halpin, 10326 Limerick Circle, Independence – voiced his objection to
taking out a loan for street repairs. He stated the City should not depend on
State MRA funds to make a loan payment and that if the City cannot repay the
loan from the general fund then the City shouldn’t be borrowing money. Mr.
Halpin described MRA funds as a gift from the State. Mayor Moriconi explained
that the MRA funds is not a ‘gift’ but is a portion of the gas tax revenue
collected by the State which is apportioned throughout the State for local
street repairs and maintenance. He commented that he feels taking out a loan is
a better option than putting a road tax on the general election ballot.
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, Independence – stated he is in favor of fixing
the roads, but against borrowing money to do it. He stated he does not think it
makes sense to borrow money when the City has a reserve fund.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence – also objected to borrowing money for
road repairs and paying loan interest each year. She also stated that she felt
the money should come from the City’s reserve account.
At this time the City Clerk explained the purpose of a reserve account and that
in keeping with government accounting standards a City the size of Independence
should maintain a four to six month reserve account to be used in the event of
a natural disaster or time of dire emergency. She stated the reserve account
should not be used for annual operational expenses. Mayor Moriconi asked what
was the current balance of the reserve fund. The City Clerk advised that the
balance is approximately $1,800,000 which is about a four month reserve.
Mayor Moriconi stated that taking out a $1,500,000 loan would allow the City to
repair five streets a year instead of two which could bring lower bid prices as
well. Mrs. Cook commented that the City has already saved money by doing some
of the road projects with in-house public works staff. Mayor Moriconi stated
that the City does most of the concrete replacement with the public works staff
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Lease with Fifth Third Bank to Finance
$1,500,000 for the Construction of Streets and Other Infrastructure
Improvements – 2nd Reading
At this time, Mayor Moriconi directed the City Attorney to give a second
reading to the proposed ordinance that would approve a lease with Fifth Third
Bank to finance the road project for a maximum principal amount of $1,500,000.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Further discussion ensued about possibly borrowing a lesser amount or
allocating more to the road repairs account from the general fund.
Council Member Yeager moved to have a second reading of the ordinance to
approve the borrowing of $1,500,000. Council Member Reinersman suggested that
if the City does borrow this money, that it would require additional action by
the Council to be expended and not a part of the annual budget. Mayor Moriconi
stated that the money could be kept in the reserve account and then amounts
transferred into the general account as repairs are done. Discussion ended; no
one was forthcoming with a second to Council Member Yeager’s motion, therefore,
the motion on the floor died for lack of a second.
Mayor Moriconi thanked the Fifth Third Bank representatives for the time and
effort they put into this proposal, but that the Council does not feel
comfortable at this time to borrow funds to do the street repair project. He
suggested that maybe this issue could be re-visited in coming months and
hopefully the interest rates will still be low.
Proclamation – Brain Injury Awareness Month
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation declaring March as National Brain
Injury Awareness Month. He stated this proclamation was presented at the last
Mayor’s Group meeting with the request that each city adopt it.
Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Text Amendment Amending Regulations for Temporary
and Detached Signs – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
override the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission (Number
2027R) and thereby approve a text amendment that would amend the regulations
for non-residential temporary and detached signs. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance
a first reading. Council Member Reinersman questioned some language that seemed
unclear on page two, section 1A. Mrs. Wuestefeld explained that the intent is
for “each” individual sign. The text will be revised for the second reading of
the ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Text Amendment Adding “Pawn Shops” to List of
Permitted Uses in the RC-2 Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning Commission (Number
2027R) to approve a zoning text amendment adding “pawn shops” to the list of
permitted uses within the RC-2 zone. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first
reading. Council Member Bushong asked if, by providing a zone for this type of
business, would this action take care of any pending litigation against the
City. Mr. Deters stated that it may.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending 2010/2011 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend the 2010-2011 budget. He pointed out one line in particular that needed
amendment was for snow removal which was currently $40,000 over the original
budget of $75,000. There being no questions by Council, Mr. Deters gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Police Impoundment of Vehicles – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
allow for the collection of a $75.00 handling fee for vehicles impounded by the
Police Department. Council Member Bushong asked if a fee had been charged in
the past. Police Chief Shawn Butler replied they have not charged fees and this
new fee will only be charged in criminal related offenses and not for auto
accidents, etc. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Award Bid – Street Repairs Project for Catalpa and Chestnut
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a report and recommendation from the City
Engineer regarding the bids received for the Catalpa and Chestnut Street
improvements. He reported that the City received eight bids for this project
and that the recommendation is to award the bid to TMS Construction who
submitted the lowest bid at $219,247.00. Mr. Groth advised that this will be a
joint project with the Northern Kentucky Water District as they will be
replacing a water main and then the City will make the road improvements after
they complete their work which will be sometime after July 1.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to award the bid to TMS Construction in the amount of $219,247.00.
Council Member Bushong asked if the City Engineer checks the company’s
references or just recommend the lower bidder. Mr. Groth assured Council that
the engineer always check the references of the company’s bid before making a
recommendation to the City. He stated that the low bidder in this case is the
best bid as well. There being no further discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried.
Resolution No. 2011-R-02 – Authorizing a Lease Purchase Agreement with Fifth
Third Bank for the Purchase of Police Cruisers
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2011-R-02 that would approve
a lease-purchase agreement with Fifth Third Bank for the financing of the
acquisition of four new police vehicles. A brief discussion ensued. Police
Chief Butler advised they would purchase four Dodge vehicles at State bid
pricing and they would request that three or four of the older fleet vehicles
be declared as surplus property to be auctioned off. Mr. Deters read Resolution
No. 2011-R-02.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Resolution No. 2011-R-02, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced that bids were received for installing an irrigation system
to two areas of Memorial Park. The two areas are the football/soccer field and
the playground. He said that last year’s draught has caused the areas to become
rutted which make the ground unsafe. He advised that several people came
together to discuss a solution and it was decided that topsoil, re-seeding and
an irrigation system would be a long-term solution. He stated that two bids
were received with the low bid from Malco Services at a total cost of
$26,198.66.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that this project would be taken out of the
amended budget and it would not be necessary to go into the reserve account. He
said it will be necessary to close the fields for a time to allow the new seed
to grow and the lawn area to get well established. He stated that he has
received calls from people that feel the City is kicking the teams off the ball
field, but the City is making improvements to the field for the safety of the
team players. He stated that the City is giving six months notice to the teams.
Dave Nolan, 1070 Oakgrove Ct. – stated he is a member of the South Kenton
Football. He stated the football league offered to do the repairs to the field
at no cost to the city. He stated that they met with the City in 2008 and
wanted a 5 year exclusive use commitment and in exchange they would haul in
topsoil and re-seed the field. Mayor Moriconi replied that he doesn’t remember
them offering the City money to make repairs to the field, but the City does
not want to restrict the use of the field to any one sport. Mr. Nolan stated
they offered to do the work not make a monetary donation to the City. Council
Member Franzen stated she didn’t want to see a clash with the Independence
Soccer league for use of the field. A lengthy discussion ensued. Mr. Nolan
expressed two additional concerns, the first being that he feels the football
league contributes to the success of the local restaurants during their season
and they will loose their business for four months if they need to practice
elsewhere. His other concern is about the $10/child fee the City will be
charging next year. He wanted to know why this fee will be charged. Mayor
Moriconi advised that the fee will help offset the cost of water to run the
sprinkler system. Mayor Moriconi stated the field will be closed this spring
and he discussed in detail the work that would be done to the two areas in the
park. He stated that after the work is complete that the areas would be
cordoned off until the lawn is well established. Council Member Yeager agreed
that she did not feel the City should provide exclusive use of the field to one
sport.
Further discussion centered on the $10/child fee to play on the field that
would take effect next year. Some residents expressed concern that this would
be burdensome to some families that have 2- children playing football.
Recreation Director Nita Brake commented that Independence Soccer leases a
county owned field in Mills Road Park on the condition they pay for all
maintenance including the monthly water bill which runs about $1,000 per month
during the summer and early fall months. Council Member Franzen commented that
Boone County charges $20/child and expressed some concern that $10/child per
season could be burdensome to families. Since football only has one season this
is not a problem, but soccer has two seasons. Council Member Little stated this
would involve some record keeping. Mayor Moriconi advised that this pay to play
fee was not a voting issue at this meeting and this could be re-visited at a
later date.
Award Bid for Memorial Park Irrigation System
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion on awarding the bid for the irrigation
system. Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Yeager.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried and the bid was
awarded to the low bidder, Malco Services.
City Administrator Report (continued) – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced that the Kenton County Spring Cleanup program is scheduled
for April 6, 7 and 8 from 8:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. Large items can be dropped
off at the Kenton County Public Works Dept on Independence Station Road.
Mr. Groth also announced that the Senior Center would be holding a fundraiser
at Skyline Chili on March 17th serving green spaghetti for St. Patrick’s Day.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report but requested an executive
session to discuss possible/pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi – no report.
Executive Session
At 8 51 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to go into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 9:05 p.m. Council Member Reinersman moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:05 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 4, 2011
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of April 4, 2011
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 4,
2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan
Groth and Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld.
Proclamation – Recognition of Military Careerist Rusty E. Mardis
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation to the family of military careerist
Rusty E. Mardis commending Captain Mardis for his long military career in the
United States Air Force. Captain Mardis began his military service in 1990 and
is currently deployed in Kabul, Afghanistan serving in the War in Iraq.
Approval of the March 7, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, March 7, 2011. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Little . No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried.
Privileges of the Floor
Mark Sennet of Beckmark, Inc – addressed Council with a request to support a
zoning text amendment to add “automotive parts and accessories” as a permitted
use in the PUD zone. He stated he would like it to possibly include a fast food
restaurant with a drive up window. He said it would actually be two free
standing buildings, but this is a preliminary concept. Mr. Sennet advised
Council that he wants to commit to purchase the property in the PUD zone but
that AutoZone has to approve the site first. Council Member Bushong asked if he
would be the owner of the AutoZone. Mr. Sennet advised that he generally puts
the deals together, but he may retain ownership of the building and lease the
space. Council Member Franzen commented that the City is looking to add more
sit-down restaurants such as Applebee’s; not more fast food. Mr. Sennet advised
that not all restaurants are currently expanding. He stated he would like to
work with the City on other sites in the City. He stated he has done several
developments in the tri-state area. Council Member Bushong asked if he was
concerned that a new Advanced Auto was located in the same area that he is
proposing an AutoZone. Mr. Sennet did not seem concerned and responded that
competition keeps prices in check when there is a shared marketplace. Mayor
Moriconi asked the City’s Zoning Administrator for her thoughts on this
proposal. Mrs. Wuestefeld reported that the City’s current zoning excludes auto
service businesses in the PUD zone. She advised that if the zoning text is
changed to add this type of business as a permitted use in the PUD zone, this
change will still be required to submit a Stage II development plan to the
Planning Commission for approval. Council Member Little asked if this text
amendment would apply to all PUD zones. Mrs. Wuestefeld advised that it would
apply to all PUD zones and would still be required to go through a Stage I or
Stage II development plan review by the Planning Commission who would then make
a recommendation back to the City to approve or disapprove.
Resolution No. 2011-R-04 – Supporting a Text Amendment to Add “Automotive Parts
and Accessories” as a Permitted Use in the PUD Zones
There being no further discussion on Mr. Sennet’s request, Council Member
Reinersman made a motion to support a zoning text amendment to add “automotive
parts and accessories” as a permitted use in the PUD zone, seconded by Council
Member Bushong. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Council Member Reinersman stated he is familiar with Mr. Sennet’s work and he
has accomplished some impressive projects and has a good track record.
Proclamation – Child Abuse Prevention Month
Mayor Moriconi presented a proclamation declaring April 2011 as Child Abuse
Prevention Month in Independence.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-05 – Zoning Text Amendment Amending Regulations for
Temporary and Detached Signs – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-05, an
ordinance that would override the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning
Commission (Number 2027R) and thereby approve a text amendment that would amend
the regulations for non-residential temporary and detached signs. Mayor
Moriconi opened the floor for comments about this ordinance.
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, Independence – stated he disagrees with this
proposed ordinance. He stated that the Planning Commission (NKAPC) has
recommended disapproval and that the City should have made all changes before
adopting the original model sign regulations last year.
JoAnne Cobble, Madison Pike, Independence – stated she opposed this proposed
ordinance. She questioned why this was being proposed. Council Member Franzen
explained the first draft limited the number of signs per yard and during
election season there should not be a limit on the number. Mayor Moriconi
stated the main reason was to permit temporary signs on commercial property.
Mrs. Cobble stated that the zoning text already permits temporary signs on
commercial properties, and she went on to dispute the need to amend this text.
She stated that she felt the amendment would give the commercial properties
more political message signs than residential lots. Council Member Brinker
countered that business owners do not vote in the general elections, unless
they are residents of the City. Mrs. Cobble argued that the Supreme Court has
ruled that preference cannot be given to commercial over non-commercial with
regard to messages that are not content neutral. In closing, she asked what the
definition was of an occupied lot and if signs would be allowed on vacant lots.
Mr. Groth responded that signs could not be placed on vacant lots.
There being no further discussion, Mayor Moriconi closed the floor for
comments. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2011-O-05 a second reading. Council
Member Franzen moved to adopt the ordinance, seconded by Council Member
Reinersman. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by
Council Member Little. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-06 – Zoning Text Amendment Adding “Pawn Shops” to List of
Permitted Uses in the RC-2 Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-06, an
ordinance that would accept the recommendation of the Kenton County Planning
Commission (Number 2027R) to approve a zoning text amendment adding “pawn
shops” to the list of permitted uses within the RC-2 zone. Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a second reading.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-06. Roll was
called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member
Yeager. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-07 – Amending 2010/2011 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-07, an
ordinance that would amend the 2010-2011 budget. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No.
2011-O-07.
Council Member Reinersman made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-07,
seconded by Council Member Little. There being no discussion, roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-08 – Relating to Police Impoundment of Vehicles – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented Ordinance No. 2011-O-08 for a second reading; an
ordinance that would allow for the collection of a $75.00 handling fee for
vehicles impounded by the Police Department. Mr. Deters read the ordinance.
Council Member Yeager moved to Adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-08, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Discussion Relating to Possible Fireworks Legislation
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that he has provided them a copy of the revised
legislation that has been adopted by the State that allows for the legal sale
and purchase of fireworks with certain restrictions in the state of Kentucky.
Mr. Deters stated that this change was made to State law to generate new
revenue. A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Moriconi advised that Council may
want to adopt some City regulations to avoid temporary tents popping up all
over the City. He added that he just wanted to make Council aware of the
changes in State law.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth introduced Alden Downing a student from NKU who is attending this
meeting and will be shadowing him for a day to observe the functions of City
government.
Mr. Groth announced that the Farmers Market would begin its season on Saturday,
April 30th and run until October 30th. He stated the market would run each
Saturday from 8:30 until 2:00 p.m. at the Courthouse Square. He thanked the
Kenton County Fiscal Court for their collaboration in providing the grounds and
needed electricity. He also advised that the City would be taking a more active
role in sponsoring this event.
Mr. Groth announced the City’s annual Easter Egg Hunt would be held on
Saturday, April 16, 2011. He stated that Walgreen’s would sponsor the photos
with the Easter Bunny and provide each child with a photo.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Municipal Order No. 2011-MO-01 Appointment of Mary Pat Behler to the Board of
Adjustments
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for approval a municipal order appointing
Mary Pat Behler to the Board of Adjustment. He thanked Eric Dupps who has
submitted his resignation which has left a vacancy on the Board.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2011-MO-01, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Mayor Moriconi also thanked the volunteers from Moon Brothers Post 275 of the
American Legion for cleaning a two mile stretch of highway along SR17 as a part
of the Adopt a Highway Program.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:46 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
 
May 2, 2011
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 2,
2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan
Groth and Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld.
Approval of the April 4, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, April 4, 2011. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2011/2012 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt a budget for the 2011/2012 fiscal year. He gave the ordinance
a first reading and commented that over $500,000 would be allocated to street
repairs and that later he would be seeking emergency road aid for repairs/major
improvements to some roads.
Cody Road – CDS Engineers to Present Repair/Rehab Options
Mayor Moriconi introduced Martin Hellmann with the City Engineer’s office who
presented to Council three options to permanently address the slide issue on
Cody Road. The options presented are as follows:
Option 1 – Roadway Relocation: Relocate the roadway to the south, parallel to
and just uphill from the existing road, between Upton and the railroad
underpass (approximately 1125 ft.). This will allow us to move the roadway out
of the slide area, and address sight distance and roadway width issues.
However, this option does not improve the flooding roadway or the geometry at
the railroad underpass. Additionally, this would require the City to purchase
additional right-of-way from the adjacent property owner. The cost to purchase
the necessary right-of-way is not included in the total project cost below.
Opinion of Probable Project Cost: $650,000.00
Option 2 – Drilled Shaft Wall: Construct approximately 550 ft. of drilled shaft
retaining wall along the north side of the existing roadway. The road would
remain on its current alignment at its current width. The wall could be
constructed within the existing right-of-way. This would address the landslide
problem, but would not address the flooding and sight distance concerns at the
railroad underpass, or the narrow roadway width and sight distance concerns
that currently exist along this section of Cody Road.
Opinion of Probable Project Cost: $480,000.00
Option 3 – Close Cody Road and Construct Cul-de-Sacs: Permanently close Cody
Road between Upton Drive and the Railroad underpass. A T-turnaround would be
constructed at the west end would be approximately 100 feet west of the
railroad underpass. A new section of driveway would be constructed to connect
the turnaround to the existing driveway at 5500 Cody Road. At the east end
Upton Drive would be used as a turnaround. The existing road would be
reconstructed and/or widened through the existing slide area up to Carole Anne,
where it would be maintained only as an access to Carole Anne. This section of
roadway would be shifted slightly to the south, but still within the right-of-
way, narrowed down to 16 feet wide and graded off to the north to provide a
more stable slope. With this option it will be crucial to provide adequate
signage to notify motorists of the roadway closure.
Opinion of Probable Project Cost: $125,000.00
After the options were explained by Mr. Hellmann, the floor was open for
discussion. Council Member Franzen asked if these repairs options would
guarantee no slides in the future. Mr. Hellmann responded that there would
always be that potential, but they would address the potential slide areas and
engineer it with an effort to avoid that potential. Mayor Moriconi commented he
will pursue emergency road aid for this project from the State, but it is
unknown how much the City could possibly obtain from that fund, if any. He
advised that FEMA funds don’t qualify for this but we will make a request on
the chance that it would. Council Member Reinersman asked if it was possible to
get emergency funds from the State again since we have been granted funds in
the past. Mr. Groth responded that we contribute to the fund each year which
would make us eligible so we will apply again. Council Member Brinker asked how
soon it would take to get a reply on the application for the emergency funds.
Mr. Groth stated it should be fairly quick.
Mayor Moriconi suggested installing a steel bridge under the railroad trestle
as part of this repair to Cody Road. He said it would be an additional cost of
approximately $86,000 and would be similar to the metal grate bridge recently
installed on Crowe Road. He advised the bridge would not stop the flooding in
this area but rebuild that portion of roadway under the railroad trestle.
At this time, Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to anyone who wanted to address
the Council about the Cody Road project.
Brad Jones, 1244 Cynthiana Court, Independence – voiced his request to keep
Cody Road open and not permanently close the road.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence – stated she feels that the City should
keep the road open as this road is used by the school busses. She also wondered
if the railroad (CSX) would have some liability.
Mayor Moriconi commented that he will be talking with the Kenton County
officials to request some road assistance for this project. He also responded
to Ms. Cook’s concern about CSX railroad liability. He said it was a valid
question, but didn’t know if they would have any liability in assisting the
City with this project.
Pat Dressman, 10366 Corinth Ct., Independence – asked Council to keep this road
open. She stated it is used all the time and would hate to see the west side of
the city cut off. She stated this would alienate those business, etc. She
stated she thought installing a bridge under the trestle would be a good idea
as well.
Greg Rehkamp, 10415 Lynchburg Drive, Independence – stated he was in favor of
keeping the road open. He stated there is fifty-three acres for sale for future
development and closing the road would hamper effort to build and bring in
future property taxes.
Further discussion among the Council centered on applying for emergency funds
with the State and which option to pursue. Mr. Hellman advised that option 1 or
2 were good long-term solutions.
Council Member Franzen moved to proceed with Option 1 for an estimated project
cost of $650,000 and to make application for State emergency road funds,
seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Moriconi suggested pulling $86,000 from the reserve account to cover the
cost of the steel grate bridge under the railroad trestle.
He advised Council that a portion of Marshall Road that was fixed last year is
deteriorating again so that is an issue that will also need to be addressed.
Mr. Groth reported that he has met with Kenton County’s Emergency Management
Director and FEMA representatives. He stated they came out and inspected three
sections of Marshall Road and one section along Webster Road that need to be
fixed. FEMA program requires the City to make the repairs and then request
reimbursement. He stated that Mr. Cooper, Public Works Director, did a good job
compiling the information that FEMA needed to go ahead and get work done.
Council Member Bushong asked if the work could be done with in-house labor. Mr.
Groth stated that we could do concrete replacement but not blacktop; blacktop
work would have to be contracted out.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2011 Code of Ordinances Supplement – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the 2011-S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Business License Regulations to Exempt Vendors
Participating in the Farmers Market – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Chapter 110 regulating the licensing of businesses by exempting vendors
participating in the Farmers’ Market. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Fence Regulations – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance for a zoning
text amendment that would override the recommendation of the Kenton County
Planning Commission (Number 2032R) thereby approving an amendment of the
regulations for fences, subject to restrictions, within the front yard of
residential properties. A brief discussion ensued about the height of the
fences and class 3 fences was removed. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first
reading with the amendment made on the floor.
Proposed Ordinance – Fireworks Regulations – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would prohibit the storage for sale of any fireworks in any residential
zone within the City limits and prohibiting such sales from anything other than
a permanent structure. Mayor Moriconi commented that cities are now permitted
to place restrictions on the sale of fireworks and this ordinance will prohibit
tents from popping up around town. Council Member Little questioned whether a
trailer was considered a permanent structure. Mr. Deters responded that it
could be considered permanent if it was in a location for a long time. There
being no further discussion Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced a disposal program for waste tires would be held May 12-14
by Kenton County. For locations and further information contact the Kenton
County Solid Waste Coordinator. He also advised old paint could be disposed on
Saturday, June 4th from 9:00 a.m. until 1:00 p.m. at Toyota, off Mineola Pike
in Erlanger. He also announced a free forum looking at demographic and economic
trends in Northern Kentucky will be held at Thomas More College on Thursday,
May 12th from 5:30 -7:30 p.m.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Proclamation – Municipal Clerks Week
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation declaring May 1 – 7, 2011 as Municipal
Clerks Week.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:47 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 6, 2011
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 6,
2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan
Groth and Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-09 – Adopting 2011/2012 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt the budget for the 2011/2012 fiscal year. City Attorney, Mr.
Deters gave Ordinance No. 2011-O-09 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-09. There being no discussion roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Advance Auto Parts – Mike Nevil, General Manager
Mayor Moriconi introduced Mike Nevil, general manager of the new Advance Auto
Parts store on the new section of SR17. Mr. Nevil announced to Council the
store would open on Monday with a grand opening at 11:00 a.m. on Thursday, June
16th. He invited everyone to attend. Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Nevil and
stated the City was excited to have Advance Auto Parts in Independence. Mr.
Nevil stated the store would employee ten people at this location. Mr. Groth
advised the new traffic signal at the intersection of SR17 and Centennial Blvd.
should be fully functioning by the opening of this store.
Approval of the May 2, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, May 2, 2011. Council Member Reinersman so moved, with
second by Council Member Brinker. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky – Tim Broering, Executive
Director
Mayor Moriconi welcomed the Telecommunications Board’s Executive Director, Tim
Broering. He reminded Council that during the budget discussions the topic came
up regarding the fees paid to the Telecommunications Board and what services
they provide for those fees. Mayor Moriconi stated Mr. Broering would explain
the function, role and value they provide the City for the fees paid to the
Board.
Mr. Broering distributed a copy of the franchise agreement that the Board
negotiates and manages for the City. He advised that the Board was established
and an interlocal agreement was adopted in 1980 between several cities for the
purpose of negotiating and administering the cable service agreements. He
stated this regional approach provided a cost savings to the cities as the
special legal counsel fees alone, to negotiate the franchise agreements
generally run over $100,000. He stated that negotiations is a long involved
process, taking as long as 3+ years to complete and involves community needs
assessments, holding public hearings and testing signal areas.
Mr. Broering advised Council that facilitating the monthly City meetings is
just one of the advantages of being a member of this interlocal agreement. He
stated the camera equipment in this room is provided by the Board and the Board
staff assisted with the purchase and installation of the other video equipment
in this room. Mr. Broering also advised the Board televises the City’s July 4th
events each year, recently televised the Memorial Day Oaks Re-dedication
ceremony, has installed a live line at the Senior Center, the Independence
Cemetery history piece and other special events like Clean-up America and a
salute to the troops and also provides live election coverage.
A discussion ensued with a question and answer period between Mr. Broering and
the Council. Mr. Bushong asked what other cities were part of the interlocal
agreement. Mr. Broering responded that most local cities were part of the
agreement except Erlanger, Florence, Walton and Union. In response to Council
Member Little’s question about cable versus satellite, he advised that cable
has 60-80% of the market while general satellite has about 13-20% of the
market. Council Member Yeager commented that the election coverage was lacking
as she couldn’t find the station for election results for the City. Mr.
Broering advised the results are on channel 16 every year. Mayor Moriconi
commented that it takes a long time for them to obtain the election results and
he volunteered to get those results to him quicker. Mr. Broering agreed that in
the past it has taken a long time to get the results from the clerk and he is
hoping the new clerk will release those results to him earlier in future
elections.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that in order to pull out of the interlocal
agreement it requires providing one year notice to the other member cities of
the agreement, so that would need to be done by June 30, 2011 in order to be
effective July 1, 2012. Mr. Broering commented that the City would realize a
savings just in the legal fees that would be expended for the negotiation of a
franchise agreement. He said the average cost for franchise negioation and
administration is approximately $80,000 per year with some years being higher.
Council Member Reinersman stated that with Cincinnati Bell now holding a
franchise in Northern Kentucky, as well as Insight Communications, there is now
two franchise agreements to negotiate. He also commented that his wife works in
the customer service department for Insight and knows firsthand how seriously
they take the agreement and what a valuable service they provide to this area.
Mr. Groth advised Council that the City receives approximately $165,000 in
telecommunications tax revenue each year of which the City pays $54,000 to the
Telecommunications Board for services. Mr. Broering commented that they lobbied
to get that tax passed.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Broering for all the good information and advised
him that he would let him know of any action the City would or would not take
on the interlocal agreement.
Resolution No. 2011-R-05 – Authorizing Homeland Security Grant Application for
Law Enforcement Protection Program Funds
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2011-R-05 authorizing the
application for and, upon approval, to enter into an agreement with the
Kentucky Office of Homeland Security (KOHS) to execute any documents which are
deemed necessary to facilitate and administer the project. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2011-R-05.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Little to adopt Resolution No. 2011-R-05. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Pay Plan – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will
adopt an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2011/2012 fiscal year.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Cody Road – Discussion Relating to Options to Repair or Close the Road Due to
Slippage
Mayor Moriconi reported that he recently met with representatives of Kenton
County Fiscal Court to discuss the deteriorating condition of Cody Road and
request some assistance from the County in repairing this road in an effort to
keep it open to traffic. He stated that the County said they could not help
financially but would assist the city with in-kind services. He advised Council
that the City has been awarded $100,000 in emergency road aid from the State so
we will move forward with some action; repairs or closing the road. Council
Member Brinker stated he was hoping more from the State and that he feels the
only option at this time would be to temporarily close the road and plan future
repairs to re-open it. He asked if the County’s offer of in-kind services
applied to any of the options Council would choose. Mr. Groth replied that it
did. Council Member Franzen stated she was in favor of keeping the road open
and expressed concern that postponing the needed repairs would cost even more
in five years. Council Member Little suggested a more detailed breakdown of the
costs to grade and move a section of the road. Mr. Groth stated that the best
solution would be to move the road out of the slippage area. Mayor Moriconi
commented that the retaining wall slid down and is a safety issue. Council
Member Franzen stated that drivers are already using it as a cut-through, so it
should be permanently closed to prevent this until such time as it can be
repaired.
Council discussed acquiring land from a resident in the area that would be used
to move a section of the road. The land is currently for sale and keeping the
road open would make the land more marketable. Council Member Yeager questioned
whether the City could afford this project, even with receiving $100,000 in
emergency road aid. Mayor Moriconi stated that the bids could come in lower
than the City Engineer’s estimated cost. Council Member Bushong asked about
exercising eminent domain to take the land needed to move the road. Mr. Deters
provided the legal procedures the City would have to abide by in exercising the
eminent domain process. Mayor Moriconi advised the City would need 1000+ feet
(less than an acre) of land.
There was a brief discussion about taking out a loan to fix the road. Council
Member Little commented that he felt the first step was to talk to the property
owner about acquiring a portion of their land. Council Member Reinersman
suggested the owner may be willing to give the City an easement or donate the
land. Mayor Moriconi agreed that we should first approach the owner about the
land and also check into borrowing money for the road repair/improvement. He
cautioned against taking funds from the reserve account that would take the
balance to an impractical low.
In closing the discussion, Council directed the City Administrator to contact
the property owner about acquiring a portion of their land to move the road,
check into some funding sources, discuss repair options with the City Engineer
and then determine if it will be necessary to take out a loan. Mayor Moriconi
commented that the interest rates have gone down since the last loan proposal
submitted in February of this year.
Independence Point Subdivision – Discussion About Developer Maintenance
A group of residents from the Independence Point Subdivision addressed Council
about the on-going maintenance violation of four lots, specifically high weeds
and grass, at the entrance of the subdivision and owned by the developer, Finke
Homes (aka Burlington Estates & aka G&T Excavation). Residents expressed their
frustration with the City’s violation process. Council Member Brinker commented
that it was the intent of Finke Homes to develop those lots, but they have not
been developed. Mayor Moriconi thanked the residents for coming and shared his
concerns as well with developers building nice monument signs at the entrance
to the subdivisions and when the subdivision is built out and they leave town
then the problems with maintenance begin for the City.
Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld explained the City’s violation process
is on a complaint basis only and that the property owners are given five days
from the time they receive the violation notice to get their grass cut. After
that time period, if the owner has not cut the grass, then the City can have it
mowed and file a lien on the property. She stated that Finke Homes did cut the
grass, but they did not do a very good job. She re-inspected the property and
advised they needed to cut it again. She stated the City mowed the area several
times last year. Mayor Moriconi commented that the excessive rains this year
have hampered the mowing schedule, so it has been a challenge to keep up.
There was some discussion about the entrance sign being in disrepair. Mayor
Moriconi advised he would have the City’s Public Works department inspect the
sign for repairs needed.
Council had a brief discussion regarding these chronic zoning violations and
adopting stricter regulations for habitual offenders by amending the nuisance
ordinance. Mr. Deters advised would review State laws and get with Ms.
Wuestefeld to propose an amendment to Council.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-10 – Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Fences in Front
Yards – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-10, that
would approve a zoning text amendment and would override the recommendation of
the Kenton County Planning Commission (Number 2032R) for an amendment of the
regulations for fences, subject to restrictions, within the front yard of
residential properties.
Mayor Moriconi stated he received an email from another property owner on Cody
Road with a similar issue regarding the placement of a fence in the front yard.
Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld advised that the Cody Road property is
actually a separate issue because Cody Road is not an arterial road. She
advised that if a parcel has more than five acres and has a horticultural use
then it would be eligible for a PVA exemption from zoning regulations. A
property with 10 acres that has an agricultural use can also be exempt from
zoning.
Recess
At 8:30 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to take a five minute recess,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:42 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-10 – Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Fences in Front
Yards – 2nd Reading – (discussion continued)
Mayor Moriconi resumed the discussion regarding the second reading of Ordinance
No. 2011-O-10. Mr. Deters advised the proposed ordinance is to over-ride the
Kenton County Planning Commission’s recommendation which was to disapprove the
proposed text amendment.
A discussion ensued wherein Ms. Wuestefeld explained that the proposed text
amendment would allow a maximum height of six feet for class 2 and class 4
fences in the front yard, but only on arterial streets. She stated that hedges
are permitted in the front yards with a maximum height of thirty-six (36)
inches. Council Member Franzen suggested changing the maximum height to four
feet and wondered if that would require a new first reading of the ordinance.
Ms. Wuestefeld stated that if front yard fences were permitted then the Board
of Adjustment could allow a variance on a dimensional issue such as height of
the fence. She stated that the property owner on Richardson Road that is
requesting this text amendment has already been before the Board to obtain the
variance for the six foot fence on the rear and sides of his property, but it
was beyond the scope of the Board to allow a fence in the front yard.
Council Member Little advised the City has nine arterial State roads and that
approving this would not be for just one property but for all properties on
nine arterial roads in the City He stated he is not in favor of allowing fences
in the front yard. He stated he also feels restricting to acreage is unfair if
the parcel has adequate frontage. Council Member Reinersman commented that he
looked around the City and he feels this proposed text amendment could be
opening a door.
At this time, Council Member Franzen moved to have a second reading of
Ordinance No. 2011-O-10. The motion died for lack of a second. Council Members
suggested that the property owner requesting this text amendment consider
planting shrubs and tried to explain that it is difficult to pass legislation
as a solution for one situation.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-11 – Adopting 2011 Code of Ordinances Supplement – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-11 that
would adopt the 2011-S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2011-O-11.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-11, seconded by
Council Member Reinersman. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-12 –Amending Business License Regulations to Exempt
Vendors Participating in the Farmers Market – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-12 that
would amend Chapter 110 regulating the licensing of businesses by exempting
vendors participating in the Farmers’ Market. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No.
2011-O-12.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-12, seconded by
Council Member Reinersman. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-13 – Relating to Fireworks Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-
13 that would prohibit the storage for sale of any fireworks in any residential
zone within the City limits and prohibiting such sales from anything other than
a permanent structure. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2011-O-13.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen and
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced bids would be received and opened for the Historic District
Survey on Friday at 3:00 p.m. He stated the $7,000 donation from AT&T would be
used to fund this survey project.
Mr. Groth also reported that FEMA specialist would be in Northern Kentucky this
week and would be making inspection of the flood damage on Webster and Marshall
roads.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report. Council Member Yeager
asked if Mr. Deters had looked into changes in the nuisance ordinance as
discussed at the last meeting. Mr. Deters stated he will propose changes if the
changes would be in accord with State law.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced the City’s July 4th Celebration would be held this
year on July 1st from 5-11 pm and July 2nd from 4-11 pm. He stated the City
couldn’t hold this event each year without the donations from local businesses.
He stated the City has received good response for donations again this year. He
stated the parade would be held on Saturday, July 2nd and would begin at
Summitview Schools and end at Memorial Park.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that due to July 4th falling on the first Monday
of the month this year, that the next regular meeting of Council is scheduled
for July 11th.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:07 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 11, 2011
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 11,
2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Council
Member Little was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters and City
Administrator Dan Groth.
Presentation – Independence History Book, Gailen & Debbie Bridges
Mayor Moriconi welcomed Gailen and Debbie Bridges. He stated the Bridges’ have
completed their work on the Independence history book, which is now being
distributed. He stated it looks great. Mr. Bridges thanked everyone that
assisted with the creation of this book. He stated everyone was so supportive
of this effort which is a positive celebration of the City’s history. Mr.
Bridges commented that he hoped this book would express civic pride and be a
tool for economic prospects. He invited everyone to attend the formal
presentation of the book’s distribution which will be held on September 22,
2011 at 11:00 a.m. at the Durr branch of the Kenton County Library. Mr. Bridges
stated he has provided a complimentary copy of the book to the City Clerk for
City records. He stated additional copies will be available at local book
stores and that Walgreen’s has a supply of the books available as well.
Approval of the June 6, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, June 6, 2011. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. An amendment was noted by Council Member
Reinersman with no objection from the other members. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2004-O-15, Map Amendment Conditions
for Meadow Glen Subdivision – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would amend
Ordinance No. 2004-O-15 (relating to a zoning map amendment for the Meadow Glen
Subdivision) that would amend development condition number ten (10) requiring
the developer to make improvements to Webster Road in conjunction with the
development of the subdivision. He stated the developer will still make the
improvements to Webster Road, but would like to change the condition from being
half of the lots being developed to there being only fifty (50) lots remaining
to be developed in the subdivision. Mayor Moriconi stated that Mr. Jim Berling
was here to answer any questions they may have regarding this change.
Council Member Yeager asked how many lots were remaining. Mr. Berling advised
that 190 lots have been developed, which is close to the half way mark. He
stated the downturn in the economy has made it difficult to market the parcels
off of Webster Road but they continue to market from the model home off of
Independence Station Road. He stated they have 135 lots left to develop. He
stated they only built twelve houses in this subdivision last year, so at this
rate it could take some time to market the remaining lots, especially with so
much land available in Independence right now.
Council Member Reinersman advised that because he has done business recently
with Mr. Berling he would be abstaining from any action that Council would take
on this request. There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Award Bid – Historic Downtown Study, ISAC Recommendation
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the City has received five RFP’s (Request
for Proposal) to conduct a Historic District Study of the downtown area. He
stated this project would be funded by the $7,000 donation the City received
from AT&T. He advised that four members of the ISAC Steering Committee have
unanimously selected to recommend that the study be performed by Taylor &
Taylor Associates out of Brookville, Pennsylvania in the amount of $6,750.
Council Member Reinersman advised that conducting this survey is an effort to
protect the downtown area and was recommended by the Kentucky Heritage Council.
He stated that he along with Dan Groth, John Richardson and Rodney Crice
reviewed the proposals received and agreed that Taylor and Taylor had the
qualifications they were looking for. Mr. Groth advised they looked at all the
qualifications of the companies and would like Council to approve their
recommendation to award the proposal to Taylor and Taylor based on this
company’s history of having performed similar surveys. He said the survey would
include forty properties in the downtown area between Independence Station Road
and Hartland Blvd. Council Member Brinker asked how long it would take to
conduct this survey. Mr. Groth advised it would take six months.
There being no further discussion, Council Member Reinersman moved to award the
proposal to conduct a Historic District survey to Taylor and Taylor Associates
in the amount of $6,750. Council Member Bushong seconded the motion. Roll was
called and answered unanimously; motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-14 – Adopting a Pay Plan – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-
14; an ordinance that will adopt an employee Pay and Classification Plan for
the 2011/2012 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2011-O-14.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-14, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Cody Road Update
Mayor Moriconi reported to Council that pursuant to the City’s request for
emergency funding for Cody Road repairs/improvements, the City has received
$100,000 from the Transportation Cabinet’s Municipal Road Aid cooperative
program. He advised that he and Dan Groth met with the listing agent (Mike
Parker of Huff Realty) for the property owner on Cody Road for which the City
would need to acquire land in order to bypass the slippage area on Cody Road.
He stated they discussed the City’s need for approximately 2.5-3 acres to make
the improvement to the road. He commented that he felt it was a good meeting
and the owner seems receptive to donating the land to the City. Mr. Groth
advised the realtor suggested moving just inside the current property line so
that a turn lane could be constructed. He stated that the City Engineer would
need to revise his estimates to accomplish this type of improvement. He said
the cost would probably be in the area of $250,000 - $300,000, which is quite a
bit of money, but it would be up to Council to make this decision.
Council Member Franzen expressed her concern that this was more expensive to
move the road over and asked if the property owner’s donation of land to the
City was contingent on construction of a turn lane. Mr. Groth stated he did not
know. Council Member Yeager stated there was still the issue of flooding under
the train trestle. Going back to the discussion of acquiring land from the
property owner, Council Member asked if they would deed over a permanent
easement. Mr. Deters advised it would not require a permanent easement as it
would become a dedicated city street and right of way.
Mayor Moriconi commented they have been given a verbal loan interest rate of
2.1% if Council was interested in taking out a loan to make these permanent
improvements to Cody Road. Council Member Reinersman stated that currently the
City Engineer’s estimates for repair/improvements are the best figures they
have to take action on. Council Member Bushong commented that it is difficult
to make a decision if we don’t have a firm project cost. Council Member Brinker
suggested that the next step would be to have the City Engineer submit an
updated proposal and then put the project out for bid. He stated that if the
bids come in too high and is unaffordable for the City then we can reject all
the bids. Council Member Bushong asked about getting some in-kind services from
the County road department. Mayor Moriconi commented that there are too many
unknowns right now for them to commit to in-kind services. He said we would
need scope of work specs, bids, etc. before that could be determined. He also
commented that three acres is a lot of land to move. Council Member Brinker
suggested the bid specs be broken down into alternate bids so that City and
County public works department employees could provide some of the labor.
Council Member Brinker asked that the City Engineer re-inspect the area and
make a cost estimate proposal for putting in a turn lane for the next Council
meeting. Council Member Franzen agreed that we need updated figures to
determine whether the City can afford to move the road over. She stated she
needs more info before considering borrowing money for these road improvements.
Mayor Moriconi advised he would set up some meetings to discuss what could be
done with in-house labor and what parts of the project would need to be
contracted out. Council Member Yeager suggested the City and County officials
meet first to discuss available labor and equipment they have in-house.
Council Member Bushong commented that at the opening of the discussion he had
the general feeling that if Council was going to make repairs to the road that
it would be done right. Mayor Moriconi said he may have made that comment at
the last meeting, but it was just his opinion that if the Council would decide
to make repairs then it should be lasting repairs and not just patched.
Council Member Franzen asked what the benefit would be to move the road. Mr.
Groth advised that by moving the road it would take it out of the slide area.
Council Member Yeager commented that was the City Engineer’s most expensive
option, with a project estimate of $640,000. Council Member Franzen commented
that the City Engineer said the road only needed to be moved a little – a few
feet – and if the other option is too expensive then the City needs to only
move it a little.
Mayor Moriconi commented that because of the flooding under the railroad
trestle, he struggles with whether or not the City should repair this road or
just permanently close it to through traffic. Council Member Franzen commented
that the area has only flooded six times in the last 8-9 years. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the Engineer’s cost estimates are hypothetical at this point.
Council Member Reinersman stated that he agrees with Council Member Franzen in
that he would like to find a way to keep Cody Road open to traffic, but he
feels there is not enough information being presented now to make that
decision. Mayor Moriconi stated he would get with the City Engineer for some
preliminary numbers. Council Member Franzen stated she remembers asking the
engineer at the meeting a few weeks ago if repairs were made to pier up the
slippage area if that would be a permanent fix. She recalled that the Engineer
stated that there was no guarantee that piering up one area would not cause a
slide in another area of the road.
Mr. Groth advised that the City Engineer would attend the next meeting of
Council to continue this discussion.
Public Questions and Comment
Brenda Chasteen, 1281 Victory Lane , Independence – addressed Council about the
overgrown grass on Flagstone Drive that is the entrance into the Independence
Pointe Subdivision. She stated the grass has been cut but not between the berm
and the sidewalk and they did not use a weedeater on the areas they were not
able to use a mower on. She stated the landscaping around the subdivision’s
monument sign is also overgrown. She also reported that 9901 Cobblestone was
bush hogged, but looks like a hayfield and the aluminum siding is peeling off
the house. She stated she feels the property owners of these lots need to be
held accountable in maintaining their properties.
A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Moriconi commented that this economy has
resulted in a lot of unoccupied properties and he gets at least two emails each
week about vacant properties in disrepair. Council Member Franzen advised Ms.
Chasteen that there is a process and State laws the City has to follow with
regard to property owners rights. Council Member Reinersman advised Ms.
Chasteen that her complaints are not falling on deaf ears and that the City is
taking this very seriously. Council Member Brinker agreed and said this has
been a lesson learned by the City with developers leaving open green space.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the City could keep two people busy working on
these vacant properties if we could legally go onto private property to
maintain, but we cannot. He stated the City is working on a possible amendment
to the City ordinance for chronic violators and hopes to have a first reading
of a proposed ordinance in three weeks at the August 1st meeting.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Court, Independence – requested the City put some
picnic tables in Independence Park in the Hartland Subdivision. She stated
there seems to be an overabundance of the tables in other City parks, yet the
Independence Park does not have one.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the Northern Kentucky Water District has completed work
on Flintlock and the Public Works will begin the concrete repair. He also
reported that the Recreation Department is now offering yoga classes at the
Senior Center. He stated there was such an overwhelming response to the
Thursday classes that another class was scheduled for Monday evenings.
Council Member Brinker asked when the new traffic light at the new SR17 and
Centennial Blvd. would be activated. Mr. Groth advised that it was discovered
there was no electric lines in the area and that a transformer would need to be
installed. Mayor Moriconi advised that he has a meeting tomorrow to discuss
this issue. He said it could possibly run as high as $10,000 for the
transformer. He stated he doesn’t know why the contractor for the State Highway
Department didn’t’ know that a transformer would be needed in this area.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report, but would need an
executive session.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi advised that the new crack sealer for the Public Works
Department was put out for bid and only one bid was received. He stated that
during budget meetings there was discussion about this piece of equipment and
whether to purchase this new, used or partner with another city for the
purchase. He stated that it was decided that it was better to purchase this new
and the bid received came in below the estimated budget. He stated a bid was
received from Brewpro, Inc. in the amount of $39,778.00
Award Bid for Crack Sealer
Council Member Reinersman move to award the crack sealer bid to Brewpro, Inc.
in the amount of $39,778.00, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Mayor Moriconi presented a Resolution to Council that would authorize the lease
purchase agreement with Huntington Bank for the purchase of the crack sealer,
as well as three vehicles for the Administration staff and a midsize dump truck
for the Public Works Department. He said the administration staff is using
eleven-year old vehicles which are gas hogs.
Resolution No. 2011-R-06 – Authorize Lease Purchase Agreement
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2011-R-06. Council Member Bushong moved to adopt
Resolution No. 2011-R-06 that would authorize a lease purchase agreement with
Huntington Bank for the purchase of vehicles and equipment. The motion was
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Mayor Moriconi thanked everyone involved with putting on another successful
July 4th Celebration. He thanked Council Member Yeager and Recreation Director
Nita Brake for obtaining sponsorship donations for the fireworks display on
Saturday and Council Member Brinker for taking a week of vacation from his job
to handle all the electrical needs of the event. Council Member Reinersman
commented that donations from the IBA (Independence Business Association) have
contributed approximately $115,000 toward City events.
Mayor Moriconi reported that since the Clerk’s office obtained the designation
of Passport Acceptance Facility the City has processed over 350 passport
applications. He stated the City’s required processing fee of $25 per applicant
has netted a profit of $7,300 during the last fiscal year.
Executive Session
At 8 10 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to go into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:33 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:34 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 1, 2011
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 1,
2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters and City Administrator Dan
Groth.
Approval of the July 11 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, July 11, 2011. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered with five ayes. Council Member Little abstained from voting. Motion
carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2011-R-07 – Approving the MRA Co-Operative Agreement with the
Transportation Cabinet
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2011-R-07 authorizing which
would approve the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program contract with the
State Transportation Cabinet for the 2011-2012 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2011-R-07.
Council Member Reinersman moved to adopt Resolution No. 2011-R-07, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. There being no discussion roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-15 – Amending Ordinance No. 2004-O-15, Map Amendment
Conditions for Meadow Glen Subdivision – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-
15 that would amend Ordinance No. 2004-O-15 (relating to a zoning map amendment
for the Meadow Glen Subdivision) and would amend development condition number
ten (10) requiring the developer to make improvements to Webster Road in
conjunction with the development of the subdivision. Mr. Deters read Ordinance
No. 2011-O-15. Mayor Moriconi advised this amendment would only effect
condition number ten of the sixteen conditions that are imposed on this
development.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-15, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Council Member Reinersman stated he has recently done
business with Mr. Berling, so he would recuse himself from participating in the
discussion and any action taken by the Council. There being no further
discussion, roll was called and answered with five ayes. Council Member
Reinersman abstained from the vote. Motion carried 5-0 in favor.
Cody Road Proposal by City Engineer, CDS & Associates
Mayor Moriconi introduced City Engineer Mark Brueggemann who was present to re-
address the options submitted to Council at the May 2, 2011 meeting regarding a
permanent solution to the hill slide issue on Cody Road. The slippage area of
Cody Road has been closed since mid April. Mr. Brueggemann reviewed the options
being proposed as:
·   Option 1 – Roadway Relocation: This option would move the roadway out of
the slide area and improve the sight distance and roadway width issues. At a
probable project cost of $600,000 it is the most expensive option. The negative
issues with this option would be the purchase of addition right-of-way
acquisition, which is not included in the cost estimate and this option does
not address the flooding area or the geometry at the railroad underpass.
·   Option 2 – Drilled Shaft Wall: This would stabilize the current road within
the existing right-of-way by constructing approximately 550 ft. of drilled
shaft retaining wall. This option does not address sight distance problem or
flooding area under the railroad underpass. Probable cost estimate for this
option is $480,000.
·   Option 3 – Close the road permanently and construct cul-de-sacs: For
probable costs estimate of $125,000 this is the least expensive option. The
section to be closed is between Upton Drive and the railroad underpass. Then
construct a turn around to the existing driveway at 5500 Cody Road. This option
eliminates the need to solve the hill slide problem and it also addresses the
flood problem area and eliminates the safety problem of sight distance due to
geometrics.
Mr. Brueggemann stated that both the police and fire departments have provided
written statements stating that the closure of this section of Cody Road will
not have an adverse effect on response time for emergency services they provide
the City residents. He stated since Option 1 and Option 2 do not address all
the issues it would be his recommendation to close the road as it is the most
economical solution for the City and it addresses all the safety issues.
Mr. Groth advised Council that he, along with the Public Works Director and
Crew Leader met with the County Public Works Department and the bottom line is
that the County nor the City has the necessary heavy equipment needed to move
20,000 yards of debris and dirt to move the road. Danny Koch, Public Works Crew
Leader commented the flood gates had to be raised several times each year due
to heavy rains. He stated he agrees that the most logical thing for the City to
do would be to close this section of Cody Road permanently.
Mayor Moriconi commented that it might not have to be closed permanently if the
adjacent property is developed in the future. Mr. Groth stated the City has
received $100,000 in emergency road aid from the Kentucky Transportation
Department which could be used to close the road. Mr. Brueggemann advised that
the opinion of probable costs were based without sending out survey crews, so
it is possible that the costs could come in lower than their projections.
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road, Independence – stated he thinks the City should
fix the road and keep it open. He expressed concern that some residents would
have restricted access. Mayor Moriconi assured everyone that the City cannot
cut off access to their property.
Dorsey Chasteen, 1281 Victory, Independence - stated the alternate route of
taking Independence Station Road adds another 1.5 miles. He expressed concerns
that the school busses are crossing the railroad tracks.
Mayor Moriconi stated that the cost of Option 1 is too great and questioned how
the City would pay for this. He stated he is not comfortable taking this amount
of money from the City’s reserve fund which would take that fund below what is
recommended to keep the City fiscally responsible and in keeping with
government accounting standards.
Council Member Reinersman commented that if the City would opt to fix the road,
while it makes sense to go with Option 1 and do it right, the probable cost
estimate exceeds the City’s entire annual road repair budget to fix one street.
He stated that even if the City fixes the slippage there is still the problem
of flooding and railroad trestle.
Mayor Moriconi addressed Mr. Chasteen’s concern about the school buses by
advising that the Kenton County School District is okay with the road closure.
Mr. Koch commented that the school buses have been traveling Bristow Road as a
safer, alternate route.
Council Member Bushong stated that he agreed the City could not reasonably
afford to repair the slippage on Cody Road. He made a motion to accept the City
Engineer’s recommendation to close the road using the $100,000 emergency road
aid provided by the Kentucky Transportation Department and authorize the city
attorney to initiate the necessary proceedings to close the road. The motion
was seconded by Council Member Reinersman.
Further discussion ensued. A member of the audience asked about using the
County’s equipment. The Mayor explained that initially the County offered to
assist the City with in-kind services of labor and equipment before learning
the magnitude of the project. Council Member Brinker commented that he would
like to keep the road open but the cost is making it prohibitive and there is
not enough support from the community asking the City not to close the road.
Margaret Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence – suggested the road be closed for
now and then re-open when the area is developed. Council Member Franzen stated
she would like to explore other options to keep the road open.
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum, Independence – suggested holding a public hearing to
get input from the citizens. Mayor Moriconi commented that everyone that would
attend a public hearing would be the proponents for keeping the road open and
if the City would decide to keep it open then the City still has the dilemma of
how to pay for the repairs.
City Attorney, Mr. Deters advised that in order for the City to close the road,
all those affected would have to give their consent. He stated that anyone who
wants to challenge this would get a hearing before the district court judge.
Mr. Deters stated that the road is currently closed under a temporary order by
the Police Department. He stated they have that authority to provide safety to
the citizens.
Council Member Franzen suggested that additional right-of-way that would be
needed for Option 1 might be donated to the City by the property owners. Mr.
Groth stated the owners realtor suggested this might be a possibility but that
the owners would want a turn lane constructed in exchange for the donated land.
He stated this would still be very costly. Council Member Little asked if there
have been any major issues or problems or concerns from the School Board since
the road was closed four months ago. Mr. Groth stated he had one inquiry from
the Post Office wanting to know when the road would be re-opened, but no calls
from the schools. Council Member Franzen commented that she doesn’t think the
residents of Troopers Crossing and Battle Ridge subdivisions are aware the City
is discussing a permanent closure of the road and she feels certain they would
like to have it remain open.
There was a brief discussion on ways to finance the road repairs in order to
keep the road open. The Mayor said that $200,000 could be taken from the
reserve fund. There was also the $100,000 received from the State emergency
road aid. Mayor Moriconi wondered if the railroad would have any culpability to
help the City pay for the road repairs to keep it open as the vibrations to the
ground area from the passing trains may have contributed to the road slippage.
Mayor Moriconi stated there was a motion and second on the floor (Bushong/
Reinersman) to select Option 3 as submitted and recommended by the City
Engineer to close Cody Road. Council Member Reinersman suggested the City could
re-open the road in the future. Mr. Deters advised that when a road is closed
the land reverts to the owners on either side of the road, so if the City
should decide in the future to re-open the road they would need to reacquire
the land from the property owners. Council Member Reinersman asked if the City
had any other options. Mr. Deters advised it could be kept closed temporarily.
Jim Berling, developer of Troopers Crossing, stated he would like to see the
road kept open. He stated he still owns 4-5 acres on the other side of Upton
Drive and he would be happy to take a look at this and see if there is
something they could work on jointly with the City. Council Member Reinersman
commented that the land in this area will be more appealing to developers if
the road is open. Council Member Little commented that if the road is closed
the right-of-way will go to the railroad and if the railroad would ever change
the bridge structure then the city would never be able to re-open that section
of Cody Road. Council Member Reinersman stated that up till now all his
opinions were predicated on the possibility of re-opening the road some day.
There being no further discussion, roll was called which resulted in a tie
vote; three ayes were cast by Council Members Bushong, Little and Yeager and
three nays were cast from Council Members Reinersman, Brinker and Franzen.
Mayor Moriconi cast the tie breaking vote by voting in favor of the road
closure. Motion carried 4-3. Mayor Moriconi commented that while he would like
to see the road kept open he does not know how the City can pay for it.
Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that he has provided them a copy of the Kenton
County Mayor’s Group Subdivision Regulation Review Committee recommendations
for the proposed update of the Kenton County Subdivision Regulations. He stated
the proposed changes would require developers to construct roadways with
thicker concrete, drain tiles, etc. Mr. Groth advised that the goal is to
finalize the new regulations in a couple of months and have in place by late
fall of this year. Mayor Moriconi advised this is just a draft copy of the
proposed recommendations. He stated we deal with a lot of concrete and blacktop
street failures and these proposed regulations should lengthen the life of new
streets. Council Member Bushong asked if the City had any recourse. Mayor
Moriconi stated the City has to object to any deficiencies within 45 days of
the inspection and after that time we have no recourse.
Brenda Chasteen, 1281 Victory Lane, Independence – stated the grass problem
continues at the entrance to the Independence Pointe subdivision off Cody Road.
She said it was cut today, but the area was not trimmed. Council Member Franzen
commented that a group of them met last week to work on a document that would
allow the City to deal with the chronic offenders of the zoning laws. She
stated they are trying to work something out but the City has to keep in line
with the state law as well. Mayor Moriconi stated the City is limited on what
can be legally done so we are doing due diligence to draft something that will
hold up. Council Member Little stated he feels we have worked out a resolution
that will deal with the chronic violators. Mayor Moriconi stated he hopes to
have something to present to Council at the next meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:57 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 29, 2011
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
29, 2011 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters. City Administrator
Dan Groth was absent.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this Special meeting of Council
was being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Property Tax Rates for 2011 – 1st Reading
·   Award Bid – Mid-Size Dump Truck for the Public Works Department
·   Award Bid – Drilling & Placement of Rails for Marshall & Webster Roads
·   Declare Surplus Property – List of Vehicles & Miscellaneous Property
·   Resolution No. 2011-R-08 Supporting a Planning Grant Application with NKAPC
as Co-Applicant
·   Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Code Enforcement by Allowing Issuance of a
Citation without First Issuing a Notice of Violation – 1st Reading
·   Cody Road Information
·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Property Tax Rates for 2011 – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the 2011 real estate and personal property tax rates using the
compensating rates that have been calculated by the Area Development District
(NKADD) and confirmed by the City’s Finance Director. The proposed compensating
rates are .224/$100 of assessed value for real estate property and .737/$100 of
assessed value for personal property. Mayor Moriconi opened the floor for
discussion.
Council Member Little stated he took information from the calculation sheets
prepared by the City’s Finance Director and condensed the information down. He
distributed to the Council Members documents he prepared that illustrated the
current (2011) property values times last year’s tax rate of .200/$100 of
assessed value which would generate additional revenue of $102,584. He stated
the assessed property values increased $12,000,000 over last year. He stated
that this is a 2011-12 budget shortfall of about $168,678 and that in order to
collect enough revenue to fund the budget passed in June the City would need to
adopt a higher rate than .200/$100. Mayor Moriconi commented that he was
surprised to see the property assessments increased over last year.
Council Member Bushong stated he thought the budget was based on increasing the
payroll tax to 1.5% (up from 1.25%) and questioned how the revenue was
estimated. Mayor Moriconi explained that the budget was based on the assumption
that there would be an adjustment of the property tax rates or the payroll tax
rate. Council Member Little stated it is hard to guess at the exact revenue
when the City doesn’t have the assessed values at the time the budget is
prepared. The Mayor said the budget projections for the payroll revenue were
based on the current payroll tax rate which brought in $1,800,000 last year.
Mayor Moriconi stated in preparing the budget the assumption was that the
Council would adopt the compensating property tax rate not increasing the
payroll tax rate. Council Member Bushong wondered if some of the figures were
overestimated. Mayor Moriconi stated that since Council did not favor taking
out a loan for needed street repairs, that he chose to propose an aggressive
budget for street repairs. Council Member Reinersman agreed that the 2011-12
budget provided a significant increase in street repairs.
Mayor Moriconi stated he appreciated the good information compiled by Council
Members Little and Reinersman with the tax calculations and chart comparing
Independence to other cities. He stated that by holding the property tax rate
the same the last couple years it is starting to have a backward effect and
hindering the City’s ability to keep up with inflation as many expenses
continue to rise such as insurance and utilities. He stated it is becoming
unsustainable to keep the same tax rate and the City will have to dip into the
reserve account just to make ends meet.
Council Member Little also provided projections on tax revenue that could be
generated if the City would opt to increase the payroll tax. He stated since it
would not take effect until January 1st it would only benefit six months of
this budget which would not make up for the shortfall in revenue. Council
Member Reinersman expressed concern in raising the payroll tax rate as he feels
it would be a detriment in attracting new business to the City at a time when
we are trying to focus on economic development. He stated he would not be in
favor of a payroll tax increase.
Council Member Little stated that taking the proposed real property
compensating rate of .224/$100 would yield $350,412 in revenue. In an exhibit
he provided to Council he indicated that this City’s real estate tax rate is on
the lower end in comparison to other cities in Northern Kentucky while our
tangible (personal) property tax rate is much higher that other cities. Council
Member Reinersman suggested adjusting the property tax rate and leaving the
tangible tax rate the same as last year at .596/$100 of assessed value. Council
Members Little and Franzen concurred. Council Member Franzen suggested keeping
both tax rates the same as last year and then making up the shortfall next year
when the economy improves.
A discussion ensued on a property tax rate that would fund the budget adopted
in June. Mayor Moriconi suggested half of the compensating rate which would be
.212/$100. Council Member Little commented so much depends on how the budget
expenses are going so far this year. Mayor Moriconi commented that one of his
concerns is the unknown amount that could be spent on snow/ice removal during
the winter months.
Margaret Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence – commented that if a resident can’t
afford an additional $28-$30 per year in property tax increase then perhaps
they can’t really afford to own property. She stated she feels the City has
done a wonderful job on the budget and the City is not in debt except for the
Municipal Center building. She stated she did not want to see the City slide
backward by not raising the revenue needed.
Council Member Brinker wondered how the tangible tax rate was so much higher
than other cities. Mayor Moriconi stated the rate builds over time. Council
Member Brinker asked Mayor Moriconi how he would use the additional revenue if
Council would take the compensating rate. Mayor Moriconi advised his preference
would be to use any additional revenue on repairs and maintenance of the
streets.
Council Member Little commented that the City has not taken the compensating
rate for the last two years and over all the rate has remained pretty steady
for the last six years. Mayor Moriconi again commented that the 2011-12 budget
was based on assumptions of increased revenue and prior history of revenue and
expenses. Further discussion centered on a property tax rate that would be mid-
way between last year’s rate of .200/$100 and this year’s compensating rate of
.224/$100. Council Member Little suggested a real property rate of .210/$100
would provide enough revenue to balance the budget without tapping into the
reserve fund.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt a real estate tax rate of .215/$100 of
assessed value and a tangible (personal) property rate of .596/$100 (same as
2010), seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Council Member Franzen commented
that she didn’t expect the assessed values would come in as high as they did.
Mayor Moriconi stated that we don’t usually take a roll call vote on a first
reading, but he would like to see if a majority of Council agrees with these
rates before a second reading at the next meeting. The Clerk called the roll
and it was answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0. Mr. Deters gave a first
reading of the proposed ordinance to adopt the tax rates as stated in the
motion by Council Member Yeager. Mayor Moriconi advised the ordinance would be
presented for a second reading and adoption at the September 12th meeting.
Award Bid – Mid-Size Dump Truck for the Public Works Department
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council three bids that were received for the
purchase of a midsize dump truck. He stated that the Public Services Director
has recommended the bid be awarded to Peterbilt of Cincinnati in the amount of
$58,664.06. Council Member Little stated he spoke with the Public Services
Director who advised that the Peterbilt dealer attended the bid opening and has
been very responsive in answering questions and because of this service feels
this is the best bid. He stated there is only a $300 difference between the
Peterbilt bid and the low bid from Woody Sander Ford.
Council member Yeager moved to award the bid for the purchase of a mid-size
dump truck to Peterbilt of Cincinnati in the amount of $58,664.06, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. There being no further discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Award Bid – Drilling & Placement of Rails for Marshall & Webster Roads
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council one bid received from Hennecke Drilling LLC
for the drilling and placing of rails on Marshall Road and Webster Road.
Council Member Franzen moved to award the bid for this project to Hennecke
Drilling LLC in the amount of $33,120.00, seconded by Council Member Little.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property – Vehicles and Miscellaneous Items to be Auctioned
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a list of City property that staff is
recommending to be declared as surplus so that these items can be included in
the Kenton County auction to be held on September 17, 2011. He stated the list
includes seven old model cruisers dating between 2000 and 2002 and about twenty
miscellaneous items. He stated the miscellaneous items include portable
heaters, wrist watches, MP3 player, portable game system, CD player, speakers
sets, etc. Police Captain Tony Lucas advised the miscellaneous list is
confiscated property of unknown origin.
Council Member Little moved to declare the vehicles and miscellaneous list as
surplus City property, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Council Member
Bushong asked if the City would be purchasing new cars to replace the vehicles
being auctioned. Mayor Moriconi advised that three new cars were budgeted to
replace some of the ones being auctioned. He stated these older vehicles have
become expensive to maintain and are not fuel efficient. He stated the City has
ordered two Ford Fusions and one Ford Taurus.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2011-R-08 – Supporting a Planning Grant Application with NKAPC
as Co-Applicant
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a Resolution that would support an
application for the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s fiscal
year 2011 Community Challenge Planning Grant Program as a co-applicant with the
Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission (NKAPC). This program will aid in
the exploration of design and economic feasibility of redevelopment for focused
areas within the City. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2011-R-08.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Reinersman stated this is a new grant
possibility that would provide federal dollars to regional and local planning.
He stated that NKAPC staff has been working with the City’s Steering Committee
on an update to the City’s zoning code and the NKAPC staff will write the
grant. Council Member Bushong asked if this was a matching grant. Council
Member Reinersman stated the City’s match would be 20% which could be with in-
kind services. Council Member Yeager asked the total grant amount. Council
Member Reinersman replied that the total grant amount would be in the ball park
of $400,000-$500,000. He said the deadline for the grant application is Friday,
September 9, 2011. He went on to say that considering the brief time frame they
had to work within; the NKAPC staff compiled some approximate figures. Council
Member Yeager expressed some concern at not having some concrete figures
regarding the City’s share of the grant. Council Member Franzen suggested the
City could refuse the grant if it was awarded and the 20% exceeded the City’s
budget. Council Member Yeager advised that anytime a grant is awarded and
refused it can have a detrimental effect on future grant applications/awards.
Council Member Reinersman commented he understands and shares the concerns
about such an open-ended proposal.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Resolution No. 2011-R-08, seconded by
Council Member Reinersman. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one
no vote cast by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried 5-1. Mayor Moriconi
advised Council he would get more clarity on this grant application and report
back at the next meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Code Enforcement by Allowing Issuance of a
Citation without First Issuing a Notice of Violation – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Section 39.09 of the City’s Code of Ordinances by allowing a code
enforcement officer to issue a citation without first issuing a notice of
violation. Mayor Moriconi stated this amendment would be a way to better deal
with the chronic violators. Council Member Little commented that he feels this
amendment will give the City’s code enforcement officer more muscle. There
being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Cody Road Information
Mayor Moriconi stated he doesn’t have too much to report on the Cody Road
closing, except that the City may be able to work out something with a
developer to keep the road open. He stated he hopes to have more to report at
the September 12th meeting. At the last meeting the Council voted to
permanently close the road as the cost to make the slippage repairs was too
costly. He stated he has received some email correspondence wherein residents
are expressing concerns about the increased traffic on Independence Station
Road. The Mayor went on to say that if something can be worked out with a
developer this could potentially be good news.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:08 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 12, 2011
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
12, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters and City
Administrator Dan Groth.
Approval of the August 1 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, August 1, 2011. Council Member Reinersman so moved,
with second by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Approval of the August 29, 2011 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on Monday, August 29, 2011. Council Member Yeager so moved, with
second by Council Member Little. One amendment was presented without objection
by Council Member Little; roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-16 – Adopt Rates for 2011 Real & Personal Property Taxes –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-16 that
would adopt the 2011 property tax rates for real estate and personal property.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2011-O-16 establishing the ad valorem tax on real
estate property at $0.215 dollars for each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
assessed value and a personal property tax rate of $0.596 dollars for each one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-16, seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-17 – Relating to Code Enforcement by Allowing Issuance of
a Citation without First Issuing a Notice of Violation – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-17 that
would allow a code enforcement officer to issue a citation without first
issuing a notice of violation. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
There being no discussion, Council Member Little moved to adopt Ordinance No.
2011-O-17 seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Allowing for Temporary Off-Site Vehicular Sales or Display
Events by Dealers – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration a proposed
ordinance that would allow for temporary off side vehicular sales or display
events by dealers.
Mr. Groth advised Council that the City has been approached by a dealer
representative who would like to have a “tent” sale to sell cars in the Towne
Center by Kroger’s. He stated that our current zoning regulations do not allow
tent sales. Council Member Reinersman asked if this would be for a single
event. Zoning Administrator, Annie Wuestefeld stated it could be more
than one event, but only if the City adopts this proposed ordinance. Mr. Deters
advised that the vehicle dealers also have to hold a State license in order to
have these special sales events. Ms. Wuestefeld advised that the City’s zoning
regulations do not allow car sales or tent sales. A brief discussion ensued
with regard to zones these events would be permitted in and the time frame for
each event. Mr. Deters stated he thinks that the length of each event is
stipulated in the KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations). Council Member
Reinersman suggested limiting the number of events that a dealer could hold
each year.
Council Member Brinker suggested tabling any action on this proposed ordinance
until more information could be obtained. Mr. Groth stated he would check with
the City of Florence to see how they handle this type of outdoor/tent sales.
Mr. Deters stated he would get a copy of the KAR. Ms. Wuestefeld stated the big
difference between Independence and some other cities, like Florence, is that
most other cities allow outdoor sales and/or permit auto sales in some of their
zones. She stated the dealer has State regulations to follow and has to submit
an application – a 45-day time period – to get approval. Mr. Deters commented
the dealer would not have time to have a sale event in this calendar year.
Mayor Moriconi suggested obtaining a copy of regulations imposed by other
communities, such as Florence and Campbell County, and present more information
on this at the October 3rd meeting.
Resolution No. 2011-R-09 – Adopting a Military Group – Ky National Guard, 1204
Aviation Group
Mayor Moriconi reported that the City has been approached with a request to
adopt a military unit – Kentucky National Guard, 1204 Aviation Group. He
advised a Resolution is being presented for their consideration in adopting
this unit. Mayor Moriconi stated the City will solicit corporate sponsors to
pay the shipping costs of care packages sent to the soldiers. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2011-R-09. Mr. Groth advised the unit has just been deployed and
is currently stationed in Fort Hood before going overseas.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to adopt Resolution No. 2011-R-09. Roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried.
Resolution No. 2011-R-10 – In Support of First Responders & Honoring the 10th
Anniversary of 9/11
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2011-R-10 in support of
first responders and honoring the tenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on
the United States on September 11, 2001. He reported that he read this
Resolution at yesterday’s Patriot Day memorial service held at the Senior
Center. He stated a good crowd attended the service. Mayor Moriconi read
Resolution No. 2011-R-10.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Little to adopt Resolution No. 2011-R-10. Roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried.
Declare Surplus Property – Fleet Vehicle to be Auctioned
Mayor Moriconi reported that at the last meeting of Council several City
vehicles were declared as surplus property and were scheduled to be auctioned
in September. He advised that one of those vehicles would now be retained and
another needed to be declared surplus instead. He said it was discovered that
one of the 2001 spare vehicles was in better condition that a 2003, so he is
asking that the 2003 Chevrolet Impala (maroon color) be declared surplus and be
auctioned on September 17th. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Yeager. Roll as called and answered unanimously; motion carried
6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the Independence Farmers’ Market will hold a Fall Fest
on Saturday, October 1, 2011 from 8:30 – 2:00. He stated there will be music,
children’s games, crafters and a pumpkin painting contest by local students.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order 2011-EO-01 – Appointment to Senior Board of Directors –Mayor
Moriconi presented to Council Executive Order 2011-EO-01 appointing Ray
Hardebeck to the Senior Center Board of Directors. Council Member Franzen moved
to approve Executive Order 2011-EO-01, seconded by Council Member Reinersman.
No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
Cody Road Update – Mayor Moriconi reported that a local developer has
approached the City with a proposal to reconstruct the section of Cody Road
where the slippage occurred. The developer will work with the abutting property
owner to acquire the needed land for the road work. He reported that he met
with the engineers to discuss the realignment of the road, constructing a
shoulder area and installing drainage pipes. Mayor Moriconi advised that the
developer would handle this project, acquire the needed land and once the
roadway is finished would then turn back to the City for $300,000. He stated
this cost is half the original estimate the City received to realign the road
and make the necessary repairs. A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Moriconi
stated the reconstruction would involve the entire slippage area. He presented
to Council a proposed purchase agreement with Jim Berling wherein both parties
agree that the improvements shall be constructed according to plans and
specifications approved by the City Engineer and wherein the City agrees to
purchase the improved right-of-way in the amount of $300,000 when the project
is completed.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to authorize the Mayor to enter into the
purchase agreement with Jim Berling for the construction of a new and relocated
right-of-way on Cody Road. The motion was seconded by Council Member Yeager.
Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:34 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 3, 2011
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
3, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman
and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters and City
Administrator Dan Groth. Mayor Moriconi advised Council that Council Member
Bushong had an excused absence from tonight’s meeting.
Proclamation – Recognition of Veterans Day
Mayor Moriconi proclaimed the week of November 6 through November 12, 2011 as a
week-long celebration honoring all veterans and urging the community to honor
the dedicated men and women who currently serve or have served in defense of
the United States.
Approval of the September12, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, September 12, 2011. Council Member Yeager so moved,
with second by Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted; roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Allowing for Temporary Off-Site Vehicular Sales by Auto
Dealers – 1st reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
allow for temporary off-site vehicular sales or vehicular display events by
dealers in the NSC (Neighborhood Shopping Center) zones. He reminded Council
this was first presented at last month’s meeting and action was postponed. He
stated the ordinance has been revised to include the concerns discussed last
month.
Council Member Reinersman stated he would like the schools to be included in
allowable zones. Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld stated that schools are
considered a conditional use in the R1-C zones and the R1-C zone would need to
be added to this ordinance to allow the schools to hold car display events. A
brief discussion ensued with Ms. Wuestefeld responding to Council’s questions.
Ms. Wuestefeld responded that the property owner would be the applicant to hold
this type of temporary sale on their property – not the vehicular dealer – and
a stipulation in the City ordinance is that each location could only hold this
type of sale no more than three times each year. She stated that KAR
regulations allow each event to be held a maximum of five days. She stated the
City ordinance would require the dealer to obtain a permit for the off-site-
sale with a site plan attached to the permit application. Ms. Wuestefeld also
advised that the City only has two locations that would have adequate parking
for these types of events; being the Independence Towne Center and the Cherokee
Shopping Center.
There being no further questions or discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Text Amendment to the Flood Plain Regulations
– 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a text amendment to the City’s zoning ordinance amending the flood
plain regulations for the City. Mrs. Wuestefeld advised Council that this text
amendment is in keeping with current State regulations. She stated that the
NKAPC noticed inconsistencies in the current flood plain regulations and
submitted the proposed changes. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading. He commented that this proposed ordinance will abolish the current
regulations and adopt the new regulations pursuant to Kentucky law.
Resolution No. 2011-R-11 – Authorizing Mayor’s Group to Donate the City’s
Portion of Funds to the Upkeep of the Kenton County 9/11 Memorial
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2011-R-11 that would
authorize the Kenton County Mayor’s Group to donate the City portion of the
checking account funds to the upkeep of the Kenton County 9/11 Memorial.
He explained that the Mayor’s Group opened this checking account many years ago
in anticipation of needing funds to fight a consolidation proposal by the
County. He stated the Mayor’s Group has decided to close this inactive bank
account and discussed options to disperse the funds. He stated that each City
would only be refunded approximately $34.00. After some discussion at the
Mayor’s Group meeting a motion was made to donate the money to the new Kenton
County 9/11 Memorial located in Veterans Park in Crescent Springs. He advised
Council that each City is being asked to approve this donation.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Resolution No. 2011-R-11 authorizing
the Kenton County Mayor’s Group to donate the City’s portion of the bank funds
to the upkeep of the Kenton County 9/11 Memorial. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that City, in collaboration with the Chamber of Commerce
would hold a government/business luncheon on Friday, October 14, 2011 at the
Senior Center. He invited the Council Members to attend the luncheon. He stated
the sponsors of the luncheon are Park National Bank and CDS Engineers.
Mr. Groth also reported the Police Department has received a $7,715 grant from
the Department of Homeland Security for the purchase of three body armors. He
stated the Department of Homeland Security is able to provide these grant funds
from the auction of confiscated guns. The money from the auctions is then
dispersed to the cities to purchase safety equipment.
In closing, Mr. Groth announced the City will observe Halloween on Monday,
October 31st from 6-8 p.m. – and that the Independence FOP will hold a Haunted
Trail fundraiser at Memorial Park on Saturday, October 22nd from 7-11 p.m.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Cody Road Update – Mayor Moriconi reported that excavation has begun on the
road slippage on Cody Road and that, weather permitting, the project should be
completed within five weeks.
Executive Order 2011-EO-02
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Executive Order appointing Darrell
Herald to the Independence Senior Center Board of Directors. He advised Council
that Mr. Herald has many years experience in the banking industry and he
appreciates his willingness to serve on this Board. Council approved this
appointment with all ayes.
Mr. Groth announced that the ISAC Steering Committee will meet on Thursday,
October 20, 2011 from 6-8 pm in the Council Chambers. He also announced the
Committee would hold an Open Forum meeting at Simon Kenton High School on
November 14th from 7-9 pm. He stated this Open Forum would provide an
opportunity for citizen input regarding the form based codes being proposed for
the downtown, courthouse area of the City.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:16 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 7, 2011
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
7, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Bushong gave an invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters and City Administrator Dan Groth.
Captain Rusty E. Mardis, U.S. Air Force
Mayor Moriconi introduced and welcomed United States Air Force Captain Rusty E.
Mardis. Captain Mardis thanked Mayor Moriconi and Council for the Proclamation
he received from the City in April in recognition of his military service to
this country. He stated he was very appreciative of this Proclamation, sent a
letter to the City and advised that when he was back in the States he would
come to a meeting to personally thank everyone. Captain Mardis stated the
City’s token of recognition of his military career was greatly appreciated by
him and his family. He stated that he bragged about receiving this Proclamation
to his military friends while stationed in Afghanistan and they were shocked
that the City extended this honor. Captain Mardis presented the City with an
American flag that was flown in Afghanistan, which represents all the men and
women serving this country. Mayor Moriconi thanked Captain Mardis for his
service and the gift to the City.
Comprehensive Plan Update – Jenna Haverkos, NKAPC & Maura Snyder, KCPC City
Representative
Mayor Moriconi introduced Jenna Haverkos, Principal Planner with the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission and Maura Snyder who serves as the City’s
representative on the Kenton County Planning Commission. He stated they will
present information on the county-wide Comprehensive Plan Update. Mayor
Moriconi advised that updating the Comprehensive Plan is a lengthy process and
will take approximately 1-2 years. Ms. Snyder advised Council on the important
reasons for the new Comprehensive Plan which is being called “Direction 2030.”
She stated the new Plan will be a twenty year vision for land use, housing and
transportation needs. She stated that heavy emphasis will be on obtaining
public input. She encouraged participation in the process by attending one or
more of the three rounds of public meetings that will be held at various
locations throughout the county. Ms. Snyder asked the Council Members and Mayor
to share their ideas and vision for the next twenty years. Ms. Haverkos stated
this round of public meetings is a separate process from the City’s current
committee meetings regarding the zoning update meeting that will be held on
November 14, 2011.
There was a brief question and answer session, wherein Ms. Haverkos explained
that the Comprehensive Plan is updated every five years and that “Direction
2030” will create a new vision for the Comprehensive Plan. Mayor Moriconi
advised that basically the Comprehensive Plan will be completely overhauled
with a new foundation for a twenty year vision that will then be updated every
five years. Ms. Haverkos advised that the foundation of the current
Comprehensive Plan originated in the 1970’s and that “Direction 2030” will
establish a whole new vision for the county. Mayor Moriconi advised Council
that NKAPC will periodically provide updates during this process. He stated the
second round of public meetings will be after the first of the New Year. Ms.
Haverkos also advised current information on this process can be obtained on
the Planning Commission’s website as it will be updated often.
Approval of the October 3, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, October 3, 2011. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Reinersman. No amendments were noted; roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-18 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment to the Flood Plain
Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-18 which
would approve a zoning text amendment amending the flood plain regulations. Mr.
Deters read Ordinance No. 2011-O-18.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-O-18, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2011-O-19 – Allowing for Temporary Off-Site Vehicular Sales by
Auto Dealers – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2011-O-19 which
would allow for temporary off-site vehicular sales or vehicular display events
by dealers in the NSC (Neighborhood Shopping Center) zones. Mr. Deters read
Ordinance No. 2011-O-19.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Reinersman expressed concern that
this could have an adverse affect on Simon Kenton High School and St. Cecilia
Church/School by precluding them from holding “cruise-in” car show events. Mrs.
Wuestefeld, Zoning Administrator, advised that since schools are exempt from
zoning laws that this would not affect them. Council Member Little asked if the
City would benefit by way of taxes. Mr. Groth responded yes. Council Member
Yeager asked for a couple clarifications in the text of the ordinance.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member
Reinersman and seconded by Council Member Brinker to adopt Ordinance No. 2011-
O-19. Roll was called and answered with three ayes and three no votes cast by
Council Members Franzen, Little and Bushong. Mayor Moriconi broke the tie by
casting an aye vote. Motion carried 4-3 in favor of adopting Ordinance No.
2011-O-19.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth introduced Amy Scalf who is the new reporter for the South Kenton
Recorder. He stated she will be covering Independence news and he looks forward
to working with her.
Mr. Groth reported that repairs on Webster and Marshall Roads are completed. He
stated that FEMA funds were received which paid for seventy-five percent of the
expense and Kentucky paid twelve percent, with the remaining cost paid by the
City. He stated that repairs have also been completed on Rice Road, Flintrock,
Chestnut and Catalpa roads.
Mr. Groth advised that the Industrial Park Management Council will meet this
Thursday.
Mr. Groth reported that the City has partnered with Northern Kentucky
University’s Center for Economic Analysis and Development Department that will
report housing trends and other economic development data for the City. Mayor
Moriconi stated the NKU approached the City about compiling this data for the
City and they have done a great job. Mr. Groth stated these reports will be
presented to the Council Members as they are received.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order 2011-EO-03 - Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Executive
Order re-appointing Todd Shupe and Catherine Wilson to the Board of
Adjustments. He thanked them for their service on this Board.
Cody Road Update – Mayor Moriconi reported that today he inspected the progress
on the re-construction of Cody Road. He advised they are on schedule due to
good weather and should by laying the blacktop by Thanksgiving. He stated he is
hopeful that the road can be reopened by December.
Mayor Moriconi reported to Council that a resident has approached the City with
an offer to permit the City of develop a thirteen acre parcel behind the
Pembroke Subdivision for recreational use as a biking/mountain dirt path. He
stated the City would not take ownership of the land. He advised they are in
the beginning stages of working out the logistics, etc. and will provide more
information as it becomes available.
Christmas Walk – Mayor Moriconi reported that the Christmas Walk and Tour is
getting bigger each year. Last year it was expanded to include the Courthouse
Square area where it originated many years ago and this year the volunteers
have added a Christmas Parade that will begin at 5:45. He stated that all
floats in the parade must be lit up with Christmas lights and then even the
walkers in the parade must be donning lights. He stated another new feature of
the events this year will be a Miss Independence beauty pageant for females,
ages 16-21. Mayor Moriconi stated that this year there will be two camels for
the free camel rides at the Senior Center. He encouraged all to attend this
year’s Christmas Walk.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:30 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 5, 2011
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
5, 2011 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Bushong gave an invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters and City Administrator Dan Groth.
Approval of the November 7, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, November 7, 2011. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Miss Independence - Mariah Fisher
Mayor Moriconi introduced and congratulated Mariah Fisher who was recently
crowned as Miss Independence in the City’s first pageant – a new feature of the
Independence Christmas Walk. He stated Miss Fisher is a junior at Calvary
Christian School and the daughter of Tim and Michele Fisher. Mayor Moriconi
stated that Miss Fisher will participate in various City functions throughout
the coming year.
Resolution No. 2011-R-12 – Approving the Transfer of Control of Insight
Communications, Inc. to Time Warner Cable, Inc.
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2011-R-12 that would approve
the transfer of control of Insight communications, Inc. to Time Warner Cable,
Inc. He introduced Dave Millward who serves as the City’s representative on the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky (TBNK). Mr. Millward advised
Council that he has served on the Board for the past eight years and is
currently the Chairman. He advised that Insight has held the cable franchise in
Northern Kentucky since 1997 and the Board has been in the process of
negotiating the contract renewal for the past three years which should be
finalized in the next few days.. He stated that Time Warner Cable announced the
purchase of Insight and since Time Warner is the fourth largest cable company
they have more negotiating power in television programming. He stated that Time
Warner has another franchise agreement in Cincinnati.
Council Member Yeager asked Mr. Millward if he would recommend the City approve
this transfer. He stated he would recommend that Council approve this
transaction and in doing so this would allow a friendly/agreeable transition
from Insight to Time Warner. Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Millward for his
presentation and serving on the Board.
Mayor Moriconi directed Mr. Deters to read Resolution No. 2011-R-12. There
being no further discussion, Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution
No. 2011-R-12, seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered
unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Authorize Revised Interlocal Agreement with Kenton County for Animal Control
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a revised interlocal agreement with Kenton
County for animal control services.
City Administrator, Dan Groth advised Council that the original agreement was
entered into ten years ago. He stated the proposed agreement has two major
revisions. He advised that the rate would stay the same but would be based on
the most current census population and given the City’s population increased in
2010 that will produce a significant increase in the fees the City will pay the
County for this service. The City will go from $22,000 per year to $33,000
which he feels is still a good deal since a vast majority of calls for animal
control service are being provided to Independence. Mr. Groth advised this
increase will be adjusted in next year’s budget. He stated the other revision
in this agreement will be that the City of Covington will be joining in along
with the other seventeen (17) cities.
Council Member Bushong asked how many animal control officers the County has on
staff. Mr. Groth advised the County has a total of four officers with two
officers on each shift. He stated that Covington will be funding a fifth
officer. Mayor Moriconi reported that Independence has twenty-eight percent
(28%) of all calls received by the County’s animal control department. Mr.
Groth stated that Independence had over nine hundred (900) calls last year and
one-third of those calls resulted with the animal being taken in. Council
Member Franzen asked if it would be necessary to amend the City’s current
budget. Mr. Groth stated it would not be necessary since this agreement would
take effect on July 1, 2012.
There being no further discussion, Council Member Bushong moved to approve the
proposed interlocal agreement and authorize the Mayor to sign the agreement,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously;
motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2011-R-13 – Authorize Lease-Purchase Agreement with Huntington
Bank for Police Cruisers
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2011-R-13 that would approve
a lease in the amount of $70,000 with Huntington National Bank to finance the
acquisition of three police cruisers. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2011-R-13.
Council Member Reinersman moved to adopt Resolution No.2011-R-13, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. In a brief discussion wherein Police Chief Butler was
asked the make of vehicles that would be purchased, he advised he would be
obtaining three Dodge Chargers. Roll was called and answered unanimously;
motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Requiring Annexation of Real Estate into City Prior to
being Permitted Access to a City Street – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration a proposed
ordinance that would require annexation prior to being granted access to any
City street or right-of-way. He stated this proposed ordinance is the result of
a request by an owner of real estate in an unincorporated area that abuts
parcels in the Williams Woods subdivision. The owner would like to access
Gatewood Drive. Mr. Deters advised the City has a similar ordinance regarding
sewer tap-ins. Council Member Little commented that even though this proposed
ordinance was prompted by one instance he felt it would be of benefit for the
entire City. Council Member Reinersman asked if the City would be able to
review each request, on a case by case basis, as it pertains to specific issues
and what would be needed to accommodate specific access. Mr. Deters responded
that the specifics would be addressed under the subdivision regulations.
There being no further discussion Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Proclamation – In Recognition of Robert R. Roden
Mayor Moriconi stated he was approached over the weekend by John Stephenson
with a request to present a Proclamation in recognition Robert R. Roden, the
long time band director at Simon Kenton High School. He stated that Mr.
Stephenson advised the high school was setting up a scholarship fund in Mr.
Roden’s honor. Mayor Moriconi read the Proclamation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order 2011-EO-04 - Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Executive
Order appointing himself as the City’s representative on the Northern Kentucky
Area Planning Council with Council Member Donna Yeager as the alternative
representative for 2012.
Cody Road Update – Mayor Moriconi reported that the progress on the Cody Road
improvements was coming along. He stated that some work needs to be done on the
shoulder and the road needs to be striped. He stated the weather has delayed
this work, but the City hopes to have the road re-opened in a couple of weeks.
He said the developer will do the final touch ups, such as seeding and straw
along the roadway, in the Spring. Mayor Moriconi stated this new section of
Cody Road will improve the visibility and provide a safer road.
Wreaths across America – Mayor Moriconi reported that the local Civil Air
Patrol has invited him to speak this Saturday at the Wreaths across America
ceremony which recognizes fallen veterans. He stated the ceremony will be held
at noon at the Independence Cemetery and he urged everyone to attend.
Mayor Moriconi commended the Holy Cross High School football program for
winning the State title in their division. He acknowledged that many
Independence families attend Holy Cross and wanted to extend his
congratulations to all.
Christmas Walk – Mayor Moriconi thanked all volunteers and City staff that
worked on another successful Christmas Walk held this past Saturday evening. He
stated he has received a lot of positive feedback about this year’s event. He
stated a new feature that was extremely popular was the Christmas parade. He
said the good weather conditions brought out a record crowd to this family
friendly event.
Council Member Reinersman stated he wanted to specifically recognize several
people – Nita Brake, Donna Yeager, Jaimie Henson, John Richardson, Doug Garner
and all the Independence Business Association (IBA) members, Dianna & Jude
Kloeker, the Bradford Lodge, Kelly Jet (Christmas lights) and Ciaro Bravo
(Nickelodeon) who was a hit with the kids. He said it was a great crowd this
year.
Mayor Moriconi said the City is always finding ways to improve this event, such
as traffic flow, etc. and will continue to keep this a family event each year.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:35 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2012 Minutes
January 9, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
9, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the December 5, 2011 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, December 5, 2011. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. Council Member Reinersman requested amendments
on page two; with no objections from Council, roll was called and answered
unanimously to adopt the minutes with corrections. Motion carried 6-0.
Recognition of Mr. Jim Berling
Mayor Moriconi stated that last year when Council had decided to permanently
close Cody Road due to the costly repairs needed as a result of a slippage, Mr.
Jim Berling just happened to be at that Council meeting. Mayor Moriconi went on
to say that Mr. Berling offered to assist the City in finding a more affordable
resolution in making the necessary repairs in order to re-open Cody Road. He
said Mr. Berling was able to make the repairs for half the estimated cost and
Cody Road has now been re-opened. Mayor Moriconi stated he has received fifty
to sixty emails from residents who are excited that the road has been re-
opened. He stated he asked Mr. Berling to attend this meeting so that he could
thank him for the reconstruction of Cody Road. He presented Mr. Berling with a
key to the City. The Mayor advised that while the road repairs are complete,
topsoil, seed and straw will be laid in the spring.
Presentation of the Downtown Area Form Based Codes – Part I
Mayor Moriconi advised that the Steering Committee has been meeting for the
past several months working on form based zoning codes as recommended in the
Independence Downtown Study. He stated that this has been a lengthy process for
the committee which has included public hearings to get citizen input. He
stated the committee’s findings and recommendations will be presented to
Council in three parts over the next few months and then go to the Kenton
County Planning Commission in April or May. He stated the information for each
part of the recommendation will be submitted to Council in advance of each
meeting. Mayor Moriconi advised committee members are here to present Part I of
their recommendation but that no action will be necessary tonight. He asked
that they listen to the presentation, ask any questions they may have and then
take the coming month to review the material and then act on the recommendation
at the February meeting.
Rodney Crice, 5105 Wooddale Drive – introduced himself as the Chairman of the
Independence Strategic Action Committee (ISAC). He provided some history on the
Small Area Study which Council approved in July 2007 and how the Committee was
formed to implement parts of the Study. He stated one aspect of the Study was
to create new zones as some of the current zones do not comply with the
recommendation in the Study. He stated in 2009/2010 the Steering Committee was
established to work on the on the zoning update process. Mr. Crice advised they
will present several design recommendations within three new zones – the
Downtown Independence zone, the Gateway mixed use zone, and the subdivision
conservation development single-family zone. He stated the committee has held
monthly meetings since early 2010 as well as public forums to get citizen input
whose comments have been incorporated into the proposal.
Mr. Alex Mattingly, introduced himself as the Vice Chairman of the Zoning
Update Steering Committee. He stated the zoning code update includes land use
recommendations for commercial developments, civic uses and providing open
green space. He stated the proposal develops a social core with specialized
markets in the downtown zone which they tried to balance based on the Study
recommendations and public comments. He stated the zone will establish design
guidelines, setbacks, streetscape and fill in building gaps. Again, he stated
they took comments from the citizens into account when proposing these designs.
Mayor Moriconi advised that the Council Members received a copy of all the
comments collected from the public forum meetings.
Andy Videkovich, senior planner with the NKAPC, addressed Council regarding the
downtown zone and the recommendation for a Design Review Board (DRB). He stated
that several tools were used to accomplish the vision for the downtown zone
which encompasses the area between Independence Station Road and Locust Lane.
This area will have two sub-districts: the Courthouse Square and the Transition
Corridor. He stated this will be a mixed use zone with residential only on top
floors and town houses and row houses allowed in outlying areas. Mr. Videkovich
advised that projected and ground signs will be regulated in the areas as well.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the proposed sign regulations would deviate much from
the City’s current sign regulations. He stated there was no difference.
Mr. Videkovich presented a recommendation for the formation of a Design Review
Board (DRB). He stated that not all development plans will need to go before
the DRB as long as they meet all the regulations for the zone. He suggested
that this would be a five member board that should include knowledgeable
individuals in the field of architecture, engineering and builders. He stated
the board should also include a council member and two at-large members. He
stated the board members should be appointed by the Mayor with Council
approval. Mr. Videkovich advised the board would ensure that designs are being
met with the zone’s intended purpose. He stated that under normal circumstances
the board would take final action, but the applicant could appeal to the City
Council and Circuit Court.
Council Member Franzen expressed some concern with the creation of the Design
Review Board. She stated it seems the City’s Zoning Administrator and/or Board
of Adjustment could oversee the regulations of the new zone. She wondered what
the benefits would be for having a DRB if the standards are set. Mr. Videkovich
stated the zones will have higher design standards and the DRB could be more
assistance with creative solutions and similar to the Board of Adjustment the
DRB would have final action. Council Member Franzen again expressed concern
about creating a whole new board which would probably require an application
fee, enlisting volunteers to serve on the board and the need to keep minutes of
all meetings. Mr. Videkovich advised the duties of the Board of Adjustments is
regulated by Kentucky State law (KRS).
Council Member Bushong asked how the new regulations would affect a current
building if destroyed by fire. Mr. Videkovich responded that as long the exact
same footprint was rebuilt – no expansion – then the new regulations would not
affect the rebuild.
Council Member Reinersman explained that the DRB would be different from the
Board of Adjustments in that they would look at creative options with expertise
in the industry. He stated that there would probably be a fee associated with
an application to this board. Council Member Franzen stated she feared this
would add another level of bureaucracy. Council Member Brinker asked if any
other local cities had a DRB. Mr. Videkovich responded that Covington had a
review board for their historic overlay zone.
Council Member Little stated there are twenty parcels involved in the downtown
area and he asked if the owners were consulted about the proposed land use. Mr.
Videkovich advised there was a general ad for the first public meeting and the
property owners were contacted about the second public meeting. Council Member
Little also asked if a change of zone would be necessary prior to any
development. He expressed some reservations about this and cited some examples
in recent years where the City granted a zone change for a proposed development
without firm commitments and the land has never been developed, so if it is
ever sold again, there will probably be another request for a zone change. . He
stated he would prefer that any zone change be requested by the current owner.
Council Member Little also expressed some concern about the creation of a
Design Review Board and the expenses that will be associated with this board.
Council Member Franzen stated she was also concerned property rights and
designating the land use of some parcels as conservation which could decrease
the owner’s property value. Mr. Videkovich stated they received many public
comments about this. Council Member Reinersman commented that any existing use
will remain so until the property is sold and that any parcels with a proposed
conservation land use are a pro-active direction to work toward the vision for
that area.
Mayor Moriconi commented that he understands that Council wants to take a
cautious approach toward this goal. Council Member Franzen stated she
appreciated the committee’s hard work and consideration put into this proposal.
Mayor Moriconi commented there is a lot of information to review and advised
Council to take their time and ask questions. He stated if they are not ready
in February to act on this that will be okay, but asked that they consider
everything presented. Mr. Videkovich stated they will attend the February
meeting to address any additional comments or questions Council has on Part I.
Mayor Moriconi asked Council to direct any questions to Mr. Groth via email.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-01 – Requiring Annexation of Real Estate into the City
Prior to Being Permitted Access to a City Street – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-01 that
would require the annexation of real estate into the City prior to such real
estate being permitted access to a City street.
Mr. Deters reported that Public Works Director Gary Cooper and the City’s
Building Inspector Kevin Barbian met with a representative of a citizen (Toby
Carpenter) who lives in the unincorporporated area that would like access onto
Gatewood Drive (in the Williams Woods Subdivision). He stated they all agreed
to a road development concept that would provide the City a T-turnaround, which
the City employees indicated they would need in order to provide access onto
Gatewood Drive. Mr. Deters advised he just received a letter today from Mr.
Carpenter’s attorney about finalizing an agreement with the City for this
street easement. Mr. Deters asked the Council if they wanted to postpone the
second reading of this ordinance and move forward with the proposed agreement
by Mr. Carpenter that would not require annexation. Council Members Reinersman
and Yeager indicated they felt it would be in the best interest of the City to
adopt the ordinance that would require annexation into the City prior to
accessing any City street.
Mr. Toby Carpenter stepped up to the podium to address Council about his
request. He stated the City allowed the developer of Williams Woods subdivision
to construct a dead-end street for no apparent reason. He stated that he did
not want to annex into the City.
Council Member Little stated that apart from this particular situation the City
has approximately one hundred similar situations and so this is a City-wide
concern. He stated adopting this ordinance would alleviate further problems in
the future.
Mr. Carpenter commented that property splits are approved by the NKAPC
(Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission). Council Member Brinker advised
that NKAPC is responsible for ridge continuity planning and therefore the City
doesn’t approve or disapprove the placement of street stubs.
Mr. Deters commented that the City would be getting a benefit from having a T-
turnaround as the Public Works department would have a place to push snow.
Mayor Moriconi stated the City is not trying to be difficult but must determine
a solution that would be in the best interest city-wide and not address this
situation based on one location. Council Member Reinersman agreed with the
Mayor and stated the City must protect the City interests as a whole.
Mr. Carpenter said he has subdivided from his property (that faces Maher Road)
two 10-acre parcels at the rear of his land which will front Gatewood Drive.
Mr. Groth asked why he did not want to annex those parcels into the City. Mr.
Carpenter stated he would just pay more taxes with no benefits and therefore
didn’t want to be annexed. Mr. Deters suggested these two parcels would
restrict access to a future, larger development.
Mayor Moriconi asked Council if they wanted to move forward with the second
reading of the Ordinance. Council Member Yeager so moved, with second by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Franzen. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2012-O-01.
Resolution No. 2012-R-01 – Supporting the REINS (Regulations from the Executive
In Need of Scrutiny) H.R. 3765
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-01 that would support
the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 3765)
and would require Congress to affirmatively approve any new major rule (over
$100,000,000) proposed by the executive agencies before it can be enforced on
the American people and requests our State and Federal representatives to
strongly support this Act and actively oppose unfunded mandates in any and
every form.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Reinersman commented he is somewhat
familiar with this Act but does not understand the full impact. He suggested
tabling this Resolution as he would like time to research the issue to get an
idea of the economic impact this will have. Mayor Moriconi had no objection to
tabling this until a later date.
Council Member Franzen moved to table Resolution No. 2012-R-01, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. No roll call; motion carried all ayes.
Resolution No. 2012-R-02 – Supporting State legislation that would Modify KRS
68.197 by proving a mechanism through which the Fiscal Court could make minor
adjustments to the Transportation Payroll License Fee
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-02 that would urge
the Kentucky General Assembly to pass legislation that would modify KRS 68.197
to provide a mechanism through which the Fiscal Court could make minor
adjustments to the Transportation Payroll License Fee as contemplated in the
original statute approved by the voters in 1978. Mr. Deters explained that this
KRS modification would give the Fiscal Court more local control. Mayor Moriconi
advised that in 2005 the State made changes and set limits that did not allow
the fee to keep pace with inflation. Mr. Groth stated that the Transit
Authority of Northern Kentucky (TANK) is running low and needs to have more
control over the fee schedule to provide public transportation services. He
stated that TANK is an important service and this would allow the County to
raise the fees to meet expenses. Council Member Little agreed that this would
allow minor adjustments and give them a mechanism to make up their shortfall.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2012-R-02, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2012-R-02. No roll call;
motion carried with all ayes.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth made a couple of announcements. He stated that Kenton County Attorney
Garry Edmondson would be holding a seminar to discuss neighbor law at 6 p.m.
Thursday, January 19th at the Northern Kentucky Planning Commission Chambers,
located at 2332 Royal Drive in Fort Mitchell. He also advised that the Kentucky
League of Cities would host City Night in Frankfort on Wednesday February 1st.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report, but would request an
Executive Session
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order 2012-EO-01 - Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Executive
Order re-appointing Council Member Reinersman to the OKI Board of Directors.
Presentation of Audit for the year ending June 30, 2011 – Mayor Moriconi
presented to Council the Audit for the year ending June 30, 2011. He requested
the Council Members review the document and direct any questions to Mr. Groth
or the Finance Director Terri Hudson. He advised the auditor commented on the
delinquent Fowler Creek Assessment fees and suggested this assessment be put
back on the annual tax bill. Council Member Little asked what legal recourse
the City had regarding delinquent assessment payments. Mr. Deters advised the
City could file foreclosure on the properties. Mayor Moriconi commented that
the City is collecting more than enough to pay the annual debt on this
assessment. Council Member Reinersman suggested reviewing the financial history
of this assessment. Council Member Franzen stated she did not feel adding this
assessment fee on the tax bill would solve the delinquency issue.
Announcement
Council Member Brinker announced that the Independence Citizen’s Police Academy
Alumni Association would be holding their annual Valentine's Dance on Saturday,
February 4th from 7:00 to midnight in the Undercroft of St. Cecilia Church.
Executive Session
At 8:20 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to go into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 9:00 p.m. Council Member Little moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:01 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 6, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
6, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the January 9, 2012 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, January 9, 2012. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. Council Member Reinersman requested amendments
on page two; with no objections from Council, roll was called and answered
unanimously to adopt the minutes with corrections. Motion carried 6-0.
Approving Application for Zoning Text Amendment – Part I
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that each part of the form based code being
proposed for the Downtown Study area, some of which was presented at last
month’s meeting, will be presented and considered by Council in parts and then
all parts will go to the Kenton County Planning Commission for their
consideration and recommendation back to the City for final approval. He asked
Council for their input regarding the presentation of the subdivision
conservation development zone and the Design Review Board that was presented at
last month’s meeting. He stated they are being presented with three proposed
Resolutions each pertaining to the first part of this project which would
approve applications being made to the Planning Commission for the following:
·   A text amendment to add the DI (Downtown Independence) zone including sign
regulations for the DI zone
·   A map amendment changing an approximate 60-acre area on the east and west
sides of Madison Pike from R-1C, R-1D and NC to a new DI zone
·   A text amendment to add Design Review Board (DRB) regulations and
procedures
A brief discussion ensued. Andy Videkovich, senior planner with the NKAPC,
advised that the intent of three separate resolutions being presented in the
event that Council was in favor of moving forward with certain parts of last
month’s proposal but not all of it. Council Members Franzen and Little
expressed some concerns regarding the DI zone and parcels that would have that
designation. Council Member Reinersman explained that there are actually three
different zones in that area. Council Member Franzen stated certain areas are
covered in Part II of this project and suggested she would prefer to vote on
this along with Part II at the March meeting.
Council Member Franzen moved to table acting on the proposed (3) resolutions
until the March meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. No roll was
called; motion carried with all ayes.
Presentation of the Downtown Historic Survey by David Taylor
Mayor Moriconi introduced David L. Taylor, a Historic Preservation Consultant
of Taylor & Taylor Associates out of Brookville, Pennsylvania who was awarded
the bid to conduct a historic resource survey of the City’s downtown area.
Mr. Taylor presented the City Council with a survey summary report of his
findings. He advised that the survey area included a ten-acre area along
portions of Madison Pike and McCullum Pike. He reported that the National
Register has designated a 50-year age threshold and so the houses prior to 1962
would be considered eligible for historic designation. He stated that each year
more buildings will become eligible as they reach the 50-year threshold. He
advised that he prepared individual survey forms for forty-nine properties in
the area that would be known as the “Independence Courthouse Square Historic
District.” He reported that this area has a mix of residential, commercial and
institutional architecture between the 1880’s to the 1960’s. He reported that
oral history was a part of his research as he had the opportunity to speak with
some of the property owners and that many of the photos he used came from Mr.
Bridges recently published book on the history of Independence. He said these
historic photos are a wonderful road map. Mr. Taylor advised that he looked at
the various properties, the integrity and overall character of the study area
and recommends preparing a nomination to the National Register of Historic
Places for the survey area that would be known as “Independence Square Historic
District.”
Mr. Taylor went on to recommend the City adopt a local ordinance designating
this area as a historic district which will not impose any restrictions on
private property owners’ rights. He advised that one of the benefits of the
historic district designation is the ability to apply for State and Federal tax
credits for the rehabilitation of buildings in the district.
Mr. Groth reminded Council that this historic survey was possible as the City
received funding for this project from AT & T. Mr. Taylor suggested the next
step would be to contact the Kentucky Heritage Council’s National Register
staff to discuss this undertaking and then allocate funding for the nomination
to the National Register. He advised there are statutory requirements and it is
a year long process that includes the preparation of a nomination and holding a
public hearing. In response to a question from a property owner, Mr. Taylor
advised that having this designation will not increase property values, but
would never decrease the value either. Council Member Reinersman commented that
it could incentivize people to rehab their properties. There was a brief
question and answer session with Mr. Taylor. Mayor Moriconi thanked him for his
report and presentation.
Presentation of the Downtown Area Form Based Codes, Part II – Steering
Committee and NKAPC Staff
Mayor Moriconi introduced Rodney Crice, Chairman of the Steering Committee who
would present the concept of the conservation development overlay zone for the
downtown area as Part II of the form based codes project.
Mr. Crice stated that the conservation development single-family (CD-SF)
overlay zone seems to be the most controversial zone but an important component
of the downtown study. He advised the two main issues of this zone is the
density and conservation of the rural area and keeping the small town feel. He
stated this zone does not currently exist in the City. He stated he feels that
the overall vision of the project will be difficult to achieve without it. He
cited various statements from the Downtown Study that recommended the
modification of the local zoning code to include a conservation development
model and the principles of mixed use development. Mr. Crice stated that the
Comprehensive Plan and current zoning regulations help guide development and he
hopes that adopting the proposed form based codes for the downtown area will
achieve the desired results.
Alex Mattingly, Vice Chairman of the Zoning Update Steering Committee reported
that the guiding factor for their committee was addressing the conservation
development overlay zone. He stated a higher density residential area would
support the conservation district subdivision with more green space and also
support nearby commercial land uses. He reported the committee focused on
public comments and found that no one wanted this to be mandatory, so it is
being proposed that the conservation area development be optional. He stated
the committee initially proposed the conservation area be fifty percent but
decreased it to thirty percent with density bonus incentives to the developers.
He said the current zoning has a density penalty. He stated some advantages of
a conservation development is that rights-of-way can account for 10% of the
land area, topography where physical features restrict can result in larger
lots, and the development of other residential amenities such as parks. Mr.
Mattingly said the CD-SF overlay protects the rural character and uses the land
more efficiently. He went on to explain the density calculations and
incentives, such as more permitted lots in the development, for providing open
space. He stated this concept would allow more people to be served thereby
using land more efficiently.
Mr. Mattingly explained the options of ownership and maintenance of the green
space with a detailed management plan that might include City maintenance, a
Homeowners’ Association, donate or sell to the Kenton Conservancy or the
designation of conservation easements which would be part of private platted
lots within the subdivision.
Mr. Mattingly advised the process for the developer would be to submit a Stage
II Development Plan and have the Plan reviewed and approved by the Design
Review Board as well.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the conservation development has been implemented
elsewhere in Kenton County. Mr. Mattingly responded that Kenton County and
Edgewood have adopted the text amendment but no development yet. He went on to
say that many cities have PUD and cluster developments throughout the County.
Council Member Franzen addressed the Hartland Subdivision residents in
attendance that had some concerns about Chateau Court, which is currently a
stub street, being opened as a through street to connect future development on
McCullum Road. He stated an option to consider would be to permanently close
the stub. He explained that the property along McCullum Road is currently zoned
R-1C which would permit the development of a couple hundred single family
houses. He said if the property owners sell to a developer the City would have
no control over a zone that is currently in place. He went on to explain that
if the City adopts the conservation development in that area that it may be
possible that the City would have more control of the development.
Mr. Videkovich advised that stub streets fall under the subdivision regulations
and are intended to allow for another egress so as not to overload main roads
and address safety issues. City Attorney informed Council that ultimately the
City does have authority to close a stub street and he explained the process to
do so. He stated that when a street is permanently closed the sides become the
property of the adjoining properties
Council Member Franzen explained the purpose of the Downtown Study was to
facilitate planned development and not piece meal development of the
residential and commercial in a haphazard manner.
Council Member Brinker expressed some concern with higher density lots and
feels that most people move here looking for larger lots. Council Member
Reinersman commented that the committee was looking at a way to get a
sufficient number of rooftops to support local business, yet keep a rural feel.
Council Member Reinersman explained that the conservation area supports higher
density single family construction such as town homes and patio homes without
large yards. He stated this is a new single family development style that would
be marketed in the mid to high price range.
Council Member Little addressed the various references made to the Small Area
Study during this discussion. He stated he feels the intent may be somewhat
misconstrued as the City felt it was important to plan for future development
by conducting the Study. He went on to say that although the Small Area Study
was adopted by the Council, it must be noted that the Study was adopted as a
whole, but that does not mean every Council Member agreed with all parts of the
Study. He further commented that he does not believe, if a developer is given
the option that a conservation development will ever happen, so therefore, he
doesn’t understand the point of doing this. He stated he sees this as a
hindrance to the developer. He stated he feels the best time to propose a zone
change is when a development plan is being proposed. Council Member Little also
expressed concerns about the maintenance of all the green space and mentioned
the City expense to mow subdivision entrances. In closing, he stated that he
would not support any proposal that would restrict a property owners rights and
reiterated that he did not understand an optional conservation area that
developers would probably not opt for since it would involve more cost and
impose more restrictions on a development. He also commented that every big
business wants to locate in the Towne Center area making the chances of new
development in the downtown area less competitive.
Council Member Reinersman cited other cities were this type of development has
been successful and commented that it’s finding the right businesses for the
downtown area. He stated that while he does not agree with every part of the
concept he likes the idea of laying the groundwork for future development and
feels this plan allows more options for developments.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Videkovich, Mr. Crice and Mr. Mattingly for their
presentation. Council Members urged citizens to provide their input on this
proposal to them via email or phone calls. Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor for
comments from some audience members.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview, Independence – commented that she attended the
committee meetings and public hearings on this issue and heard the suggestions
offered by residents. She stated she lives in the Hartland Subdivision and is
opposed to this proposal. She stated the committee members could not solve all
the concerns the residents put forth.
Robert Dupuy, 5325 Chateau Court, Independence – shared some of his feelings on
the proposal for a conservation area and said he would like it to remain a
historic district. He asked if it would be possible to keep Chateau Court a
stub street. Mr. Deters advised he would check on the legalities of closing the
street.
Margaret Powers, 2919 Westridge Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45238 – commented that
the property owners on McCullum Road have rights and if they decide to sell
their land to a developer she does not feel it is fair that they have to keep a
large portion of it as green space. She also expressed concern that their
property could be devalued if Chateau Court was permanently closed off
preventing access to future development on McCullum Road.
Don Nienaber, 66 McCullum Road – stated he had attended all the committee
meetings on this project and voiced his opposition to it.
Mayor Moriconi advised further discussion on this proposal would resume at the
next meeting.
Resolution No. 2012-R-03 – Supporting NKAPC Staff’s Draft Subdivisions
Regulations with Modifications
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-03, a resolution
supporting the NKAPC staff’s draft subdivisions regulations with modifications
presented by the committee of the Kenton County Mayor’s Group. Mayor Moriconi
advised the Council that the proposed updates have stronger construction
standards for streets. He stated that if the proposed regulations are adopted
by the Kenton County Planning Commission they will automatically go into effect
and will not come back to the City for further review or approval. He stated
that under current standards for street construction, the concrete streets have
been failing earlier than the expected lifetime. Mayor Moriconi advised the
Mayor’s Group has been very involved in this effort to get the subdivision
regulations modified.
Council Member Yeager moved to adopt Resolution No. 2012-R-03, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2012-R-04 – Supporting Land & Water Conservation Fund Grant to
Develop Recreational Resources
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-04, a resolution
supporting the application to the Department for Local Government for
assistance under the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 for a fifty
percent matching grant to develop recreational resources.
Mr. Groth advised the City applied for this grant last year but was not
successful in being awarded the grant. He reminded Council that if the grant is
awarded to the City the funds will be used to terrace the hillside of the
Memorial Park Amphitheater. He said this project would be user and handicap
friendly and make the concerts and events at the Amphitheater more enjoyable
for the community. He said the project estimate is $102,000 and the City would
hopefully receive half of that amount. Mr. Groth stated this will be the third
time the City has applied for this particular grant. Council Member Yeager
commented that the City’s portion of the project can be provided in in-kind
services.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2012-R-04, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Lawn Maintenance Contract
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the City’s current lawn maintenance with
Malco Services will expire on June 30, 2012. He stated that Council can exert
their option to extend the contract for the next two-year period beginning July
1, 2012 through June 30, 2014 at the rates noted.
Council Member Bushong moved to renew the contract with Malco Services at the
rates set forth in Malco’s March 22, 2010 bid proposal for the period of July
1, 2012 through June 30, 2014. Motion seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2012-R-05 – Supporting the REINS Act (Regulations from the
Executive in Need of Scrutiny) H.R. 3765
Mayor Moriconi re-introduced a Resolution that was postponed at the January 9,
2012 meeting so that the Council would have more time to review H.R. 3765.
Mayor Moriconi advised the REINS Act needs support from cities in requesting
our State and Federal representatives to actively oppose unfunded mandates many
of which have negative impacts on local government.
Council Member Reinersman stated he had asked this to be postponed last month
as he had concerns on how new major rules and regulations would impact us.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Resolution No. 2012-R-05, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one
abstention cast by Council Member Reinersman.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported the City had requested the State to install a stop sign at
the intersection of Fowler Creek Road and Oliver Road. He stated the State
conducted a traffic study and found that the requirements for a stop sign
cannot be justified at this time.
Mr. Groth’s other announcements included:
·   Thirty more boxes have been shipped to the Kentucky National Guard, 1204
Aviation Group, which brings the total to 100 boxes.
·   The City’s Zoning and Building Inspectors will have a booth at the annual
Home and Garden Show this weekend.
·   The new community fitness programs being held at the Senior Center have
been very successful.
·   City Officials Academy will be held in Louisville April 26-27, 2012
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report, but requested an
Executive Session.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Executive Order 2012-EO-02 - Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Executive
Order re-appointing Bill Aseree to the Board of Ethics/Code Enforcement Board.
Mayor Moriconi announced the recent addition of some programs/services such as
Passport Acceptance Agency, fitness programs and Breakfast with Santa have
brought in several thousand dollars in revenue for the City
Mayor Moriconi also thanked everyone involved with the reconstruction of Cody
Road – Jim Berling, Realtor Mike Parker and the adjoining property owner that
provided the portion of land needed to relocate this section of roadway.
Executive Session
At 9:11 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to take a five minute recess,
followed by an executive session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to
discuss possible/pending litigation. The motion was seconded by Council Member
Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 9:50 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:51 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 5, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 5,
2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and asked for a moment of
silence in remembrance for the victims of the tornado disaster that struck the
region on Friday, March 2, 2012. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris
Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Council Member Jim Bushong was absent. Also
present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Mayor Moriconi welcomed Boy Scout Troop Number 8 from St. Cecilia School who
were attending the meeting to earn their merit badges for communication and
citizenship in the community.
Approval of the February 6, 2012 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, February 6, 2012. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. Council Member Reinersman requested amendments
on page three; with no objections from Council, roll was called and answered
unanimously to adopt the minutes with corrections. Motion carried 5-0.
Presentation of Award for Outstanding Investigation – Rob Sanders, Commonwealth
Attorney
Kenton County Commonwealth Attorney Rob Sanders was present to present the
Award for Outstanding Investigation to Detective Jim Moore. But, he first
congratulated and thanked the City for the leadership role they assumed in
spearheading the relief efforts for the victims of the tornado/bad weather that
hit the Piner area on Friday evening.
Mr. Sanders went on to present an award for outstanding investigative work to
Independence Detective Jim Moore. Mr. Sanders stated that Detective Moore’s
work on the State versus Richard Noah case went above and beyond the call of
duty. He stated this was a high profile case where Richard Noah, who was a
firefighter for the Independence Fire District, had plotted to murder his wife.
He stated that Detective Moore’s outstanding skills, work ethic and
communication provided invaluable assistance to his office in prosecuting Mr.
Noah.
Tornado Relief
Mayor Moriconi thanked everyone who participated in the tornado relief effort
this past weekend. He stated that good comes out of tragedy and how amazing it
was to see various members of the community come together to help the
neighboring community of Piner. He acknowledged the members of the Independence
Business Association who started the effort shortly after hearing of the
tornado damage on Friday night. Mayor Moriconi stated there were so many people
to thank, but particularly wanted to acknowledge Wiseway for donating the use
of a truck to transport the donations to Piner Baptist Church on Saturday,
Snappy Tomato and LaRosa’s for donating pizza to feed the volunteers, Mark
Kiser of Quik Copy, St. Cecilia and Independence Christian churches and City
employees. He advised offers of assistance are still come in. Council Member
Franzen advised that due to the overwhelming response the Independence
Christian Church is taking the overflow of donated items as Piner Baptist
Church has run out of storage space. Council Member Reinersman stated that cash
donations are needed and that the Bank of Kentucky has a number of accounts
that have been opened for donations.
Proclamation – Brain Injury Awareness Month
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation declaring March 14, 2012 as Brain
Injury Awareness Day.
Presentation of the Downtown Area Form Based Codes, Part II – Steering
Committee and NKAPC Staff
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that this would be the final phase of the three
presentations by the Steering Committee on the downtown area form based codes
proposal. He stated that the specific presentation tonight will be on the
Gateway mixed zone area along McCullum Pike and SR17.
Andy Videkovich, senior planner with the NKAPC, addressed Council with a recap
of the Conservation subdivision zone that was discussed at the February
meeting. He addressed some concerns that Council expressed at the last meeting.
He stated that the purpose of this proposal was born out of the Small Area
Study conducted by the City in 2007 and then adopted into the City’s
Comprehensive Plan. He advised that this document is referred to when
development plans are submitted and are reviewed for consistency with the Plan.
He stated that developers have a difficult time if no tools are in place that
is consistent with the Study. Mr. Videkovich also stated that the proposed
codes will provide options to developers and that offering options should not
be considered a deterrent to a developer. He stated that developers would not
have to consider the form based codes. In closing, he commented that Chateau
Court in the Hartland Subdivision is a separate issue from these form based
code updates and zoning in general.
John Richardson, Chairman of the Steering Committee, presented the
recommendations on the area known as the Gateway Mixed Use zone. He advised
that this is the first development that would be seen on the new section of
SR17 as you enter the City. He stated the committee reviewed the Downtown Study
recommendations that were followed to create the guidelines for this
development area. He stated this is the gateway to the historic downtown area.
He said the committee is recommending the zoning code be modified in this area.
Mr. Richardson also shared some positive comments the committee received at the
two public forum meetings that were held as part of this process.
Mr. Videkovich stated that the purpose of the Gateway area is to promote
development aimed on a pedestrian scale which provides for a mixture of land
uses. He stated the zone permits high density residential or multi-family
apartments. Also allowed would be office, retail service, public and civic
uses. He stated that drive through lanes would be permitted but limited to
three lanes.
Mr. Videkovich the Gateway zone would provide development standards that would
include five acre minimums, fifty foot setbacks, maximum of two-story height
and a 15,000 square foot maximum footprint. Also, in order to decrease the
amount of constructed impervious areas, it is being recommended that off street
parking must be shared or cooperative. Mr. Videkovich stated that every
development within the Gateway zone should provide at least two major public
amenities such as a playground, pocket park, plaza, water feature, etc. He
stated the Design Review Board should allow for flexibility for individuality
and creativity.
At this time, Mayor Moriconi opened the discussion to Council for any questions
they have on the proposal. He also asked Mr. Groth if all the map and zone
change recommendations would be sent to the Planning Commission as a whole. Mr.
Groth advised that after a decision is made by Council regarding the Gateway
Mixed Use zone then all phases of the proposal approved by Council would be
presented as a whole to the Planning Commission who would make a recommendation
for approval or disapproval to the Council.
Mayor Moriconi asked Council if they had any questions/concerns on the map
amendment proposal to change an approximate 60-acre area along Madison Pike in
the Downtown Independence zone. Council Member Reinersman distributed a list of
current and proposed permitted uses in the Downtown Zone. He stated the
proposed zone would allow for twenty more uses. A brief discussion ensued about
the permitted uses and possibly allowing service stations as a permitted use.
Council Members Franzen and Yeager agreed that service stations should remain
as a conditional use.
Resolution No. 2012-R-06 – Approving Application for a Zoning Map Amendment to
Change an Approximate 60-Acre Area on the East and West Sides of Madison Pike
from R-1C, R-1D and NC to the DI (Downtown Independence) Zone
Council Member Reinersman moved to approve Resolution No. 2012-R-06, seconded
by Council Member Franzen.
A discussion ensued. Council Member Little stated he was concerned that the
Small Area Study is being interpreted very different; he doesn’t feel the
intent is what has been proposed by the Steering Committee. He stated the
intent of the Small Area Study is to provide some direction and doesn’t feel it
is appropriate to put the cart before the horse. He stated that in general he
doesn’t feel this is needed at this time and only imposes more control and
bureaucracy and will ultimately hinder development. He stated he feels that the
kind of development proposal being presented will never happen, especially in
this current economy, and also feels a development plan should be presented by
a developer before considering a zone change. He commented that it is obvious
to him that adhering to the text and map changes will cost developers more to
develop in this area. Council Member Little went on to say that the citizens
feel that the zoning is being changed against their wishes. He stated property
owners have the right to say what they want on their property.
Council Member Brinker commented that the developers will not be forced to
comply since the proposed changes will be voluntary.
Council Member Reinersman responded to Council Member Little’s concerns. He
stated that he disagreed that development would be hindered especially in the
Downtown Independence zone. He stated the purpose of the proposed guidelines
would be to preserve the downtown area so as not to adversely impact the goal
of revitalization. He went on to say that he believes it will happen – if
everyone feels the area is dead then let it die – but he was of the
understanding that Council had a vision for this area. He stated that current
zoning leaves it open for a hodge-podge of development. He stated he
appreciates Council Member Little’s concerns but feels the City needs to lay
some groundwork for future development of the downtown area.
Council Member Franzen commented that a valid point to make is that the
proposal does allow for more uses than in the current NC (neighborhood
commercial) zone. She stated that while she has some concerns with other parts
of the overall proposal, she does not have any concerns with this part. She
stated she agrees that the City needs to decide whether to move forward with
future planning or just let the planning be willy-nilly.
Council Member Little responded that he feels zoning is currently in place and
the bottom line should be that property owners need to have some say on a zone
change for their property.
Council Member Reinersman replied that current zoning in the downtown area does
not permit residential apartments above the businesses, but this would be
allowed in the proposed Downtown Independence zone. He expressed concern that
the downtown area is not thriving as there is not enough people in the area on
a regular basis. He went on to say that he agrees that the Downtown Study is
subject to interpretation but the City needs to decide how they want to proceed
with guiding future development. Council Member Yeager advised that the Council
members did not agree with all aspects of the Study. Council Member Reinersman
commented that Council needs to find a way to do something with the Study.
Council Member Brinker wondered what could be done without stepping on the
rights of the property owners in the area. He stated he would prefer to offer
incentives to developers rather than mandates – a different approach that could
provide the same end result.
Council Member Reinersman advised the proposal has broad parameters on design
guidelines and provides more uses and leaves more options than the NC zone. He
feels the City needs to do something to guide future development.
In closing, Council Member Franzen stated that this is just a first step and
nothing is being changed by approving the Resolution to make an application
with the Planning Commission.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with three ayes
and two no votes cast by Council Members Little and Yeager.
Resolution No. 2012-R-07 – Approving an Application for a Zoning Text Amendment
to Add the DI (Downtown Independence) Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-07, a resolution
supporting the application of a text amendment to the official zoning ordinance
of the City to add the DI (Downtown Independence) zone, specific sign
regulations for the DI zone to Article XIV, and the necessary cross-reference.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Resolution No. 2012-O-07, seconded by
Council Member Reinersman. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered with four ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member Little. Motion
carried 4-1.
Resolution No. 2012-R-08 – Approving an Application for a Zoning Text Amendment
to Add a Design Review Board (DRB) Regulations & Procedures
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-08, a resolution
supporting the application of a text amendment to the official zoning ordinance
of the City to add Design Review Board (DRB) regulations and procedures to
Article XVI and the necessary cross references.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to approve Resolution No. 2012-R-08. A brief discussion ensued. Council
Member stated she is not really in favor of establishing a Design Review Board
as she feels this Board will incur expenses similar to the Board of Adjustment.
She stated she would prefer that any requested changes be presented to the
Council for review instead of a Board.
Council Member Reinersman commented that while he is not opposed to having this
Board he does have some mixed feelings. He suggested that if this Board was not
established perhaps there could be some form of a trigger chart that would
determine who would review the request for a change, i.e. zoning or building
inspector or Council. There was a brief discussion on making a modification to
the establishment of a Board.
When the discussion ended, the roll was called on the motion and was answered
with one aye and four no votes cast by Council Members Brinker, Franzen, Little
and Yeager. Motion was defeated and Resolution No. 2012-R-07 was not approved.
Resolution No. 2012-R-09 & Resolution No. 2012-R-10 – Approving Applications
for Zoning Text and Map Amendments Relating to Adding the Conservation
Development-Single-Family (CD-SF) Overlay Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-09, a resolution
supporting the application of a text amendment to the official zoning ordinance
of the City to add the CD-SF (Conservation Development-Single Family) overlay
zone and the necessary cross-references as needed.
Council Member Franzen reported that she and Council Member Reinersman recently
met with some of the residents of Hartland Subdivision to discuss the
conservation district and address their concerns. She stated she would like to
postpone any discussion and action on this topic until Council Member Bushong
is here next month.
Council Member Franzen moved to table discussion and action on Resolution
Numbers 2012-R-09 & 2012-R-10 until the April meeting, seconded by Council
Member Reinersman. Roll was called and answered unanimously; motion carried 5-
0.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing Collection Process and Procedure for
Delinquent Fowler Creek Sewer Assessments – 1st Reading
Mayor presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would establish a
collection process and procedure for delinquent Fowler Creek sewer assessments,
including any interest, penalties and attorney fees and providing for the
discontinuing of water service until delinquent sewer assessments are paid in
full. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth advised Council that he would recommend that the City declare as
surplus property a 2000 Ford Dump Truck including the tailgate spreader used
for snow removal.
Council Member Little moved to declare the 2000 Ford Dump Truck as surplus
property seconded by Council Member Reinersman. No roll call; motion carried
with all ayes.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi stated he did not have anything to report.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Little moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:27 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 2, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 2,
2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Council
Member Mike Little was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the March 5, 2012 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, March 5, 2012. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Brinker. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Presentation – by Dr. John Stephenson
Mayor Moriconi introduced Dr. John Stephenson who announced that he was working
on a documentary of the Piner Tornado Relief. He explained the process of
obtaining information and conducting interviews with the victims and those who
actively volunteered in the relief and cleanup after the disaster that hit the
region on March 2, 2012. He thanked the City for all the efforts and assistance
given to Piner and its residents.
Proclamation – National Library Week
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation declaring the week of April 8 – April
14, 2012 as National Library Week.
Resolution No. 2012-R-09 – Approving Application for a Zoning Text Amendment to
Add the CD-SF (Conservation Development – Single Family) Overlay Zone and Cross
References as Needed
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-09, a resolution
supporting the application of a text amendment to the official zoning ordinance
of the City to add the CD-SF (Conservation Development – Single Family) overlay
zone and the necessary cross-references as needed.
Council Member Reinersman made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2012-R-09,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member
Reinersman explained that the overlay zone would be optional to developers. He
stated this was an idea that came out of the Downtown Small Area Study in 2007.
He stated this is actually less restrictive than the zoning that is currently
in place and it will protect the rural feel of the community. He went on to say
that public input was obtained, considered and effected into the final draft of
this proposed text amendment. He stated that developers will be given bonuses
for higher density development plans that would result in more unaffected green
space. Council Member Reinersman commented that he feels these are positive
changes that will provide more land uses and fewer streets that will be an
environmental advantage with less stormwater runoff from those streets. Council
Member Franzen commented that the conservation overlay will require every stage
of development to be approved by the Council and gives the current property
owners more land uses for potential sale of the land to developers.
Andy Videkovich, senior planner with the NKAPC, advised that the proposed text
and map amendments would go before the Kenton County Planning Commission in
July or August for the public hearing and then a recommendation for approval or
disapproval to the City. Council Member Franzen commented that final action for
these text and map amendments would be adopted by Council in the form of an
ordinance.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with all ayes.
Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2012-R-10 – Approving Application for a Zoning Map Amendment to
Change an Approximate 116-Acre Area located on the North & South Sides of
McCullum Pike from R-1C, R-1D and NC to R-1C (CD-SF), R-1D (CD-SF) and NC (CD-
SF)
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-10, a resolution
supporting the application of a map amendment to the official zoning ordinance
of the City to change an approximate 116-acre area located on the north and
south sides of McCullum Pike from R-1C, R-1D and NC to R-1C (CD-SF), R-1D (CD-
SF) and NC (CD-SF).
Council Member Reinersman made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2012-R-10,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Videkovich
was asked if the Planning Commission could make changes to this proposal. He
stated that they could recommend changes but the City would not be required to
make the changes they recommend. Mr. Deters advised Council that as long as the
changes Council made were minor then it would not be necessary to resubmit to
the Planning Commission for another review and public hearing.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered with all ayes.
Motion carried 5-0.
Council Member Franzen commented that the proposal for a Design Review Board
was scratched and an alternative review plan will be implemented. Council
Member Reinersman stated that the zoning text was revised and the Review Board
language was removed.
Mayor Moriconi stated the GMU (Gateway Mixed Use) zone has been tabled as a
resident has proposed some ideas that will be incorporated at a later date. He
stated he did not want to hold up the other text and map amendment applications
so they will be forwarded to the Planning Commission without the GMU portion of
the plan.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-02 – Establishing Collection Process & Procedure for
Delinquent Fowler Creek Sewer Assessments – 2nd Reading
Mayor presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-02, an
ordinance that would establish a collection process and procedure for
delinquent Fowler Creek sewer assessments, including any interest, penalties
and attorney fees and providing for the discontinuing of water service until
delinquent sewer assessments are paid in full. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No.
2012-O-02 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to approve Ordinance No. 2012-O-02. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth advised the City accepted bids on March 28, 2012 for the 2000 Ford F-
350 dump truck that was declared as surplus property at the last Council
meeting. He stated the high bid was for $6,025 from Jerry Mardis.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to award the bid to Jerry Mardis in the amount of $6,025. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported there has been $4,000 in property damage at the
restrooms in Staggs Park due to vandalism and the Shadybrook Park playground
equipment has been damaged by graffiti. He stated that if this kind of
destruction continues at the City parks that he would consider closing the
parks at 6:00 p.m. He stated it is frustrating to spend this kind of money to
repair/replace items being vandalized. A brief discussion ensued. Council
Member Reinersman suggest a public awareness program to incentivize residents
to report vandalism. Council Member Brinker expressed some concern about
closing the parks and would like the City to explore other options before doing
that.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:34 p.m.
                  __________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 7, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 7,
2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the April 2, 2012 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, April 2, 2012. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstain from Council Member Little.
Award Bid for Curbside Collection of Solid Waste
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the results of the bids received on March
16, 2012 for the curbside collection of trash and recycling. Bids were received
from Bestway Disposal, Rumpke, Republic Services, Bavarian and Forest Green.
Mayor Moriconi advised that Dan Groth, who has years of experience as a solid
waste coordinator has analyzed the bids. Mr. Groth stated he is recommending
that Council accept the bid from Rumpke for once per week trash collection and
once per week recycling collection which would be billed directly to the
homeowner. He stated the cost for the first two years will be $11.47 per month
with no gas fuel surcharge which is less than the current monthly charge the
residents are paying. Mayor Moriconi directed everyone’s attention to the
sample trash and recycling cans that the residents will be provided free of
charge from Rumpke. Rumpke representative Brett Gaspard advised that the larger
recycling bin on display will require a $1 per month additional charge and the
smaller red recycling bins will be provided free of charge. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the proposed bid from Rumpke indicates that it will be 2016 before
arriving at the contracted monthly charge currently being paid by the
residents. Mr. Groth stated that the large brown trash cans come in two sizes –
65 and 95 gallon. He advised Council that under the current contract with
Rumpke the residents opt for curbside recycling on a subscription basis and pay
$4.25 per month for this service. He also stated that under the new contract
the residents would not pay a fuel surcharge.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to a representative from Bestway Disposal who
stated they were a full service company headquartered in Indianapolis and
looking to expand their services to the Northern Kentucky/Cincinnati areas. She
stated they recently purchased fourteen acres in Burlington for a future
facility. In the meantime they have contracted with Bavarian to dump in their
landfill until they get their facility up and running. She said they also offer
recycling.
Council Member Bushong commented that providing the residents with a recycling
bin will encourage more people to participate in recycling.
Mr. Gaspard advised that under the bid proposal submitted by Rumpke all
residents will be provided new trash bins. He stated approximately 800
residents already lease a bin, but everyone will have to have a Rumpke bin so
the truck can pick it up. In response to the Mayor’s question about recycling
the residents old garbage cans, Mr. Gaspard advised that the cans are not
recyclable and suggest the residents may have other uses for them around their
house.
There was a brief discussion regarding items not placed in the trash bins. Mr.
Gaspard stated that Rumpke would request that residents call them in advance
for large item pickup. He stated there would be a $10 charge for large items,
but there would not be a limit as long as it fit into the truck.
Mr. Gaspard stated he would work with Mr. Groth to draft a mailer to the
residents to explain the specifics of a new contract. He said this could also
be put in the City’s newsletter. He said that all items will need to be placed
in the cans/bins for pick up and he acknowledged that there will be a learning
curve for the residents. Mr. Gaspard stated that the recycling trucks will not
use an automated arm. Mayor Moriconi advised the new contract would be
effective July 1.
There being no further discussion, Council Member Bushong moved to accept the
bid from Rumpke for one time per week trash pickup and one time per week
recycling billed directly to the property owner for $11.47/month for the term
of July 1, 2012 through June 30, 2014 and to authorize the Mayor to sign the
contract. Council Member Franzen seconded the motion. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Amended 2011/12 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend the 2011-2012 budget. He commented that the major amendment in this
budget was for the expenses related to the Cody Road improvements. There being
no questions by Council, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2012/2013 Fiscal Year Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt a budget for the 2012/2013 fiscal year. In his budget address
Mayor Moriconi stated he is presenting a balanced budget without transferring
money from the reserve fund. He stated the City would not realize an increase
in the Municipal Road Aid for 2012/2013, but it would definitely increase next
year which is a direct result in the City’s population increase over the past
decade. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Employee Pay and Classification Plan – 1st
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will
adopt an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2012/2013 fiscal year.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Award Bid for Ashgrove & Alpine Roadway Improvements
Mr. Groth reported that the City opened bids on May 3, 2012 for the road
improvements for Ashgrove and Alpine streets. He stated that bids were received
from the following: Len Riegler Blacktop, Easton Asphalt, TMS Construction, and
Paul Michels Sons. He stated he is recommending that Council award the bid to
the lowest bidder, Len Riegler Blacktop, in the amount of $221,585.00. He
stated that this company has done work previously for the City and is in good
standing.
Council Member Franzen moved to award the bid for roadway improvements to
Ashgrove and Alpine streets to Len Riegler Blacktop in the amount of
$221,585.00, seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Roll was called and
answered unanimously; motion carried 6-0.
Mr. Groth stated the work should be started on this project around mid-July.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the public works employees are currently tearing
out 900 feet of asphalt on Wedgewood Drive. He also reported that a section of
Cody Road has been repaved and looks great.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported the Recreation Department’s new fitness programs are
increasingly popular with the addition of new classes being offered and a new
summer schedule set to begin soon.
Mr. Groth also announced the annual Memorial Day parade will be held on Monday,
May 28th and begin at 10:30 a.m.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi reported that donations for the annual fireworks display during
the July 4th Celebration have been coming in thanks to Council Member Yeager,
Recreation and Police Departments. He stated their goal this year is $25,000 in
donations and that the City appreciates the support of the local business
community in this endeavor. Mayor Moriconi stated that July 4th is on a
Wednesday this year and the event will take place on Friday and Saturday, July
6th & 7th.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:31 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 4, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 4,
2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the May 7, 2012 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, May 7, 2012. Council Member Little so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-03 – Adopting an Amended 2011/12 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-03, an
ordinance that would amend the 2011-2012 budget. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No.
2012-O-03. Mayor Moriconi advised the major amendment in the budget was for the
reconstruction of Cody Road.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-03, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-04– Adopting the 2012/2013 Fiscal Year Budget – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt the budget for the 2012/2013 fiscal year. City Attorney, Mr.
Deters gave Ordinance No. 2012-O-04 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-04. Mayor Moriconi commented that this
budget has no frills and was balanced without tapping into the reserve account.
He stated that the allocation from the State for the Municipal Road Aid was not
what he had hoped it would be, but feels confident that this revenue source,
which is based on census figures, will increase next year since the City’s
population has increased significantly since the 2000 census. He thanked the
staff for keeping the expenses down and the work they put into preparing this
budget.
There being no discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0 to adopt the 2012/2013 budget as presented.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-05 – Adopting an Employee Pay and Classification Plan –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-05- that
will adopt an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2012/2013 fiscal
year. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-05 enacting a personnel and pay
classification plan for City employees. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property – Police Cruisers
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a list of seven City vehicles that need to
be declared as surplus property for purposes of disposal by way of the annual
auction held by Kenton County. He stated there are six Ford Crown Vic and one
2003 Chevrolet Impala – all between 7-12 years of age.
Council Member Bushong moved to declare the vehicles presented as surplus
property and authorize the sale of the vehicles at the Kenton County auction.
Council Member Reinersman seconded the motion. There being no discussion, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2012-R-13 – Approving Application to KCPC for a Text Amendment
Relating to Parking and Storing of Trailers, Mobile Homes, Campers, Etc.
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a resolution that would seek a zoning text
amendment to add additional language to Section 9.23 which regulates the
parking or storing of trailers, mobile homes, campers, inoperable vehicles and
other such equipment. He advised that under Section 9.23, C(1) would add the
words “or owner” of the residence to store the equipment on the property. Mr.
Deters advised that approving this resolution would authorize the application
to the Planning Commission to get their recommendation on whether to approve or
disapprove this text change.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Little to approve Resolution No. 2012-R-13. A discussion ensued.
Council Member Little advised that when this Section was last amended the words
“or owner” was omitted as there was some concern that an owner would store
multiple recreational type vehicles, so it was limited to only allow one
vehicle. He stated that inserting “or owner” will make this section more clear.
Council Member Franzen expressed concerns that if this is allowed on properties
that are not owner-occupied that the City will start seeing an influx of rental
properties storing recreational vehicles of friends and relatives that live in
other cities. She stated this is worrisome, especially in these economic times
with so many properties being rented. Mr. Deters commented that this concern is
addressed in paragraph C(2) of Section 9.23 as this section limits only one
vehicle to be stored outside of an enclosed building on any lot. Council Member
Reinersman agreed this could be an issue.
Mayor Moriconi yielded the floor to Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence –
who asked which Council Member was proposing the text amendment. Council Member
Yeager stated she suggested this amendment be presented to the Council for
consideration. Mrs. Cook stated that in 2009-2010 these regulations were mulled
over by a group that included elected officials. She stated that she sees the
main issue to be lack of enforcement by the City and doesn’t understand why the
City would spend additional funds to make more changes that would not be
enforced. She went on to point out a particular resident that has not been
cited for a recreational vehicle violation for the past eight years and
suggested they should be cited to court if they refuse to come into compliance.
Council Member Franzen stated that 99% of the violators come into compliance
when given notice by the City.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Court, Independence – complained about the campers,
boats, etc. stored on so many properties that are covered, without valid
licenses and are in deteriorating conditions. She stated she has reported many
of these to the City and nothing has been done.
Council Member Brinker expressed concern that the City did not have a “next
step” to get violation compliance. Mrs. Wuestefeld, Zoning Administrator,
advised that the City is on a complaint basis with regard to issuing violation
notices and that there is a process in place for non-compliant property owners.
The City can issue citations and take them to court.
There being no further discussion, roll was called on the motion to approve
Resolution No. 2012-R-13, and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by
Council Members Reinersman and Franzen. Motion carried 4-2
Resolution No. 2012-R-14 – Approving the MRA Co-Op Agreement for Fiscal Year
Beginning July 1, 2012
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-14 that would approve
and authorize him to enter into the Municipal Aid Co-Op Program contract with
the State Transportation Cabinet for the 2012-2013 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2012-R-14. Mr. Groth advised that by entering into the
cooperative agreement the City contributes 3% of the municipal aid funding to
the State’s emergency fund. He stated that in the past few years the City has
received $375,000 from the emergency fund while only contributing about $5,500
per year. The three major projects that benefited from the emergency fund were
the Crowe Road Bridge, Marshall Road and Cody Road. Mr. Groth thanked the
Public Works Director Gary Cooper for initiating the City’s involvement in this
program. Mayor Moriconi commented that this program has been a life saver for
the City on some of the road reconstruction projects.
Council Member Reinersman moved to adopt Resolution No. 2012-R-14, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. There being no discussion roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Award Bid for the Reconstruction of Wayman Drive – Mr. Groth reported that on
May 31st at 11:00 a.m. bids were opened for the Wayman Drive Resurfacing
project. He stated that the City received five (5) bids which ranged from a low
bid of $41,641.50 to a high bid of $67,601.25. He stated that after reviewing
the bids, he is recommending that the bid be awarded to Len Riegler Blacktop in
the amount of $41,641.50.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to award the bid to Len Riegler Blacktop in the amount of $41,641.50.
Mr. Groth advised that the City Engineer’s cost estimate was $59,672.50 and
since the low bid was so low, the bid figures were double checked. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Amphitheater Events – Mr. Groth announced the various amphitheater events
taking place over the next couple months.
Resolution No. 2012-R-15 – Authorizing the Financing of Police Vehicles with
Huntington Bank
Mr. Groth presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-15 that would authorize
the financing of the new police vehicles with Huntington Bank. He stated the
principal amount would be $120,000 with an interest rate of 2.75%.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to approve Resolution No. 2012-R-15. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi recognized the Police Department for the recent audit conducted
by the Department of Criminal Justice which found the department to be in
compliance.
Leasing of the Lower Level of the Municipal Center – Mayor Moriconi advised
Council that the City has been approached by the Kentucky State Police with a
proposal to lease space in the lower level of the Administration side of the
Municipal Center. He stated the State Police would use the space to conduct
driver testing and take driver i.d. photos. He stated the space would be leased
for roughly $2000 per month. He stated that over the last several months that
he and Mr. Groth have been meeting with the State representatives to discuss
the possibility, but he cannot sign the lease without Council approval.
Council Member Bushong asserted that he was against leasing any part of the
building to anyone. He stated a lot of time was spent on the design of the
building, with the objective being for the City to be able to grow in the
space. He stated he feels if we lease the space then in the future we may find
that we have to lease space for our own employees. Mayor Moriconi advised it
would not be forever and that the lease would be in one year increments. He
stated he would not want to lock the City into a long term lease. Mr. Groth
commented that any future growth the City may have would be in Public Works or
the Police Department, not Administration.
Council Member Reinersman asked John Middleton if they would want to lease for
ten years or more. John Middleton, Circuit Court Clerk, addressed Council by
stating that he has some office space in the Independence Courthouse and that
the State Police currently rent space on Stephenson Road. He stated the growth
in Kenton County is in Independence and he would like to have office space here
for the long term, whether it is here or elsewhere. Council Member Franzen
asked if he would move his offices out of the Courthouse and into here. He
responded that the primary purpose of his office is the court services. But his
office also issues the drivers licenses and he would like to keep his staff
members at the same location as the State drivers testing so that it is more
convenient for the people. Mr. Groth commented that there would be a total of
seven people in the leased space – five State employees and two employees from
the County Circuit Court Clerk’s office.
Council Member Brinker asked how much increased traffic would be coming through
the Municipal Center if the space was leased. Mr. Groth stated that
approximately 250 cars per week.
Council Member Yeager stated that she was against leasing the lower level and
wanted all the City employees in one building. Mr. Brinker asked when the lease
term would begin. Mayor Moriconi stated it would begin in September/October of
this year. Mr. Middleton advised the current lease on Stephenson Road is
through June or July.
Council Member Little stated he shares Council Member Bushong’s sentiments. He
stated the Municipal Center was built larger enough to allow future expansion
of the City offices. He stated that by leasing the space it would displace City
employees currently working in the lower level, alterations to the building
would be needed to accommodate the lessee, the building would incur more wear
and tear with the additional traffic and he feels it would be difficult to
regain the space in the future. He stated the additional revenue would be nice,
but feels it is not worth the trade off. He stated that moving City employees
to another building defeats the purpose of why this building was built in the
first place.
Council Member Reinersman commented that he is in favor of leasing the space
and the lease amount is a fair rental rate and from an investment point of view
it is a good deal. He stated that at the end of the lease period the landlord
(City) would have the option to not renew. He stated he feels the City should
look at this as a temporary means to make up for the shortfall. Council Member
Reinersman also commented that moving three employees is not ideal, but feels
it would put the Building Inspector closer to the other employees. He also
commented that two employees were terminated in recent years because of the
downturn in the economy and less revenue. Council Member Yeager responded that
the revenue is not that far down.
Council Member Brinker asked about leasing the storage space under the Council
Chambers. Mr. Groth stated they would need five offices for a total of 1700-
1800 square feet. He stated the building alterations would be funded by the
State Police. Council Member Franzen stated she would like to speak to the
State Police. She stated she does not want to turn down this proposal now and
would like to table it.
Mayor Moriconi stated he did not expect the Council to vote on this without
first seeing a copy of the proposed lease agreement. He stated if there was any
interest in moving forward he would get a lease for the next meeting. Council
Member Franzen reiterated she would be interested in speaking with the State
Police, getting more information and reviewing a proposed lease. Council Member
Reinersman stated he would like to see more County services in Independence. He
stated he feels like this would be a starting point to establish a foothold in
the City and then as the City grows the County would find other space to lease.
Council Member Franzen stated she feels their presence here could bring more
business into the City. Council Member Yeager expressed concerns that there
will be more disadvantages to the City.
Council Member Bushong asked if there was an alternative location. Mr.
Middleton stated they could stay in their current location on Stephenson Road
or merge with his Covington office. He stated he would prefer a location in the
center of the County. He stated he does not have a “Plan B.” He stated they
have limited funds for rent and that it is unusual for the State to pay rent as
most of the driver testing offices is housed in a County courthouse and that
fact that the State is willing to pay considerably more rent than they are
currently says something. Council Member Little stated, that if that was the
case, why were they leaving their current location. He stated he thinks there
are other alternatives and it is not fair to the City employees to displace
them from their current offices. Council Member Brinker suggested looking at
other available options within the City. Mr. Groth stated he is looking around
for other rental space as well. Mr. Middleton advised that leasing from a
municipality wouldn’t require them to bid out.
In closing, Council Member Franzen stated she wanted to inspect the space in
the lower level and discuss this with the State Police. Mayor Moriconi directed
Mr. Groth to obtain a proposed lease agreement for Council’s review.
Rumpke Curbside Trash Update – Mayor Moriconi advised that the residents will
be getting a letter from Rumpke about the new trash cans that will be
delivered. He suggested residents could use their old cans elsewhere around
their house or set it out for trash pickup. Mr. Groth advised labeling the old
trash can as “trash” so the hauler will know to take it. He stated the City may
also set up a drop off site for those wanting to dispose of their old
containers. Mayor Moriconi advised that additional information will be posted
on the City’s website.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:00 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 2, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 2,
2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Dedication – Donna Yeager Amphitheater
Mayor Moriconi announced that in recognition of all her efforts and active
participation in the development of the City parks, that the amphitheater in
Memorial Park would be named the Donna Yeager Amphitheater. He unveiled a
bronze plaque that would be installed at the amphitheater. Mayor Moriconi
stated that Ms. Yeager has also served this community for many years as a
Council Member and is an asset to the City. Council Member Yeager expressed her
surprise for this recognition and thanked Mayor Moriconi and everyone for this
honor.
Mayor Moriconi also announced that the July 4th Celebration events would take
place this weekend at the Memorial Park and Amphitheater with the fireworks
display on Saturday at 10:00 p.m.
Approval of the June 4, 2012, Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, June 4, 2012. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Reinersman. No amendments were noted; roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proclamation – July as Parks and Recreation Month
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation declaring July as Parks and Recreation
Month in Independence.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2005-O-13 Restricting the Issuance
of Building and Zoning Permits to Include Unpaid Assessments or Taxes on the
Property – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2005-O-13 which restricts the issuance of a building permit
when there are outstanding or unremedied violations pending against the owner
of the property. This amendment would further restrict any building or zoning
permits being issued if there are any unpaid taxes or assessments against the
applicant or any entity in which the applicant has an ownership interest. Mr.
Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Discussion Relating to a Possible Amendment to the Nuisance Ordinance
Specifically Regarding All Terrain Vehicles
Mayor Moriconi stated that in speaking with the City staff, it seems that the
City does not currently have legislation that regulates the use of all terrain
vehicles. He stated that he would like to propose that the City adopt some
regulations similar to other communities in the area. City Administrator Dan
Groth stated that he would research other city ordinances and would work with
Mr. Deters to come up with some language to add to the nuisance ordinance. Mr.
Deters commented that it would be a simple modification.
Council Member Little stated that Independence is different than some
communities in that we have rural areas. He stated that all terrain vehicles
are used by hunters. He suggested that a noise decibel reading may solve the
nuisance complaint issues if the noise registered above a specific level that
would be loud enough to be deemed a nuisance. Mr. Deters said the decibel level
could be modified for hunting season. Council Member Reinersman agreed that
addressing the decibel level could be a solution. Mr. Deters commented that it
may be hard to enforce as a nuisance unless someone is there to take a decibel
reading. Chief Shawn Butler stated that according to Kentucky state law in
order to cite the violator the police officer has to witness the violation. He
stated that this is a problem throughout the City and he doesn’t know the
answer to resolving this. Mayor Moriconi stated the challenge in establishing
regulations for all terrain use is that many subdivisions abut farms or
acreage. Council Member Bushong commented that the mufflers on the all terrains
can be adjusted to purposely make it louder. Mr. Groth stated he would work
with Mr. Deters on drafting a proposed ordinance and would send it to them to
review before the next meeting. Mayor Moriconi stated that complaints about the
noise these vehicles make has come up multiple times in the last few years.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Discussion of Proposed Refinancing of the Municipal Center – Mr. Groth advised
Council the City currently has a thirty year bond on the Municipal Center. He
stated the ten-year prepayment penalty will expire in January 2013 and with
record low interest rates it would be a good time to refinance the debt. He
reported that he sought refinancing rates from several banks and received five
proposals. An analysis of the refinancing proposals was presented in the
Council packets. Mr. Groth stated the proposals have been reviewed and he is
recommending that the City refinance the Municipal Center with Ross, Sinclair
and Associates for a fifteen year fixed rate of 2.603%. He stated this would
save the City $1,233,509 in interest over the life of the loan and the building
would be paid off five years sooner.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to accept the rate proposal of Ross, Sinclair and Associates and
proceed with the refinancing of the Municipal Center for a fifteen year term
with a fixed rate of 2.603%. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Other Reports: Mr. Groth reported the City has saved $25,000 in insurance
premium costs, due to lower renewal rates for property, liability and workers’
compensation policies.
Announcement: Mr. Groth announced that the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission would be holding an Elected Officials Forum on July 1 from 6:00 – 8:
00 p.m. at the Edgewood Senior Center. He stated that local elected officials
are being invited to provide input for the Direction 2030 Comprehensive Plan.
He stated they are asking that each city have three council members present at
this meeting. He stated he will be attending along with Maura Snyder who is the
City’s representative on the Kenton County Planning Commission.
Leasing of the Lower Level of the Municipal Center
Mr. Groth presented to Council a sample lease agreement which the State has
submitted to the City for a proposal to lease the lower level of the
Administration side of the Municipal Center. He reminded Council that the State
Police is proposing to lease this space for their drivers testing division. He
advised the State drivers testing division is currently located on Stephenson
Road in Erlanger where they have been for more than thirty (30) years. He
stated they would like to move here as their current space is in disrepair. Mr.
Groth stated he would suggest a one-year property lease at $2,100 per month;
this rent would include the cost of the electrical work that the City will have
to do to accommodate their needs. He stated that he feels this is a good move
that will bring more people to the City and support the existing business and
restaurants. He stated in his opinion he feels this is a good deal and may
encourage other government offices to locate in the City. Mayor Moriconi
pointed out that it is a simple, one-page lease agreement.
A lengthy discussion ensued regarding the proposed Agreement. Council Members
shared their concerns with some of the language in the Agreement. Mr. Groth
suggested that Mr. Deters could insert any conditions or stipulations the City
would want and then it could be presented to the State to see if they would
agree. Council Member Franzen stated that this is a divisive issue and wondered
if the State would accept conditions imposed by the City. Council Member Yeager
stated she had a lot of concerns with the Agreement as presented by the State.
Council Member Little suggested the Mayor take a straw poll to see if the
majority of Council was even interested in pursuing a lease agreement. He
stated he had never heard of the Lessee writing their own lease agreement. Mr.
Groth advised that it was a State law and they have the power to do this.
Council Member Little stated there was a host of things that are not even
addressed in the Agreement. He stated he did some research and found that the
monthly lease rate being proposed is below average for this area and does not
take into consideration CAM (Common Area Maintenance) costs. He stated that at
$2,100 per month this will not cover the costs of normal wear and tear on the
building, use of restrooms, hallways, parking lot, increased costs of the
City’s utility bills, etc. He stated that their Agreement requires the City to
provide all the maintenance and insurance costs. Council Member Little stated
this one page agreement doesn’t even begin to cover basic guidelines and
management terms such as leave/enter times, furnishings supplied, key system to
be used, storage, utilities, default, destruction/condemnation, remodel rights,
inspection checklist, default and other services.
Mr. Deters commented that those items would be in a commercial retail lease
agreement and not things that the City should need to worry about with an
agreement with the State.
Council Member Little stated that leasing space to this State agency would
increase the foot traffic in the City building ten-fold.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that he had Mr. Deters prepare a mock lease
agreement and when it was presented to the State representatives the City was
told they would be presenting a State agreement. Council Member Little
commented that the lease agreement the State has presented clearly favors the
tenant. Mr. Deters stated that the agreement form presented is the State
approved form.
Council Member Reinersman stated that he agreed that all the things expressed
by Council Member Little are all parts of the average commercial lease. He
stated that the State of Kentucky has a lot of leased space throughout the
Commonwealth, so it is not uncommon for the Lessee to draft the lease
agreement. He stated that he has not seen the commercial lease rates that
Council Member Little quoted. Mr. Deters commented that CAM is based on square
footage and in this instance it would be a small amount. Council Member Little
stated that most leases require the normal wear to be paid by the tenants.
Council Member Yeager commented that the Municipal Center building was built
large enough so that the City would have space for future growth and was not
intended to house other agencies.
Mayor Moriconi wondered what effect a leased space would have on the City
insurance policies/premiums. Mr. Groth advised he would look into that. Council
Member Yeager asked who would be responsible if one of the State’s clients was
hurt while in the building. Council Member Bushong suggested that probably
everyone would be named in a lawsuit. He stated that some of the State
employees are armed which would change the picture and the City’s exposure.
Council Member Franzen commented that item six on the agreement allows the
State to sublet the space. She stated she does not find that an acceptable
term. Council Member Bushong commented that the lease was a take it or leave
it. Mayor Moriconi agreed that the State agreement terms trump the City and he
doesn’t know if they will accept any revisions to their lease agreement.
Council Member Little stated that he doesn’t think they will delete or add any
terms to what they have presented. Council Member Yeager commented she doesn’t
want to be involved with a tenant dictating the terms of the agreement to the
City. Council Member Reinersman commented that this is the State’s standard
lease.
Council Member Little stated he did a lot of research on this issue. He stated
he feels there is a big difference here in leasing to another government agency
where the City can’t even control the lease agreement. He stated the City is
not supposed to be in the business of leasing things and becoming a landlord.
Council Member Franzen commented that she is not entirely opposed to leasing
the space, but would want some flexibility in drafting the language of the
lease agreement. She stated that this is not an ordinary store front lease
space and is different from their current leased space on Stephenson Road.
Council Member Little commented that if the Council does not support the
principle of leasing a portion of the building then this is a moot point.
Council Member Franzen stated she objects to some parts of the agreement
presented; she stated she would be concerned if they would sub-lease to another
agency. Council Member Bushong commented that he doesn’t object to getting more
information. Council Member Little stated he is against the principle of
leasing space in this building, but if the majority of the Council is open to
the idea and thinks the agreement can be drafted more in the City’s favor then
so be it.
Council Member Reinersman commented that he feels this should be viewed as
providing more convenience to the citizens and good for the economic
development of the City. Council Member Little added that he also doesn’t like
displacing the City employees that currently occupy the space being considered
for leasing.
Mayor Moriconi asked for a show of hands for those who would like more
information. Council Members Brinker, Franzen and Reinersman raised their
hands.
Mayor Moriconi suggested, that taking the CAM into consideration, that perhaps
the State would consider paying more than the proposed $2,100/month in rent. He
stated that he does not think the State is going to make any revisions to the
proposed lease agreement. He stated he also would like item number six deleted.
Council Member Yeager commented that she does not feel this lease proposal has
been thought through. Council Member Bushong wondered if the City would need to
re-do the parking lot for more handicap spaces, etc. Council Member Franzen
stated she would want the City to have an out clause, just as the State does in
item number five. Council Member Little agreed, and the way he reads it the
State can cancel the agreement but the City cannot.
Mayor Moriconi closed the discussion by advising Council they would resume
discussions with the State to get more information and ask for agreement
revisions and a year to year lease term.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi recognized and welcomed Mary Kreft, who was sitting in the
audience. He stated Ms. Kreft is the Congressional liaison for U. S.
Congressman Geoff Davis.
Rumpke – Mayor Moriconi advised that the new Rumpke trash and recycling
containers are being delivered to the homeowners. Mr. Groth stated they would
be delivered during August and September. He stated if the 96 gallon is too
large they can downsize to the 65 gallon. He stated that Kenton County will
pick up large white goods/appliances or the residents can take the other larger
items to the County facility on Independence Station Road. If residents decide
to leave their large items at the curb then Rumpke will charge $10 per item. He
stated everyone would receive a small, red recycling bin which is included with
the trash rate. He stated that residents should begin using the new containers
as soon as they get them.
HomeFest – Mayor Moriconi announced that the 2012 HomeFest will in the Manor
Hill Subdivision this year and be held over a three weekend period. He stated
the City is very proud to have this event in the City this year.
Parade – Mayor Moriconi announced that Buddy LaRosa of LaRosa’s Pizzerias will
be the Grand Marshall in this year’s July 4th Celebration Parade to be held on
Saturday, July 7, 2012.
Independence Magazine – Council Member Bushong expressed kudos for the new
version of the Independence newsletter recently published. Mayor Moriconi
stated this magazine will replace the old newsletter format. He advised there
was no additional cost to the City as the business ads supported the
publication. He stated there are many coupons in the magazine and encouraged
everyone to support the local businesses. He stated the next publication will
be in November. Council Member Reinersman stated the magazine was a
collaboration with the local paper – Journal News. The Mayor said the
sponsorship by the local businesses made the magazine a reality.
Privileges of the Floor
Rita Hauke – asked the status of a request she made for a picnic table to be
installed at the Independence Park in the Hartland Subdivision. Recreation
Director, Nita Brake advised that in keeping with ADA compliance, that a
handicap table had to be ordered. She stated the concrete pad for the table was
poured last week. Mayor Moriconi commented that this seemingly small request
was more involved than one would think, but it should be fulfilled soon.
Ms. Hauke also presented some zoning complaints which she feels has been in
violation for years and needs to be addressed. Mayor Moriconi stated that with
24,000 residents and only one employee to handle this workload that it is
impossible to get everything, but he appreciates her going around town to bring
these to the City’s attention.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:24 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 6, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 6,
2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Council
Member Mike Little was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the July 2, 2012, Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, July 2, 2012. Council Member Reinersman so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Municipal Order No. 2012-O-01 – Approving the Advertisement of Bids for the Re-
bonding of the Municipal Center Debt
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration a municipal order
that would approve the advertisement for the bid and distribution of a
preliminary official statement for the purchase of City general obligation
refunding bonds for an approximate aggregate amount of $4,170,000. Mayor
Moriconi advised Council that the refinancing of the Municipal Center debt
would cut the interest rate by approximately one-half. He introduced bond
counsel Dirk Bedarff from Peck, Shaffer & Williams who was present to give a
brief explanation of the bonding process and answer any questions the Council
Members might have. Mr. Deters read Municipal Order No. 2012-O-01.
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2012-O-01, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered with all ayes. Motion
carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Authorizing the Issuance of General Obligation Bonds for
the Refinancing of the Municipal Center Building – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
authorize the issuance of general obligation refunding bonds (Series 2012) in
the aggregate principal amount of $4,175,000 to refund the outstanding
principal amount (Series 2003) the proceeds of which were used to finance and
refinance the City’s Municipal Building. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance
a first reading.
Mayor Moriconi asked bond counsel Mr. Bedarff if the proposed interest rate for
the re-bonding could actually be lower by the date of the closing. Mr. Bedarff
advised that in accordance with Kentucky law the bonds will be sold by way of
the bidding process, therefore the rate that will be locked in will be that
which is awarded the bid, so it will depend on the market at the time the bids
are submitted. He stated the rate could be less, but ultimately the City will
accept the lowest bid as submitted. Mr. Bedarff commented that municipal bonds
are currently at a historic low. Mr. Groth, City Administrator advised Council
that the bonds will be sold on Wednesday, September 12, 2012 so the interest
rate will be determined on that date.
There being no further questions, Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Bedarff.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding the Downtown
Independence [DI] Zone to the Zoning Ordinance along with the Necessary Cross
References and Sign Regulations – KCPC Case No. 2072R – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that the four proposed ordinances that would
address the zoning text and map amendments for the Downtown Independence area
would have first readings tonight. He stated he would schedule a special
meeting for later this month to have the second readings and possible adoption.
Mayor Moriconi stated he would allow public comments from the citizens
interested in addressing the Council regarding these zone changes.
Mayor Moriconi presented the first proposed zone change that would amend the
zoning text to add the Downtown Independence [DI] zone, provide for cross
references and sign regulations in the DI zone.
Council Member Reinersman asked the Council Members to consider the Downtown
Small Area Study that was adopted in 2007 as he believes the proposed text
amendment to add the DI zone addresses the intent of the Study. Mayor Moriconi
expressed some concern regarding drive-through facilities and how that might
affect U.S. Bank (at the corner of McCullum and Madison) if a disaster occurred
and they would not be permitted to rebuild as they are today. Council Member
Reinersman responded that the bank is basically grandfathered in, but if the
building was destroyed and they wanted to rebuild it would take the City and/or
a private resident to request a Board of Adjustment ruling to allow a non-
conforming use. Council Member Franzen asked if the bank would be allowed to
change the location of their ATM machine. Andy Videkovich, Senior Planner with
NKAPC commented that in his opinion they could not change the location as it
would not be a matter of right. Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld advised
that the ATM location pre-exists the zone so it would take the City or a
citizen to request a Board of Adjustment determination to terminate the bank’s
land use. Council Member Franzen suggested changing the proposed text to allow
drive through lanes for banks and pharmacies. She stated that she did not feel
it would detract from the area. Council Member Reinersman agreed that it would
not hurt the zone and was open to making the change. Council Members Yeager and
Brinker agreed that needed to be allowed for the banks and pharmacies. Council
Member Brinker thought it could delay the rebuild if the drive though lanes
became an issue that had to be taken before the Board of Adjustment. Council
Member Reinersman advised that the committee had considered the drive through
lanes to generate more traffic in the area which is the reason they were
excluded.
Mr. Deters advised this is a minor change to the proposed text, so the
consensus of Council was to allow drive through lanes for banks and pharmacies.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave a first reading to the
proposed ordinance adding the Downtown Independence Zone to the zoning text and
amending page twenty-one to allow drive through lanes for banks and pharmacies
for sub-district one and two.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Chapter 93 of the Code of Ordinances to Add a
Definition for All Terrain Vehicles (ATV’s) and Regulate the Operation Thereof
– 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend the nuisance ordinance by providing a definition of an all-terrain
vehicle (ATV) and regulating the operation of the vehicles. Mayor Moriconi read
the entire text that would be added. Mr. Deters advised that, in summary, the
use of ATV’s would be illegal before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. unless being
used by hunters during hunting season and that any ATV without the muffler
system provided by the manufacturer would be prohibited.
Mayor Moriconi stated that in recent years the City has increasingly received
complaints from residents that abut farm land or acreage where the ATV’s are
causing a nuisance to the citizens. He stated the City is trying to find a
balance without restricting anyone’s freedoms. Council Member Brinker commented
that since this ordinance also prohibits the operation of an ATV within 150
feet of any dwelling on a lot or parcel he feels this should clear up any issue
and continue to allow those with acreage to operate them within the permitted
time frame.
Joe Massey, 9665 Cloverridge Drive, Independence – addressed Council in favor
of adopting regulations for the use of ATV’s. He stated his property and that
of his neighbor’s border property along Senour Road. He stated the noise from
the ATV’s is so loud that they cannot sit on their decks. He said it is even
audible when in the house with the doors and windows closed. He stated the ATV
use occurs several times a night. He expressed concern that the proposed
ordinance will even solve the problem. Council Member Yeager suggested calling
the police. A brief discussion ensued. Ms. Wuestefeld advised that in order for
a police officer to issue a citation they would have to witness the offense.
She stated the resident could file a civil suit with audio/visual proof of the
violation. Mr. Deters commented that the current nuisance ordinance only has
general parameters which do not pertain to ATV’s.
Jamie Ellison, Independence – spoke against regulating the use of ATV’s. He
stated he uses his ATV on a small 3-acre flag lot on Sylvan Drive and he is
respectful of the neighboring properties. He stated the proposed ordinance’s
condition of 150 feet of any dwelling would prevent him from using his ATV on
his property. He went on to say that the decibel rating of an ATV is equivalent
to that of the average lawn mower, or weedeater. Mr. Ellison said he is
respectful of his neighbors and should be free to enjoy his ATV.
Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Ellison that he does not recall any complaints from
the Sylvan Drive area. He stated that the City would issue citations only on a
complaint basis.
Richard Wolfe, 10280 Manassas Drive, Independence – addressed Council in favor
of the proposed ordinance. He stated the noise from the ATV’s has gotten
progressively worse in his neighborhood over the last few years. He said he
doesn’t oppose the use of ATV’s but it should be done in a respectful way.
Mayor Moriconi stated that he thinks the proposed ordinance will help with some
enforcement.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding the Conservation
Development/Single-Family Overlay Zone to the Zoning Ordinance along with the
Necessary Cross References – KCPC Case No. 2073R - 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance for a text
amendment to the zoning ordinance that would add the conservation development/
single-family (CD-SF) overlay zone. He explained that the conversation overlay
would be another development option available to a potential developer. Council
Member Franzen commented that the overlay option will not take away any
property rights, but in fact will add another development option to the seller
and buyer. There was a brief discussion and the Mr. Deters gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Recess
Council Member Franzen moved to take a brief recess, seconded by Council Member
Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman to reconvene the meeting,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment Changing an Approximately 116-
Acre Area Locating along the North and South Sides of McCullum Pike From R-1C,
R-1D and NC to R-1C (CD-SF), R-1D (CD-SF) and NC (CD-SF) Zones– KCPC Case No.
2074R – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a zoning map amendment changing an approximate 116-acre area located
along the north and south sides of McCullum Pike between Madison Pike and KY17,
approximately 600 feet east of Madison Pike and 1300 feet west of KY17 from R-
1C, R-1D and NC to R-1C (CD-SF), R-1D (CD-SF) and NC (CD-SF) zones.
Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Map Amendment Changing an Approximately 60-
Acre Area Located along the East/West Sides on Madison Pike Between
Independence Station Road and Locust Road from R-1C, R-1D and NC to DI
(Downtown Independence) Zone – KCPC Case No. 2075R - 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a map amendment changing an approximate 60-acre area located along the
east and west sides on Madison Pike between Independence Station Road and
Locust Road from R-1C, R-1D and NC to DI (Downtown Independence) zone.
Council Member Reinersman commented that a request was made by St. Cecilia
Church to be removed from the map amendment area. He stated St. Cecilia’s
request was based on their future development plans which they feel may not
conform to the Downtown Independence (DI) zone. He stated their request was
considered and it was decided to delete the church properties from the zone
change. The properties removed were 5301-5303 Madison, 5305 Madison (St.
Cecilia Church and School) and 5323 Madison Pike (automotive service and
repair).
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Resolution Numbers 2012-R-16 & 2012-R-17 – Authorizing a Text Amendment
Application to Add the Gateway Mixed Use (GMU) Zone to the Zoning Ordinance & a
Map Amendment Application to Change the Zoning of an Approximate 42-Acre Area
Located on the North and South Sides of McCullum Pike and West of New KY17 from
R-1C and R-1D to Gateway Mixed Use Zone
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution Numbers 2012-R-16 & 2012-R-17
which would authorize submitting a text amendment application, as well as a map
amendment application to the NKAPC to add the Gateway Mixed Use (GMU) zone to
the official zoning ordinance and change the zone of approximately 42 acres
located on the north and south sides of McCullum Pike and west of New KY17 from
R-1C and R-1D to Gateway Mixed Use (GMU) zone. He stated that the Gateway Mixed
Use zone is the last of the recommended text and map zone changes as submitted
by the Steering Committee.
Council Member Reinersman advised there were some changes made to the original
text draft submitted by the Steering Committee. He stated some property owners
in the Gateway area had voiced some concerns which were discussed and addressed
in the revision of the text now before the Council. He stated some of the
changes include adding more land uses, providing a clear definition of a manard
roof, addressing shared parking, public amenities and the type of signage and
lighting as it relates to corporate logos or images.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to approve Resolution Numbers 2012-R-16 and 2012-R-17. No roll
called; motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2012-R-18 – Adopting the NKADD Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-18 which would adopt
the NKADD regional Hazard Mitigation Plan which is a requirement of FEMA in
order to receive future funding in the case of natural hazard damages to people
and properties in the area.
Mr. Groth advised that the Northern Kentucky Area Development District is
asking that all communities in this region execute this resolution.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Resolution No. 2012-R-18, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Text Amendment Amending the Regulations
Pertaining to Parking and/or Storing of Recreational Vehicles, Inoperable
Vehicles, etc.- KCPC Case No. 2083R – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration a proposed
ordinance that would approve a zoning text amendment amending the regulations
pertaining to parking or storing of trailers, mobile homes, campers, inoperable
vehicles and other such type of equipment. He stated the proposed amendment
added two words “or owner” in Section 9.23 (c) (1). He stated this would permit
the storage of a recreational vehicle by the occupier “or owner” of the
residence.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-06 – Amending Ordinance No. 2005-O-13 Restricting the
Issuance of Building and Zoning Permits to Include Unpaid Assessments or Taxes
on the Property – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-
06 which would approve the amendment of Ordinance No. 2005-O-13 which restricts
the issuance of building and zoning permits when there are any outstanding or
unremedied violations pending against the owner of the property to include
unpaid taxes or assessments against the property or any other property owned by
the same permit applicant. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2012-O-06 a second
reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-06. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Award Bid for Sylvan Drive Storm Sewer Improvements
Mr. Groth presented to Council the results of the bids received for the project
known as the Sylvan Drive Storm Sewer Improvements. He stated that the City
received nine bids ranging from a low of $105,987 to a high bid of $163,253. He
stated the city engineer is recommending the City award the contract to Lonkard
Construction as the low bidder in the amount of $105,987. Mr. Groth advised
Council that this is a collaborative project with the Sanitation District and
the City will split the cost of the improvements with the District. Mayor
Moriconi advised that the engineer’s cost estimate for this project was
$143,190 and the City was fortunate to receive very aggressive bids for this
project resulting in a $37,000 savings on this project.
Council Member Franzen moved to award the bid to Lonkard Construction as the
best and lowest bid in the amount of $105,987. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Reinersman. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Declare Surplus Property and Authorize Auction of 2000 Ford Crown Vic Police
Cruiser
Mr. Groth requested the Council consider declaring a 2000 Ford Crown Vic as
surplus property. He stated this is an old police cruiser with about 100,000
miles, which most recently has been used by the Public Works Department. He
stated the vehicle would be sold at the Kenton County Police auction being held
next month.
Council Member Bushong moved to declare the 2000 Ford Crown Vic – VIN # 2FAFP71
W7YX206615 as surplus property to be disposed of via auction. Council Member
Reinersman seconded the motion. No roll call; motion carried with all ayes.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters requested that an executive session be called so that he can update
Council on pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi gave recognition to Lieutenant Mike Thatcher of the Police
Department. He stated that Lt. Thatcher recently graduated from the FBI police
academy, which now makes the seventh officer from the City that has attended
this FBI training program.
Mayor Moriconi announced that Florence Freedom will host City of Independence
night on Tuesday, August 21st. He stated that part of the proceeds for each
ticket sold will benefit the Memorial Oaks project.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Lakeside Christian Church who supplied approximately 100
volunteers for a work program last weekend. He stated the volunteers spruced up
three City parks doing various projects as needed at the parks. He thanked
Recreation Director Nita Brake for coordinating the volunteer’s efforts. He
thanked Lakeside Christian for becoming involved in the community.
Executive Session
At 8:44 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 9:07 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Yeager moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 9:08 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 20, 2012
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Monday, August 20, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol
Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this Special meeting of Council
was being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
·   Ordinance No. 2012-O-07 – Authorizing the Issuance of General Obligation
Refunding Bonds for the Refinancing of the Municipal Center Building – 2nd
Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2012-O-08 – Approving a Text Amendment Adding the Downtown
Independence (DI) Zone to the Zoning Ordinance along with Necessary Cross
References and Sign Regulations – 2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2012-O-09 – Approving a Text Amendment Adding the
Conservation Development/Single-Family Overlay Zone to the Zoning Ordinance
along with Necessary Cross References – 2nd Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2012-O-10 – Approving a Map Amendment Changing an Approximate
116-Acre Area Located along the North and South Sides of McCullum Pike – 2nd
Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2012-O-11 – Approving a Map Amendment Changing an Approximate
60-Acre Area Located along the East and West Sides on Madison Pike Between
Independence Station Road & Locust Road from R-1C, R-1D and NC to DI (Downtown
Independence) Zone – 2nd Reading
·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2012 Tax Rates for Real Estate and
Tangible Property – 1st Reading
·   Ordinance No. 2012-O-12 – Approving a Text Amendment Relating to the
Regulations of Parking and/or Storing of Recreational Vehicles, Inoperable
Vehicles, etc. – 2nd Reading
Ordinance No. 2012-O-07 – Authorizing the Issuance of General Obligation Bonds
for the Refinancing of the Municipal Center Building – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-07 – an
ordinance that would authorize the issuance of general obligation refunding
bonds (Series 2012) in the aggregate principal amount of $4,175,000 to refund
the outstanding principal amount (Series 2003) the proceeds of which were used
to finance and refinance the City’s Municipal Building. Mr. Deters gave
Ordinance No. 2012-O-07 a second reading.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-07, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-08 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding the Downtown
Independence [DI] Zone to the Zoning Ordinance along with the Necessary Cross
References and Sign Regulations – KCPC Case No. 2072R – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-
08. This ordinance would approve a zoning text amendment to add a new zone
called the Downtown
Independence [DI] zone, provide for cross references as well as sign
regulations in the DI zone. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2012-O-08 a second
reading.
Council Member Little commented that this text amendment would just create the
DI zone in the zoning ordinance. Don Nienaber, 57 McCullum Road, Independence,
questioned the exempting of the bank and St. Cecilia Church from the possible
DI zone area. Council Member Reinersman explained that U.S. Bank was not
exempted but that St. Cecilia Church had requested exemption and it was granted
as the church property was on the outer edge. He advised that St. Cecilia would
like to expand in the future and possibly build a bell tower which would exceed
the parameter of this amendment. He stated the deletion of St. Cecilia Church
property was made before the application was submitted to the NKAPC. Mr.
Nienaber also expressed some concern about gas stations in the area and felt
they should be exempt as well. Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld advised
that the B & B auto repair shop is currently a non-conforming use which could
be transferred to a new owner.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Court, Independence – expressed concern that apartment
buildings would be permitted in the Downtown Independence zone and stated that
she did not feel this should be allowed. Council Member Reinersman stated this
is the first objection he has heard about the apartments, besides the June 7th
Kenton County Planning Commission hearing,.Council Member Brinker wondered if a
small parcel would be large enough to even accommodate an apartment building.
Ms. Hauke stated that two parcels could be merged to accommodate an apartment
building. She also stated that she is concerned that this new zone would not
permit some types of businesses. Council Member Reinersman advised that twenty-
three new uses would be added to the uses currently allowed. He agreed that
some uses would not be allowed, such as warehouses, factories and mini storage
units, but he said those uses are not allowed now and the City would not want
those types of businesses in the downtown area in the future.
Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, Independence – stated his wife spoke out
against permitting apartments in the downtown area at the KCPC public hearing
meeting.
Mary Baum, 83 McCullum Road, Independence – presented Mayor Moriconi with two
petitions opposing the proposed map and text amendments establishing the
Downtown Independence [DI] zone. She stated this petition was also presented at
the KCPC public hearing on this issue. Additionally she stated she would like
to go on record as objecting to the apartment units being a permitted land use.
Chuck Baum commented that the DI zone would also permit parking garages.
Council Member Franzen stated she is hearing the concerns being expressed about
restricting businesses in the downtown area and the opposition to creating the
Downtown Independence zone yet the new zone will permit twenty three additional
types of businesses that are not currently allowed. Mayor Moriconi expressed
his concerns to permitting apartments in this zone, which he stated he wouldn’t
want next to him either. James Williamson, 144-B McCullum Road, Independence -
commented that there is adequate property outside the area for the development
of apartment buildings. Mayor Moriconi stated the PUD mixed use development on
Centennial Boulevard has worked well.
Council Member Reinersman stated he has no objection to removing the free-
standing apartment buildings in the Downtown Independence zone, but feels the
store fronts should be allowed to rent the second floor as apartments.
Council Member Reinersman stated that multiple public meetings were held with
the property owners during the process of drafting these text and map
amendments and as a result many changes were made. He stated the committee
worked hard to address the property owners and residents concerns, but the fact
is that some people just don’t want to see any changes. He stated the city has
grown at a rapid pace and these changes will achieve some of the goals outlined
in the Downtown Small Area Study adopted in 2007. Council Member Little stated
he did not agree with the Study in its entirety, but that the document was
adopted as a whole. He stated he is not so much concerned with meeting the
recommendations of the Small Area Study as he is in addressing the resident’s
needs and concerns. Council Member Reinersman stated that the residents pointed
out the flaws in the original draft, which were addressed and he feels that
they have produced a good document. He stated that email notices were sent to
many of the interested residents to remind them of tonight’s meeting and very
few are in attendance.
Mayor Moriconi stated that he feels there is a consensus to delete the eight
apartment unit buildings in the proposed plan. There was a brief discussion;
the eight unit apartment notations were located in the proposed text and
deleted in accordance with the Council.
Mayor Moriconi commented that the bottom line is that this text amendment opens
the possibility for twenty-three more types of businesses currently not
permitted in the downtown area.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Reinersman to approve Ordinance No. 2012-O-08
with a minor modification deleting the text for multi-family uses. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-09 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding the
Conservation Development/Single-Family Overlay Zone to the Zoning Ordinance
along with the Necessary Cross References – KCPC Case No. 2073R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
for a text amendment to the zoning ordinance that would add the conservation
development/single-family (CD-SF) overlay zone.
Council Member Reinersman stated this proposal was also presented at the public
meetings. He stated that the conservation development/single-family overlay
zone would not be mandatory, but an optional plan available to a developer.
Council Member Franzen stated that the overlay development plan would go
through a Stage I approval and the City’s Zoning Administrator would determine,
if needed, to come back to Council for approval.
Council Member Little expressed some concern with regard to the maintenance and
ownership of open space and the language that if a Homeowners Association would
become defunct then the City would take over ownership of the green space. He
stated he did not feel the City should be in the business of taking over the
operation of a Homeowners Association. Mr. Deters advised that the clause in
the document would basically allow the City to step in and take over the
maintenance of the common open space and determine how to dispose of the land.
Council Member Little wondered if there was a better way to handle this. Mayor
Moriconi commented that this would allow the City to sell the common land to
adjoining property owners and get out of the maintenance of the land as quickly
as possible. Mr. Deters stated the fee simple title to the land would let the
City subdivide the land or dispose of the land any way the City saw fit to do
so. Council Member Little thought that it might be difficult to dispose of such
a large area [a 30% common space]. Mr. Deters stated it would be at the City’s
discretion whether or not to assume the common land of a defunct Homeowners’
Association, but that the City has had some success in the past in disposing
City property. Council Member Franzen advised that a developer would have to
show the City a viable plan for a conservation area and the City would then
impose conditions on the development.
Further discussion focused on the misunderstanding and misinformation that has
circulated about the proposed text and map amendments for the downtown area.
Residents in attendance expressed their concerns for how their property values
would be affected and how the changes would affect the local businesses in the
area as well as the White’s farm. They also questioned the need for an overlay
zone that would be optional and did not see the purpose it would serve. Council
Member Franzen explained that only the City can apply for and adopt a text
amendment to the zoning laws and by adding these new zones this would be
available for future development. Council Member Reinersman advised that if a
developer wanted to build patio homes they couldn’t do it because the City’s
doesn’t currently have the zone that would permit that type of development. He
stated without the zone existing the developer might look elsewhere so they
wouldn’t have to go through a lengthy process it would take to request and wait
for the city to adopt the zone needed.
Mary Baum stated she was concerned about the number of homes that could be
allowed with the conservation district zone. She did not feel there was a good
transition of mixed use between the conservation district and McCullum Road and
that the residents of McCullum Road were not being represented. Council Member
Reinersman explained the overlay zone development would provide 30% green space
and build on the remaining area by parceling smaller lots. He stated that the
City does not have many housing options for empty nesters and seniors and as
the economy continues to rebound the City will remain one of the fastest
growing communities in this region. He reiterated that the committee reached
out to the residents on numerous occasions during this process to obtain their
input.
Council Member Bushong addressed the concerns raised about Homeowners’
Associations. He stated that while some people don’t think they are a good
thing, he has seen in his neighborhood that having a strong management company
for the Associations can make them very successful. He stated his neighborhood
of 440 property owners has a very expansive green space which is well
maintained by the management company. He said the City had one Homeowners
Association – Hunters Green subdivision – that went defunct many years ago, but
he feels it unlikely that would ever happen again. Council Member Little stated
his subdivision also has a Homeowner’s Association, but they do not have any
common areas to be maintained by the Association. Council Member Reinersman
agreed that it is unlikely that future Homeowner’s Associations would fail, and
generally it is a failed developer that can cause the problem.
Council Member Little asked why the properties on the north side of McCullum
were left out of the zone change. Council Member Reinersman responded that the
north side has many smaller, occupied parcels while the south side has the
larger parcels which would be open for development. He stated he is open to
including the north side if this is something Council would like.
Council Member Brinker commented that he feels that very little implementation
has resulted from the 2007 Downtown Small Area Study and now that the City is
taking steps to put some of the recommendations in place that there seems to be
a lot of resistance to move forward. Council Member Reinersman stated that the
committee started working on this proposal in April 2010. Council Member
Franzen stated that she and Council Member Reinersman scheduled a meeting for
the residents in the Hartland subdivision to address their concerns and
approximately twenty people showed up. She stated the City has not taken this
proposal lightly, has done due diligence, and while everyone may not agree she
feels this is a good plan for the City. Council Member Little commented that
this doesn’t benefit a developer when they have to deal with multiple owners to
acquire land. He stated that he feels if one property owner feels their rights
are being violated then he is against this proposal. Council Member Franzen
disagreed that one property owner’s opposition should outweigh several that may
be in favor of it. Council Member Reinersman stated that the City has to look
at the proposal as a whole, find a middle ground and do what is in the best
interest of the entire City. He stated he is yet to hear what is harming the
property owners by approving this proposal.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence – commented that when she was on the
City Council in 2004-2005 when the Downtown Small Area Study was presented, she
recalls asking how long the Study would be relevant and one of the Senior
Planners with the Northern Kentucky Planning Commission responded that it was
already obsolete.
Mr. Williamson, 144-B McCullum Road, Independence - commented that he doesn’t
know anyone that is in favor of these text and map amendments. He stated he
does not feel the City is listening to the property owners. Council Member
Reinersman responded that very few opposers have attended this meeting. Council
Member Franzen commented that when the City gives property owners more options
for future development of their land that this should be considered a benefit.
She stated she does not know how this is being interpreted as taking away the
owners rights. She stated that if a developer wants to change the zone they can
come to the City and make the request, but by adding this option for an overlay
zone this now gives them two options for development.
Mayor Moriconi closed the discussion. A motion was made by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-09, seconded by Council Member
Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-10 – Approving a Map Amendment Changing an Approximate
116-Acre Area Locating along the North and South Sides of McCullum Pike From R-
1C, R-1D and NC to R-1C (CD-SF), R-1D (CD-SF) and NC (CD-SF) Zones– KCPC Case
No. 2074R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would approve a zoning map amendment changing an approximate 116-acre area
located along the north and south sides of McCullum Pike between Madison Pike
and KY17, approximately 600 feet east of Madison Pike and 1300 feet west of
KY17 from R-1C, R-1D and NC to R-1C (CD-SF), R-1D (CD-SF) and NC (CD-SF) zones.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2012-O-10.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that on a proposed map amendment if the vote
results in a tie, then the recommendation given by the Kenton County Planning
Commission to approve this map amendment would go into effect within ninety
days of the date of the Commission’s public hearing which was June 7, 2012. Mr.
Deters added that it takes the majority of the Council to turn down this
proposed map amendment and that if no action is taken by the Council then it
becomes law as recommended by the Planning Commission.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to approve Ordinance No. 2012-O-10. Roll was
called and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members
Little and Bushong. Motion carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-11 – Approving a Map Amendment Changing an Approximate 60-
Acre Area Located along the East/West Sides on Madison Pike Between
Independence Station Road and Locust Road from R-1C, R-1D and NC to DI
(Downtown Independence) Zone – KCPC Case No. 2075R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-
11, an ordinance that would approve a map amendment changing an approximate 60-
acre area located along the east and west sides on Madison Pike between
Independence Station Road and Locust Road from R-1C, R-1D and NC to DI
(Downtown Independence) zone. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2012-O-11.
There was brief discussion regarding the parcels that were removed from the
original proposal – those parcels being, 5301-5303 Madison Pike, 5305 Madison
Pike (St. Cecilia Church and school) and 5323 Madison Pike.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and second by Council Member
Franzen to approve Ordinance No. 2012-O-11. Roll was called and answered with
four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Bushong and Little. Motion
carried 4-2.
Recess
Council Member Little moved to take a brief recess, seconded by Council Member
Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen to reconvene the meeting, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Property Tax Rates for 2012 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the 2012 real estate tax rate at $0.237 dollars for each one hundred
dollars of the assessed value and a personal property tax rate of $0.656
dollars for each one hundred dollars of the assessed value. Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a first reading.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-12 – Approving a Text Amendment Amending the Regulations
Pertaining to Parking and/or Storing of Recreational Vehicles, Inoperable
Vehicles, etc.- KCPC Case No. 2083R – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-
12 approving a zoning text amendment amending the regulations pertaining to
parking or storing of trailers, mobile homes, campers, inoperable vehicles and
other such type of equipment. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2012-O-12 a second
reading.
Council Member Franzen stated she is not in favor of this proposed amendment
that would allow the property owner to store their recreational type vehicles
without actually living at that residence and possibly living in another city.
Mr. Groth commented that the current ordinance requires the owner to also be
the occupant of the property where the recreational vehicle is stored. Council
Member Yeager stated she sponsored this amendment after she was approached by a
property owner that requested this change.
After a brief discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Little to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-12. Roll was
called and resulted in a tie vote. Council Members voting yes were Yeager,
Little and Brinker with no votes cast by Council Members Reinersman, Bushong
and Franzen. Mr. Deters advised Council that a tie vote defeats Ordinance No.
2012-O-12 because a text amendment requires a majority vote by the Council to
become law and does not defer to the Kenton County Planning Commission’s
recommendation for approval.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:25 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 10, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City if Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
10, 2012, at 7:00 P.M. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the August 6, 2012, Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, August 6, 2012. Council Member Carol Franzen so moved,
with second by Donna Yeager. Council Member asked for the following changes:
“page 2, 3rd paragraph, line seven to read – it would take the City and/or a
private resident to request a Board of Adjustment ruling to a non-conforming
use and, line twelve – it would take the City or citizen to request a Board of
Adjustment determination to terminate the Bank’s land use”. Motion to amend and
pass was voted on by five Council Members, with Council Member Mike Little
abstaining.
Approval of the August 20, 2012, Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting on Monday, August 20, 2012. Council Member Jim Bushong made the motion
to approve, seconded by Council Member Carol Franzen. Council Member Chris
Reinersman asked for the following change: “page two, third paragraph, line
four – after apartments, add comma and the words besides the June KCPC
Hearing”. Motion to amend and pass was unanimous.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-13 – Adopting Real and Personal Property Tax Rates for
2012 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for their consideration the second reading
of an ordinance that would set the ad valorem tax on real property, at the rate
of $0.237 Dollars for each One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) of the value thereof,
and an ad valorem tax on all personal property, other than motor vehicles, at
the rate of $0.656 Dollars for each One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) of value.
There being no discussion by Council Members or members of the audience, motion
was made by Council Member Carol Franzen to approve ordinance #2012-O-13,
seconded by Council Member Jim Bushong, all members voted “aye” – motion
carried.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-14 – Amending Section 93 of the Code of Ordinances to Add
a Definition for All Terrain Vehicles and Providing Regulations for Their Use –
2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for the second reading of the above ordinance which
would add the following language to Chapter 93 of the City Code of Ordinances,
Section .03, adding Subsection (Q), which states it shall be declared a
nuisance to operate any ATV within the City, on any day, before 8:00 a.m. or
after 10:00 p.m., except for legal hunting purposes or when being used in an
emergency. It will also be illegal to operate at any speed in excess of the
minimum speed required to maintain the forward motion of the ATV while it is
within 150 feet of any dwelling on a lot or parcel of real estate other than
that upon which the ATV is being operated, and if the sound unreasonably
interferes with the residential use and enjoyment of any other lot or parcel of
real estate. Motion was made by Council Member Chris Reinersman to approve the
above ordinance and seconded by Council Member Mike Little. All members voted
“aye” – motion carried.
Resolution No. 2012-R-19 – Adopting the Northern Kentucky Solid Waste
Management Plan 2013 – 2017 Update
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council the above Resolution that would sign off on
the five-year plan of the Northern Kentucky Solid Waste Management Plan for the
Northern Kentucky Solid Waste Management Area, which comprises the Counties of
Kenton, Boone, and Campbell. City Administrator Dan Groth explained the history
of the NKSWMA and how, in addition to the County Governments approving the
plan, Kentucky State EPA also wants the larger cities in the counties to also
show approval for the plan. Motion was made by Council Member Carol Franzen to
adopt the above resolution, seconded by Council Member Donna Yeager. All
members voted “aye – motion carried.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Tom Brinker moved to adjourn
the meeting, seconded by Council Member Donna Yeager – all “ayes” – motion
carried and the meeting adjourned at 7:29 p.m.
                  _________________________________
                  Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Dan Groth, City Administrator
October 1, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
1, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the September 10, 2012, Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, September 10, 2012. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with second by Council Member Bushong. Amendments were noted; roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Recognition of P.O. Jeff Young by American Legion Riders
American Legion Riders, Post 4, Director Dave Brotherton, a resident of
Independence, recognized Independence Police Officer Jeff Young for his
participation on Saturday, August 28th for assisting with traffic control
during the motorcycle escort of 225 soldiers from the Kentucky National Guard
1204th Aviation Support Battalion. He stated the Riders met the soldiers at the
Indiana/Kentucky state line, after a tour of duty in Kuwait and were escorted
to a welcome home event at the Florence Freedom Center.
Presentation of the “Spirit of 76” Print by Independence Resident, Gerald
Czulewicz
Mayor Moriconi introduced Independence resident, Gerald Czulewicz, who
presented the City with a print known as the “Spirit of 76” by Archibald
Willard.
Mr. Czulewicz addressed Council by saying it was an honor and a privilege to
present this print to the City. He stated he owned the original painting for
twenty-five years before gifting it to the national collection. He stated the
original painting is currently on display in the Benjamin Franklin State Dining
Room of the White House. Mr. Czulewicz stated he spent many years collecting
Uncle Sam memorabilia; a collection that toured the nation for about fourteen
years. He stated he still has a major part of this collection in his possession
and would like to put it on exhibit sometime in the future as part of a City
event.
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a copy of a book authored by Mr. Czulewicz
which shows his Uncle Sam collection. He advised the Mr. Czulewicz has
personally autographed the book and donated it to the City as well. Mayor
Moriconi thanked him for these gifts and stated he would find a prominent place
to display the print.
Mayor Moriconi also thanked Council Member Yeager for a historical print she
found and has donated to the City.
Presentation by Rhonda Whitaker, Duke Energy Area Representative Regarding the
Proposed 911 Parcel Service Fee
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed Resolution that would express
opposition to the imposition of a 911 parcel service fee for the purpose of
funding a consolidated dispatching center. He went on to say that for 2012 the
Kenton County Fiscal Court has imposed an $85 fee which has been placed on the
2012 property tax bills. He stated this resolution calls upon the members of
the Fiscal Court to re-evaluate their support of the parcel service fee and
support this fee being placed on utility bills. He introduced Rhonda Whitaker,
the Area Representative for Duke Energy who would like to address Council on
this matter and share Duke Energy’s stance on this proposal and why they do not
feel placing this fee on the energy bills is the best option.
Ms. Whitaker stated she realizes that some cities are considering the option to
fund the 911 dispatch center by way of a fee placed on electric bills. She
stated she wanted to educate Council on some issues to consider that they may
not be aware of. She stated that Duke Energy opposes this proposal and that
Owen Electric shares their view as this will set a dangerous precedent on other
private businesses. Ms. Whitaker stated they believe the County does not have
the legal authority to force a private entity to act as a fee and tax collector
and while there are differing legal opinions they don’t believe it can be
legally imposed. She stated that Duke Energy services 7,100,000 customers in
six states and if this was imposed in Kenton County they feel that other
counties in those six states would follow suit. She stated they understand that
the declining number of telephone land lines and had an impact on the declining
revenues to support the dispatching center, but Duke would encourage the County
to look at ways to become more efficient by merging services.
Ms. Whitaker distributed a hand-out that listed the various economic
development and community relation efforts by Duke Energy in this region.
She advised Council that Kenton County did not explore the option of placing
this fee on the electric bills with Duke Energy. She stated they had to be
proactive in opening the lines of discussion. Ms. Whitaker stated that Duke
Energy is also aware there are a lot of challenges with placing the fee on the
real estate property taxes (since everyone does not own property), so there is
a need to explore other options. She encouraged the Fiscal Court to form a
committee to look at other options.
Ms. Whitaker stated that Duke does collect school gross receipts tax for the
state, but this is because the company’s been regulated to do so and becomes
the taxpayer, not the tax collector. She went on to quote K.R.S. mandates on
collecting service fees and surcharges.
She stated that she knows that placing the fee on the utility bills seems like
an expedient method of collection, but they do not feel it is the best option.
There was a brief question and answer session with Ms. Whitaker regarding what
determines the types of tax/fees that can be placed on a public utility bill.
She responded that any fee would have to be regulated under tariff law and be
approved by the Public Services Commission (PSC).
Council Member Franzen stated that she opposes the County’s position to place
the 911 dispatch fee on the utility bills and feels they need to explore
alternate ways to fund the dispatch center. She asked Ms. Whitaker if Duke
Energy would share their customer address file with the County for purposes of
sending a separate bill for the fee. Ms. Whitaker stated that she does not feel
they could legally provide this data which is considered proprietary
information.
Council Member Reinersman asked if this is the first time Duke has been asked
to collect this type of fee. Ms. Whitaker responded yes, this is the first time
this has been requested. She stated they have made inquiries to other utility
companies to see if they have been asked to collect this type fee and found
that those companies had never been asked.
Mayor Moriconi commented there has been some talk about placing the fee on cell
phone bills, but that it was dismissed because there are too many cell phone
providers to make this a viable option.
Mayor Moriconi thanked Ms. Whitaker for discussing this issue with the Council.
She encouraged everyone to contact her if they had any further questions or
needed more information.
Council Member Franzen encouraged the Council Members to call the members of
the Fiscal Court if they had any suggestions for alternate solutions for
funding the dispatch center. She also stated that she works for the Kenton
County Sheriff’s office and advised that a resident can pay their county taxes
and refuse to pay the 911 fee which is on the tax bill. She said they have the
ability to split the bill if the taxpayer does not want to pay the fee. She
stated a list of names that did not pay the fee will be forwarded to the County
Attorney and he will decide how to handle those that did not pay the fee. Mayor
Moriconi advised there will be legal consequences for those not paying the fee.
Further discussion centered on when the 911 fee would be eliminated from the
land line phone bills. Mr. Groth stated he was not sure when that would happen.
Council Member Franzen stated she was told it would be removed before the tax
bills were mailed. She stated that the Erlanger residents are paying the fee
twice. She stated that exemptions can also be filed by taxpayers that own
vacant property, etc. Mayor Moriconi stated there is an appeal application that
can be submitted to the Appeal Board that has been established by the Fiscal
Court. Council Member Franzen advised that all complaints regarding this fee
should be directed to the Kenton County Fiscal Court, not the Sheriff’s Office
that collects the taxes.
Municipal Order No. 2012-MO-03 – Appointing Park National Bank as the Successor
Paying Agent and Registrar for the $4,150,000 General Obligation Refunding
Bonds, Series 2012, Effective on January 7, 2013.
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for consideration a Municipal Order that
would appoint Park National Bank as the successor paying agent and registrar
for the $4,150,000 refunding bonds for the Municipal Center debt. He reminded
Council that this debt was refinanced last month at a 15-year fixed rate of
1.8% which saved the taxpayers $1,400,000 in interest over the life of the
loan. He advised this Municipal Order would transition the original paying
agent/registrar Bank of New York to Park National Bank. Mr. Groth stated the
City would like Park National to handle this account after the first payment in
January 2013 because the City currently holds an account with Park National and
has a business relationship with this bank.
Mr. Deters read Municipal Order No. 2012-O-03. A motion was made by Council
Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member Bushong to adopt Municipal Order
No. 2012-MO-03. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth made a few announcements. He stated the Police Department had their
annual golf outing fundraiser last weekend. He also announced that there would
be a household waste collection event held on Saturday, November 3, 2012 at the
Florence Freedom site in Florence from 9:00 a.m. until 2:00 p.m. He also
reported that Kenton County would be holding a celebration for the 100th
anniversary of the Independence Courthouse on October 12th and 13th. He stated
there are many activities planned for this two-day event. Council Member
Reinersman commented that he served on the planning committee for this event
and encouraged everyone to attend. He stated there will be vendors on the
Courthouse lawn, and tours of the Courthouse will be provided. He also stated
the Independence Farmers’ Market will also be operating as usual at the
Courthouse Square on Saturday.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters requested that an executive session be called so that he can update
Council on pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that trick-or-treat hours for Halloween will be on the
31st from 6-8 p.m. He also reported that the Independence F.O.P. will hold
their annual Haunted Trail on October 19-20 from 7-11 p.m.
Executive Session
At 8:03 p.m. Council Member Reinersman moved to enter into an executive session
in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation.
The motion was seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all
ayes.
At 8:19 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:19 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 5, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
5, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the October 1, 2012, Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, October 1, 2012. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Reinersman. There being no amendments; roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proclamation – Recognizing Reta Vann, Independence Farmers’ Market Manager
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation to the Independence Farmers’ Market
Manager Reta Vann. He stated he wanted to recognize Ms. Vann for her dedication
to the operation of the Market which runs from April through the end of October
each year at the Courthouse Square. He stated she puts in a lot of work to make
the Market a successful feature of the downtown area which stimulates
revitalization in the area and fosters community engagement. Ms. Vann thanked
Mayor Moriconi and the City Council for their support of the Market and local
farmers.
Proclamation – Win the War Against Violence
Mayor Moriconi awarded a proclamation recognizing the educational campaign
efforts of a non-profit organization called Win the War! Against Violence that
encourages and challenges all Kentuckians to voluntarily reduce violence by ten
percent with special focus on Kentucky’s youth. Mayor Moriconi proclaimed the
week of November 5-11, 2012 as “Win the War against Violence” – The 2012 Ten-
Percent Challenge Week.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment (KCPC No. 2092R) to Add
the Gateway Mixed Use (GMU) Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would approve a
zoning text amendment to add the Gateway Mixed Use (GMU) zone as well as
specific sign regulations for that zone.
There was a brief discussion to increase the maximum square footage of a
building with a single land use from 15,000 to 18,000. Council did not object
to this change. There being no further discussion about this proposed text
amendment Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Map Amendment (KCPC No. 2093R) Changing
an Approximate 42-Acre Area Located on the Northwest and Southwest Corners of
the Intersection of McCullum Pike with KY-17 from R-1C and R-1D to GMU (Gateway
Mixed Use) Zone - 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would approve a
zoning map amendment changing an approximate 42-acre site located on the
northwest and southwest corners of the intersection of McCullum Pike with the
new KY17 from R-1C and R-1D to the new GMU zone.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Little asked how many property owners
would be affected by this zone change and if those property owners had been
notified of this proposal. Mr. Groth advised there were about a dozen property
owners affected, all of which have received notice of the proposed change.
When the discussion ended Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Municipal Order No. 2012-MO-02 – Approving the Re-Appointment of Dave Millward
to the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky
Mayor presented Municipal Order No. 2012-MO-02 that would re-appoint Dave
Millward to the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky (TBNK) for a two-
year term beginning on January 1, 2013 and ending on December 31, 2014. He
stated this Board representation is established by the interlocal agreement
with TBNK and that Mr. Millward has a lot of experience in this position and
has done a great job for the City in representing our interests. Mayor Moriconi
read the Municipal Order.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to approve Municipal Order No. 2012-MO-02. Motion carried with all
ayes.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth made a few announcements:
·   Cub Scout Troop 360 led by Pau Kinserly toured the Municipal Center this
afternoon
·   Two new patrol officers graduated from the Police Academy on October 9,
2012. Officer Kenner had his class’s highest GPA and Officer Dillon received
recognition for outstanding physical fitness
·   2030 Direction – this is the updating of the Comprehensive Plan – public
meetings are being held to get citizen input on the Plan and the next meeting
will be held on Wednesday. He encouraged everyone to attend.
Andy Videkovich, Senior Planner with the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission advised Council that when the Comprehensive Plan is drafted it will
be forwarded to all the local cities for adoption.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report on this evening.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi announced that tomorrow is Election Day and he encouraged
everyone to get out and vote.
Mayor Moriconi announced the City’s annual Christmas Walk will be held on
Saturday, December 1st from 6-9 p.m. He advised that the section of Madison
Pike between McCullum Road and Klette Street (in front of the Courthouse) will
be closed during the Walk. He stated the City has obtained permission from the
State Highway Department to close the road during this event as a safety
measure for the citizens. He stated this is a small section of Madison Pike and
the other sections of Madison will remain open during the event. Mayor Moriconi
stated that high attendance of this event is expected again this year. Council
Member Yeager commented that the Christmas Walk will cover a large area from
the Courthouse area along Madison Pike and up to the Senior Center at Memorial
Park off of Declaration Drive. Mayor Moriconi and Council Member Chris
Reinersman announced some of the new attractions for this year’s event which
include horse drawn carriages and telescopes being set up in the Independence
cemetery by the Cincinnati Observatory.
Mayor Moriconi stated he wanted to thank all the volunteers, business community
and City staff for working together to make this event happen every year.
Council Member Franzen stated that as part of the event the Independence
Christian Church will be serving a spaghetti dinner from 4:30 – 7:00 p.m.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:18 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 3, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
3, 2012 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager.
Council Member Carol Franzen was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K.
Deters.
Approval of the November 5, 2012, Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, November 5, 2012. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. There being no amendments; roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-15 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment (KCPC No. 2092R) to
Add the Gateway Mixed Use (GMU) Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-
15, an ordinance that would approve a zoning text amendment to add the Gateway
Mixed Use (GMU) zone as well as specific sign regulations for that zone. Mr.
Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
Mayor Moriconi commented this action will bring closure to the final phase of
implementing the recommendations made in the Downtown Small Area Study adopted
by the City in 2007.
There being do discussion a motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and
seconded by Council Member Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-15. Roll was
called an answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2012-O-16 – Approving a Zoning Map Amendment (KCPC No. 2093R)
Changing an Approximate 42-Acre Area Located on the Northwest and Southwest
Corners of the Intersection of McCullum Pike with KY-17 from R-1C and R-1D to
GMU (Gateway Mixed Use) Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-
16, an ordinance that would approve a zoning map amendment changing an
approximate 42-acre site located on the northwest and southwest corners of the
intersection of McCullum Pike with the new KY17 from R-1C and R-1D to the new
GMU zone. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
There being do discussion a motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and
seconded by Council Member Yeager to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-16. Roll was
called an answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2012-R-21 – Authorizing Participation in the Northern Kentucky
Governmental Purchasing Agreement with Kenton County
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2012-R-21 that would
authorize the City’s participation in the Northern Kentucky Governmental
Purchasing Agreement. Mayor Moriconi explained that by participating in this
purchasing agreement it would allow the City to piggyback off of the County’s
bid pricing thereby eliminating the City’s need to go through the same legal
bid process for identical materials that need to be purchased by the City. He
stated he spoke with the City’s auditor and the auditor advises this is the
best way to achieve this and cover all the bases going forward. There was a
brief discussion. Council Member Little commented that this process could drive
prices down for servicing a larger market. Mayor Moriconi concurred that this
collective process garners better pricing for the county and the cities that
participate in the agreement. Council Member Bushong asked if the City would
still have the option to conduct our own bid process for products or services.
Mr. Groth advised the City could, at any time, put out for bids. Mayor Moriconi
advised that the City would continue to bid out major street projects, but
would use the County bid prices for in-house projects. Mr. Deters advised that
this purchasing agreement also allows the City to take advantage of the salt
(for snow and ice) prices the County gets when they bid out for this material.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2012-R-21.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to adopt Resolution No. 2012-R-21. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Executive Order No. 2012-EO-03 – Appointing David Cain to the Code Enforcement/
Board of Ethics
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Executive Order appointing David Cain to
the Code Enforcement/Board of Ethics. He stated that this appointment would
replace the seat held by Phyllis Vetter. He thanked Mrs. Vetter for her service
on this Board. He read Executive Order No. 2012-EO-03.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to approve Executive Order No. 2012-EO-03. The motion carried with all
ayes.
Executive Order No. 2012-EO-04 – Re-Appointing Council Member Chris Reinersman
to the OKI Board of Directors
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Executive Order re-appointing Council
Member Reinersman to the OKI Board of Directors. He thanked Council Member
Reinersman for agreeing to represent the City on this Board for another year.
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2012-EO-04.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to approve Executive Order No. 2012-EO-04. The motion carried with all
ayes.
Executive Order No. 2012-EO-05 – Appointing Representatives to the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Council
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council an Executive Order that would designate
himself as the primary representative on the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Council and Council Member Yeager as his alternate representative. He advised
the Area Planning Council is primarily made up of the local Mayors and their
alternates and the main function of the Council to adopt and oversee the budget
for the Planning Commission.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Little to approve Executive Order No. 2012-EO-05. The motion carried with all
ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Refunding of the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt with a Four-Year
Note – 1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for consideration a proposed ordinance that
would authorize the refinancing of the principal balance of Series 1998 general
obligation improvement bonds. He advised Council that the City approached
several local banks to solicit proposals for a four year fixed interest rate to
refinance the remaining principal balance of the Fowler Creek Sewer debt which
is approximately $2,400,000. He stated that seven banks submitted quotes with
US Bank proposing a four year note with a fixed interest rate of 0.94%. He
stated this is much lower than the current interest which is over 4%, which
will save the City around $240,000 in interest and knock four years off the
life of the loan. He stated the new note would pay off this debt by May 1,
2016. A brief discussion ensued. Mr. Groth advised that the City will have to
provide the Bank of New York, who holds the current note, thirty days notice
advising that we will be paying off the loan. He stated if Council decides to
move forward in authorizing the refinancing of this debt he would recommend a
second reading of the ordinance this month. Mayor Moriconi advised that time is
of the essence in locking in the interest rate proposed by US Bank. There was a
brief discussion regarding a special council meeting next week with Council
Members stating they would be available to attend on Monday, December 10th at
6:00 p.m.
There being no further discussion Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth stated he did not have anything to report.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report on this evening.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor Moriconi advised the City had an excellent turnout for the annual
Christmas Walk held on Saturday. He thanked the many volunteers that make this
event such a success, especially the Independence business community. He
advised he has received some good feedback which will be helpful for future
planning of the event.
There being no further business before the Council, and this being the last
meeting of the year, Mayor Moriconi advised he would swear in the newly re-
elected Council Members for the 2013-2014 term.
Swearing In of the Newly Re-Elected Council Members
Mayor Moriconi swore in five members of Council for the 2013-2014 term. The
following incumbents re-elected to the City Council took the Oath of Office:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager. Mayor
Moriconi stated Council Member Franzen was also re-elected, but was not present
at this meeting to take the Oath of Office. He stated he would swear her in
before January.
Adjournment
There being no further business, Council Member Bushong moved to adjourn the
meeting, seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:26 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 10, 2012
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Monday, December 10, 2012 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christian J. Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Jim Bushong gave
the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Council Member Mike Little was absent. Also present was City Attorney
Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Moriconi welcomed everyone and announced this Special meeting of Council
was being held to discuss and take action on one business item:
·   Ordinance No. 2012-O-17 – Authorizing the Issuance of General Obligation
Refunding Notes, Series 2013 in the Aggregate Principal Amount of $2,400,000 to
Refund the Outstanding Principal Amount of Bonds, Series 1998, for the
Refinancing of the Fowler Creek Sewer Debt – 2nd Reading
·   Executive Session (if necessary)
Ordinance No. 2012-O-17 – Authorizing the Issuance of General Obligation
Refunding Notes, Series 2013, in the Aggregate Principal Amount of $2,400,000
to Currently Refund the Outstanding Principal Amount of the Series 1998 General
Obligation Improvement Bonds (Refinance of Fowler Creek Sewer Debt) - 2nd
Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2012-O-
17 that will authorize the refinancing of the Fowler Creek Sewer debt in the
principal amount of $2,400,000. He stated the City has secured a 0.94% fixed
interest rate with US Bank for a term of 4 years that will enable this debt to
be paid off by May 1, 2016. He advised the current interest rate for this debt
is over 4% with a payoff date in 2021. Mayor Moriconi stated it was a good
thing to be able to get such a low fixed interest rate that will allow this
debt to be paid off in the next 3 ½ years and save approximately $240,000 in
interest. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2012-O-17. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Adjournment
Mayor Moriconi advised there was no need to call an executive session and there
being no further business on the agenda he asked for a motion to adjourn.
Council Member Franzen moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Council Member
Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting ended at 6:06 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2013 Minutes
January 7, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
7, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Chris Reinersman and Donna Yeager.
Council Member Mike Little was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K.
Deters.
Approval of the December 3, 2012 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, December 3, 2012. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second by Council Member Reinersman. There being no amendments; roll was called
and answered with four ayes and one abstention cast by Council Member Franzen.
Motion carried 4-1.
Approval of the December 10, 2012 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the Special
meeting held on Monday, December 10, 2012. Council Member Bushong so moved,
with second by Council Member Franzen. There being no amendments, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Presentation of the Updated Comprehensive Plan “Direction 2030” by Andy
Videkovich, Senior Planner with NKAPC
Andy Videkovich presented to Council and Mayor Moriconi a draft copy of the
statement of goals and objectives which will serve as a foundation for the all-
new Comprehensive Plan for Kenton County. He advised that per K.R.S. the Plan
is to be updated every five years and since the original Plan foundation was
drafted forty years ago the Planning Commission determined that the Plan needed
a complete re-write. He stated a project team was formed that included a
planning task force and a technical task force. Mr. Videkovich stated that the
Comprehensive Plan provides policy guidelines for all of Kenton County to meet
the diverse needs of the entire county. Therefore, the Plan should be viewed
from a big-picture perspective and the guiding principles and goals that have
been drafted would be appropriate on an area-wide basis.
Mr. Videkovich stated the Plan draft is being submitted to get the City’s
input, such as how the goals can be strengthened, before being presented for a
final review and adoption. He advised that the Kenton County Planning
Commission will review the proposed Plan in April and forward their
recommendation to the cities in the county for final action which much occur
within ninety days of the Planning Commission’s recommendation. He stated if
the City takes no action within the ninety days the recommendation by the
Planning Commission become final.
Mr. Videkovich advised the goals and objectives of the proposed Plan were
drafted using three guiding principles: 1) public input, 2) economic
considerations (which would be relevant regardless of the economic climate) and
3) goal relationships – realizing that all goal categories are intricately
connected and impact one another. He stated the Plan identifies seven goals
with broad-based objectives for each goal. The seven goal categories are:
mobility, healthy communities, natural systems, health, economy, community
identity and governance. Mr. Videkovich stated that it will be easier to
address the goals and objectives now, in draft form, before it is presented in
final form by the Planning Commission in a few months.
A lengthy discussion ensued. Mayor Moriconi questioned the verbiage and
suggested it could be difficult to interpret in its current format. He
suggested it be written in a manner that is easy to understand by people
without planning degrees. Mr. Videkovich addressed the Mayor and Council Member
concerns and questions. Regarding the goal of expanding/enhancing the
effectiveness of the transportation system, he advised that members of the task
force included transportation employees, and while the State has their own
public process for road improvements, transportation issues are inter-related
with land-use and could affect land-use discussions. He stated that NKAPC is
not involved in the road improvements planned for SR536. Mayor Moriconi stated
he wanted to be sure that the Plan would be business friendly. Mr. Videkovich
advised that the HBA (Homebuilders Association) has been very involved in the
process, has closely reviewed the draft and provided feedback. He stated that
it has been the desire of every community that the Plan be business friendly
and since the goals and objectives are broad-based this should not impede
business development in any community. Mr. Videkovich advised that Kenton
County is lacking industrial land uses for warehouses, manufacturing and
distribution and while it may not be relative to Independence it is to other
areas in the county. New areas for this type of land use would have to be
identified for possible rezoning. Council Member Reinersman commented that this
is something that is definitely on the OKI Board’s radar, areas such as Taylor
Mill along Locust Pike along the rail yards.
Regarding the goal of encouraging cooperative governance, Mayor Moriconi
commented that it makes sense to work toward removing barriers, sharing
services and removing duplication of services. Mr. Videkovich stated this is
already occurring as some cities have shared policing.
In closing, Mr. Videkovich advised Council that their feedback is desired, and
that all comments/suggestions will be accepted until February 28, 2013. Mayor
Moriconi thanked Mr. Videkovich for the presentation.
General Discussion Regarding Imposing a Toll to Help Fund the New Brent Spence
Bridge
Mayor Moriconi introduced Alan Daly who requested time to address Council
regarding a proposal by Kentucky and Ohio governments to impose a toll to help
fund the construction of a new Brent Spence bridge (over the Ohio river
connecting Covington and Cincinnati).
Alan Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence – addressed Council regarding
his opposition to impose a toll for the Brent Spence bridge project. He stated
he feels they already pay a lot of state and federal taxes and a toll would
just be another tax, the majority of which would be collected by the State of
Ohio. He stated many citizens in Northern Kentucky cross the bridge each day
for work and a toll would be an added burden and have an adverse affect on the
vitality of a growing community. Mr. Daly submitted a Resolution that would
support the opposition of this proposed toll and requested that the City
Council adopt this Resolution. Mayor Moriconi read the Resolution summary to
the Council and commented that he tends to agree that imposing a toll is not
the answer for funding the new bridge.
Council Member Bushong asked if the Mayor’s Group has discussed this issue.
Mayor Moriconi advised the Group has discussed it in the past but it is now
coming to the forefront on their agenda.
Mr. Daly reported there is a group that wants the bridge project to be a
public/private partnership. He questioned the legality of such a partnership
being permitted to impose a toll charge. He stated the federal government
collects $67,000,000 per day from the gasoline tax. Council Member Franzen
commented that in her opinion an interstate highway should be financed with
federal funds. She stated she is not sure why Ohio and Kentucky are taking on
the challenge of financing this project. She commented that toll areas are
always congested and this is already a highly congested area. In response to
Mr. Daly’s point that the majority of the bridge cost was being spent in Ohio,
Councilmember Reinersman commented this was likely due to much higher land
acquisition costs on the Ohio side. Mr. Daly commented that the current bridge
is not unsafe, just obsolete.
Carol Halpin, 10326 Limerick Circle, Independence – commented that if a car
goes through without paying the toll an electronic camera will take a photo of
the license plate and the offender will be billed for the toll charge. Mayor
Moriconi stated there is also a cost associated with that. Council Member
Yeager stated she remembers seeing a design that had a toll-free exit for work
commuters to and from Cincinnati.
In closing, Mayor Moriconi advised Mr. Daly he would distribute the Resolution
he submitted to Council for their consideration and possible action at the
February meeting.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the closing of the refinancing of the Fowler Creek
Sewer debt is scheduled for January 22, 2013. He reminded them the City is
refinancing with US Bank with a 4-year fixed interest rate of 0.94% with no
penalty for an early payoff.
Mr. Groth advised Council that when the City switched to the new curbside trash
containers program in July 2012 it created some displeasure with the residents
regarding large items that do not fit in the container, fall leaf pickup, etc.
The Rumpke driver will not take anything that is not placed in the containers
provided by Rumpke, which has caused some inconvenience to the residents. He
stated that Rumpke is willing to address the complaints that have surfaced over
the last several months and would like to meet with staff, along with a few
involved Council Members, to discuss some possible resolutions to large item
pickup, annual leaf pickup, etc. Council Members Bushong and Franzen
volunteered to meet with Rumpke in an effort to find some resolutions to the
complaints.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he had nothing to report.
MAYOR’S REPORT – Christian J. Moriconi
Presentation of the Audit ending June 30, 2012 – Mayor Moriconi presented to
Council the annual audit for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. He advised
there are no red flags and suggested they look it over and if they would like
the auditor to come to a future meeting to let him know or if they have any
questions they can be directed to the finance director or city administrator.
Executive Order No. 2013-EO-01 – Appointing David Cain to the Senior Center
Board
Mayor Moriconi read Executive Order No. 2013-EO-01 appointing David Cain to the
Senior Center Board of Directors. He stated this appointment would replace
outgoing Board Member Ray Hardebeck.
State Route 536
Mayor Moriconi advised Council that an important topic of discussion in the
coming years will be the road improvements to State Route 536. He advised that
he has invited representatives of the State Transportation Department, District
6 Director Rob Hans and Bob Yeager, to next month’s meeting to discuss this
road project, specifically to address concerns with the nine turnabouts planned
along a four mile section, all located in Independence. He commented that it
seems like quite a few roundabouts in a short span of roadway and that he is
not opposed to roundabouts, as they are beneficial in certain areas, but nine
within four miles seems excessive. He stated this road and the planned
improvements is a big deal as it is a highly traveled, major east/west corridor
for the City.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Reinersman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:03 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
February 4, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
4, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J.
Moriconi presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the January 7, 2013 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, January 7, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen. Council Member Reinersman requested an
amendment to the third paragraph on page three. There being no objection to the
change; the minutes were corrected as requested and roll was called and
answered with five ayes and one abstention cast by Council Member Little.
Motion carried.
Discussion Regarding Road Improvement Plans for State Route 536
Mayor Moriconi introduced Rob Hans, Transportation Cabinet, District 6 Chief
Engineer and Bob Yeager, District 6 Project Development Manager whom he invited
to talk about the planned road improvements for SR 536.
Mr. Yeager distributed to Council new maps of the proposed improvements to the
536 corridor. The improvement area runs from SR25 in Boone County to the new
SR17. He advised that the 536 corridor is a part of the 2000 study. He advised
that traffic on this roadway is expected to double in future years which will
allow travelers to get to the interstate as quickly as possible. He stated they
are currently in the process of acquiring right of way in this four mile
stretch of road, as well as another mile along Turkeyfoot Road. He stated the
two biggest changes will be access management to control through traffic and
separate the east and west lanes. Mr. Yeager advised that roundabouts will be
positioned every 1500 feet or so to prohibit left turns which will
significantly reduce the number of fatal collisions as most accidents occur at
intersections with left turns. He stated they can be confusing for a driver
that has never driven them before but the drivers will quickly learn how to
maneuver through them efficiently. Mr. Yeager went on to say that roundabouts
are better than typical intersections and no worse where you have to wait to
pull out into traffic. He stated the advantage of this type of traffic flow is
important in addressing safety concerns. He said that for the City there is an
advantage of being able to landscape the roundabout area. He stated that a
roundabout is planned for every existing intersection for this area of roadway.
Mr. Yeager advised that roundabouts could be eliminated but the idea is to
increase the flow of traffic which is accomplished with the use of roundabouts.
He advised that roads are designed to move forward twenty years into the future
and controlling access management is a big part of managing the flow of traffic
and it is always safer making a right hand turn.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the Turkeyfoot Road interchange would have a
roundabout. Mr. Yeager responded that the Turkeyfoot interchange would be a
conventional intersection not a roundabout. Council Member Bushong asked how
the proposed roundabouts would compare to the one near the Northern Kentucky
University in Campbell County. Mr. Yeager advised the roundabout near the
University is smaller, only one lane wide, and that the proposed roundabouts on
536 are two lanes wide providing a better angle moving to the right.
Council Member Bushong asked if the I-75 interchange with Mt. Zion Road and
through to Dixie Highway would be part of this road improvement. Mr. Yeager
advised this design phase for 536 would encompass just this side of Dixie
Highway (SR25) and that they are currently in the next design phase for the I-
75 interchange through to U.S.42 in Union.
Mayor Moriconi asked the cost of this project. Mr. Yeager advised that the cost
is $20,000,000 for the right of way acquisitions and $20,000,000 for the
construction phase of the project. Mayor Moriconi asked if the roundabout
mediums would be raised to allow for landscaping in the center. Mr. Yeager
responded yes, with curb and gutter sections 14 feet which will accommodate
small trees or bushes.
Mayor Moriconi pointed out there are nine proposed roundabouts along this four
mile stretch of roadway and asked if this number could be reduced. Mr. Yeager
advised that anything is possible but this would require modification to the
right of way plans and would be taking steps backward to modify the plan.
Council Member Little asked the speed limit on the roadway and how much of an
increase in traffic has been projected. Mr. Yeager advised the speed limit
would be 45 mph with a decreased speed in the roundabouts which would be 20-25
mph. He also advised that the current 6,000 to 10,000 cars per day would
increase to 12,000 to 25,000 over the next 15-20 years. He stated that this
roadway would probably see additional development of homes and businesses along
with the increased through traffic. Council Member Little also expressed some
concern about a two-lane roundabout. Mr. Yeager advised that the traffic would
stay to the right to exit, just like you would exit an interstate. Council
Member Little commented that he liked the entry angle which is an improvement
from what he has seen elsewhere. Mr. Yeager commented that design plan
eliminates all points of contact, straightens sections of the road and provides
better sight distance. Council Member Reinersman remarked that the slower
speeds at the roundabouts could actually take longer to get across the new
roadway.
Mayor Moriconi asked if the section of SR536 going through Boone County has any
roundabouts. Mr. Yeager advised that two roundabouts are planned for that
section of SR536.
Council Member Yeager asked why more roundabouts aren’t planned for the
sections of SR536 running through Boone and Campbell counties. Mr. Yeager
advised this is partially due to the growth in the Independence area and
knowing that this section of the 536 corridor will be heavily traveled. He
stated this is an area which provided more potential to take a more pro-active
approach in their design in implementing more safety features.
Mayor Moriconi asked how long it would be before the construction phase of the
project would begin. Mr. Yeager advised that acquiring property for the right
of ways is a two year process. He stated they have 20+ relocations and a total
of 180 parcels to be accommodated. He said that optimistically there is a three
to four year minimum before they begin the actual construction.
Mr. Yeager reviewed the map with the Council pointing out the locations of the
nine planned roundabouts. The following are the roundabout locations planned
along SR 536 where they intersect with:
   ·   Sigmon Lane
   ·   Bristow Villages Development
   ·   KY 1303
   ·   Falcon Ridge/Hogrefe Road
   ·   Ky 2043/Banklick Road
   ·   Williamswoods Rd/Calvary Road
   ·   Ky 2045 (Independence Road)
   ·   Old KY 536 Access
   ·   Delaware Crossing
Senator Damon Thayer, who serves on the Interim Joint Committee on Local
Government, addressed Council regarding the SR536 road improvements. He
commented that he appreciates the efforts of District 6, and he is not a road
engineer, but a vessel for citizen concerns. He stated that the reconstruction
of 536 has conceptually been on the books for a number of years and while there
are topographical challenges, that span three counties, it will provide access
to the interstate. He stated he is familiar with the need to reconstruct this
corridor, and the State has been able to allocate funds in the budget to begin
the project. He stated he has been approached by some of his constituents who
have brought concerns regarding the nine roundabouts to his attention. He
stated if the concerns persist he will bring this to the attention of Mike
Hancock (Secretary of the Transportation Cabinet) or other appropriate people
who oversee the State road projects. Senator Thayer went on to say that this
area is still fairly rural and the reconstruction of 536 will open up this
area. He stated he has worked with District 6 for ten years and they do a great
job. He stated the roundabouts are fairly new in Kentucky and there has been a
little pushback because the concept is so new. He stated District 6 proposes
the project be completed in two year cycles and it will not be ready for
construction for a few years. He stated he would make every attempt to get the
construction funds in the Governor’s 2014 budget, about a year from now.
In closing, Senator Thayer commented that before moving forward, it should be
certain that the roundabouts planned for the Independence stretch of 536 is not
an experiment. He stated that access to I-75 is critical for travelers and with
the increased population of this area he will continue to fight for the gas
taxes to be returned via road project funding for the area.
Mayor Moriconi also expressed his appreciation for the great relationship with
the District 6 representatives. He stated his satisfaction with the design of
other State road projects in the City. He stated he hopes to partner with
District 6 on a bridge over Shaw Road to Simon Kenton High School. Council
Member Franzen stated the school’s parking lot is at capacity and the students
overflow parking is at the Kroger Town Center lot. Mr. Rob Hans stated they
would look at a design for a bridge during the next phase.
Council Member Brinker asked if the roundabouts would be lighted. Mr. Yeager
commented that roundabouts would have adequate lighting.
Mayor Moriconi asked how citizens could contact the Highway Department
regarding this project. Mr. Yeager advised anyone could call their offices at
859-341-2700
Mayor Moriconi thanked Senator Thayer for attending the meeting and assistance
with the citizens concerns regarding the reconstruction of 536. Senator Thayer
advised he could be reached at damon.thayer@lrc.ky.gov or by calling 502-564-
2450.
Discussion Regarding the Reconstruction Plans for the Brent Spence Bridge (I-
75)
Rob Hans, Chief Engineer for Kentucky Highway Department District 6, provided
Council with an update on the plans for the reconstruction of the Brent Spence
Bridge (I-75) which spans the Ohio River between Covington and Cincinnati. He
reported the District has been working on the engineering feasibility study for
the I-71/I-75 corridor for two years. He stated the preliminary engineering
stage was completed the summer of 2012 with the purpose of the study to address
issues such as improved safety, improved traffic flow, correct geometric
deficiencies and maintain connections to key regional and national
transportation corridors.
Mr. Hans stated they are trying to improve the congestion aspect for commuters,
as they incur costs while sitting in traffic, and also improve connection
points.
Mr. Hans advised the study area is 3.21 square miles, a length of 7.8 miles
with Kentucky section being 5.1 miles (or 53% of the project area) and Ohio
section being 2.7 miles (of 47% of the project area). He stated the bridge
length is 1,736.5 feet (4% of the project area).
Mr. Hans advised this section of the I-75 corridor, a federal highway, is
traveled by 172,000 cars per day with $417,000,000,000 in freight connecting
ten states. He stated a preferred alternative would be a configuration of the
bridge with six lanes in each direction, including the cut-in-the-hill on I-75
south.
Mr. Hans advised the estimated construction costs of the bridge in today’s
economy would be $2,700,000,000, but with inflationary costs that would
increase if the project was delayed for years. He advised that currently they
are projecting a planned project start date of 2015. He stated they began last
year to evaluate the financing options to move the project forward as delaying
the project will only increase the construction costs. Mr. Hans advised they
hope to have final results in April of this year. Mr. Hans advised that the
traditional way to finance a federal highway project would be an 80%
contribution from the federal funds and 20% State funds. He stated that the
alternative funding options would come from public and private sectors. He
stated the public sector would assume operations and maintenance costs and
finance and capital costs. He stated the private entity would take care of
maintenance costs. He stated all options are being evaluated to determine the
best option to move the project forward. He stated Ohio and Kentucky
partnership will review the options. He said that at this time they don’t know
the amount of a potential toll cost. Mr. Hans stated that the initial findings
will be revealed in mid-February as well as their ongoing outreach and
education efforts. He stated that ultimately they have two options: 1) proceed
with the construction project in a timely manner or 2) not move forward with
the project.
After Mr. Hans presentation, there was a question and answer session. Regarding
his opinion on the use of tolls, Mr. Hans stated there was no other way to move
the project forward without funding from tolls. He stated that he hears
comments that this is a federal highway project that should be funded by the
federal government, but the federal funds are distributed to each State every
year and then the States determine the use of the funds. He advised that it
would take over two years of the entire State budget for this project alone
leaving no funds for other projects in the State. He went on to say that Ohio
does not have available funds to move forward on this project.
When asked if the Fifth Street exit in Covington would be eliminated, he
responded the reconstruction plan would revise the movement on I-71/I-75
corridor. He stated the new design would provide a new collective-distributor
access for the 12th Street, Pike Street and 9th Street exits. Once entering the
collective-distributor the driver would make the appropriate exit decision from
that distributor lane. He said the same collective-distributor concept would be
utilized in the southbound lanes.
When Council Member Bushong asked what would be done with the old bridge, Mr.
Hans advised the current bridge would stay in service as the structure is
sufficient for rehabilitation. He stated the newly reconstructed bridge will
allow traffic to flow using three separate corridors.
Mayor Moriconi asked how the national legislators and legislators from Ohio and
Kentucky stand on the issue of tolls. Senator Thayer commented that both
governors from Ohio and Kentucky have voiced their position. He asked Mr. Hans
how much Kentucky has spent on this project thus far. Mr. Hans advised that
Kentucky has allocated $36,000,000 on the project design of which $20,000,000
has been spent on the preliminary phases.
When asked if the State would need to get permission from the federal
government to work on this bridge, Mr. Hans advised that the federal government
has oversight of design and they have to give their approval. Senator Thayer
advised that the State of Kentucky receives a half billion dollars each year
from the federal gas taxes collected by the federal government. Mr. Hans
advised that the federal government does not provide the State extra funds when
there is a special project such as this and added that no major projects are
solely funded with federal dollars. Mr. Yeager commented that Kentucky gets
about 97% of the amount of gas taxes paid each year. Unless there is a large
gas tax increase the State knows the amount of funding that the federal
government will send each year.
Council Member Reinersman commented that the federal legislators no longer
earmark funds for special projects. He stated there is a set formula for how
the funds from the gas taxes are disbursed each year.
Mr. Hans advised that the project study results will be presented in April of
this year. He stated they will make a presentation to OKI Board of Directors
Executive Committee on February 14th and the Kenton County Fiscal Court on
February 19th.
Mr. Hans stated that typically tolls fund about fifty percent of the project
costs, but right now all options are on the table as they begin looking at
alternative financing. He stated that if tolls are used, they could stay in
place forever, but there is nothing to say it couldn’t be a shorter period of
time.
In response to the Mayor’s question about the current reconstruction being cost
prohibitive and scaling the project down to make it more affordable, Mr. Hans
stated he is aware of a bridge in Louisville that was scaled back and lanes
added. He stated they looked at that for this project but the river crossing is
a problem. He stated that in scaling down they would have to look at cost
versus benefit and if those dollars would be spent wisely by scaling down.
Regarding the tolls, Mr. Hans advised that the State entity would be
responsible for setting parameters for tolls and who would collect the tolls.
The State would use the tolls fees to pay back the private investors, or the
private builders of the bridge could collect their own toll fees.
When asked if legislation would be required from Kentucky to move forward with
this project, Senator Thayer replied yes.
Mr. Hans responded to the question about other bridge options for commuters to
downtown Cincinnati. He advised that if tolls are implemented traffic could
divert to other road systems. He said the I-471 bridge is currently over
capacity and he advised there are alternatives but they could potentially cause
user delays costing time and money to the user. He stated they will begin
marketing this project to educate the citizens about some misconceptions he is
hearing. He stated he has heard toll booths cause congestion, but it will not
be necessary to stop at a booth as commuters will have the option to purchase a
transponder devise that will deduct the toll fee out of your bank account, or a
bill can be mailed to you for the use of the corridor.
There being no further questions, Mayor Moriconi thanked Mr. Hans for attending
the meeting to provide information about this Brent Spence Bridge project.
Mayor Moriconi advised Council there is a proposed resolution in their packet
that opposes the use of tolls to fund the reconstruction of the Brent Spence
Bridge. Council Member Reinersman commented that he has come to the conclusion
that it is a bit premature to act on this resolution at this time. He stated it
is a big issue that needs further consideration so that an informed stand can
be taken.
Council Member Reinersman made a motion to table taking action on the proposed
resolution opposing the use of tolls to fund the reconstruction of the Brent
Spence Bridge until the value for money study is presented. Council Member
Little seconded the motion. Council Member Bushong commented that he did not
feel this had a major bearing from Independence on this bridge project. Council
Member Franzen stated she did not favor the use of tolls as she feels this is
just one more thing the middle class has to pay for. She stated she also felt
that, as Council Members, we represent the citizens in Independence that use
the bridge to commute to work each day and we needed to be their voice on this
issue. Council Member Little stated he also did not like the use of tolls to
fund the project. Council Member Brinker commented that he feels this project
is the responsibility of the federal government and they should step forward,
which they won’t do if private, State and toll fees are being put forth to fund
the project. Council Member Little asked Mr. Hans when the financing proposal
would be released. Mr. Hans advised that it would be released at the end of
April and will include recommendations on the most likely way to fund the
project, cost estimate, etc.
There being no further discussion on the motion to table adoption of the
resolution opposing the use of tolls to fund the bridge project, roll was
called and answered with three ayes cast by Council Members Reinersman, Little
and Bushong and three nays cast by Council Members Franzen, Yeager and Brinker.
Mayor Moriconi broke the tie by casting a no vote. Motion to table the
resolution was defeated 4-3.
Resolution Number 2013-R-01 – Opposing the Use of Tolls to Fund the
Reconstruction of the Brent Spence Bridge
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen to adopt Resolution No. 2013-R-01
that would support the opposition of the use of imposing tolls to fund the
reconstruction of the Brent Spence Bridge. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Yeager. Mr. Deters read Resolution Number 2013-R-01. Roll was called and
answered with four ayes by Council Members Franzen, Yeager, Little and Brinker,
one no vote cast by Council Member Bushong and Council Member Reinersman
abstained from voting. Motion carried.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that a meeting has been scheduled with Rumpke
representatives to discuss some complaint issues and the collection of large
items. He stated that Council Members Franzen and Bushong have volunteered to
attend this meeting with him and City staff members.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he needed to request an executive session to discuss pending
litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor stated he did not have anything to report.
Executive Session
At 9:07 p.m. Council Member Little moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 10:00 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Directive to City Attorney Regarding the Collection of Delinquent Fowler Creek
Assessments
Council Member Franzen made a motion to direct the City Attorney to proceed
with the collection of the delinquent Fowler Creek Sewer Assessment using other
legal means than foreclosure at this time. Motion was seconded by Council
Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
Authorizing the Mayor to Proceed with the Demolition of 60 McMillian Drive
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to authorize the Mayor to proceed with the demolition of 60 McMillan
Drive. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Brinker to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 10:02 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 4, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 4,
2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the February 4, 2013 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, February 4, 2013. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Reinersman. No amendments were noted, roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried.
Request by Kary Shankar to Amend Zoning Ordinance to Add Indoor Storage
Facilities to the List of Permitted Uses in the NSC Zone
Mr. Kary Shankar presented to Council his plans to repurpose the building he
owns in the Cherokee Plaza at 6463 Taylor Mill Road. He advised the building
currently houses his medical billing business along with Great Clips, The
Learning Center daycare and Pizza Hut. He stated the medical billing business
will be downsizing and the other three tenants will remain in their locations.
He stated he would like to repurpose the majority of the building space to
house interior rental storage units. He distributed a handout that showed
photos of the building site as well as photos of the type of storage units he
would like to construct. Mr. Shankar also showed Council slides of the internal
structure of the individual units. He stated he is proposing a design that
would place 102 units on the ground floor and 170 smaller units on the second
floor. He stated a freight elevator would also be installed in the building. He
advised there would be two entrances into the building with the access for
trucks being from Cox Road.
Mayor Moriconi asked if there would be changes to the exterior of the building.
Mr. Shankar stated that all the changes would be to the interior – no exterior
alterations.
A discussion ensued. Mr. Deters advised that if Council decided to support this
zoning text amendment, an application would be made to the Kenton County
Planning Commission and their recommendation would be sent to the City for
final action. He advised that any text amendment would not just apply to this
building but would apply to all NSC zones in the city. Zoning Administrator
Annie Wuestefeld advised that the City has three NSC zones, those being the
Cherokee Shopping Center, Beechgrove Shopping Center and the Towne Center.
Council Member Reinersman expressed concern in supporting a text amendment that
would allow this type of business as a permitted use which would apply city-
wide. He suggested the text amendment should be to add it as a conditional use
that would be reviewed by the Board of Adjustment and decided on a case by case
basis. He commented that if the Council preferred to make this a permitted use
in the NSC zone he would want to also add text putting conditions on the
permitted use – conditions such as hours of operation, etc. Mr. Deters advised
the Board of Adjustment has the leeway to explore and impose conditional uses
when it is only allowed as a conditional use.
Resolution No. 2013-R-02 – Supporting a Zoning Text Amendment Application that
would Add Interior Storage Facilities as a Conditional Use in the NSC Zones
Council Member Reinersman made a motion to support a zoning text amendment
application that would add “interior storage facilities” as a conditional use
in the NSC zones, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2011-O-18 Flood Plain Regulations –
1st Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would amend the
current flood plain regulations that were adopted in 2011 by Ordinance No.
2011-O-18. He advised the purpose of this amendment is to adopt the updated
flood map that identifies the areas of special flood hazard by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for
Kenton County. Mr. Deters advised this amendment to the current ordinance would
bring the City into compliance. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced the annual Easter Egg Hunt would take place on Saturday,
March 23rd at Noon at Memorial Park.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he needed to request an executive session to discuss pending
litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor stated he, along with the Public Works Director and Mr. Charlie Deters,
met with the State Highway representatives to inspect Declaration Drive,
specifically the section which is the current Kroger egress. He stated they
discussed widening the one lane to three to improve the flow of traffic. He
stated he has received some complaints about this section of roadway and would
like to be proactive in resolving the traffic issues in this area before the
opening of the new Kroger Marketplace this summer. Council Member Little and
Yeager commented they have also heard complaints about the traffic flow in this
busy area. Council Member Yeager commented that the area should have a 4-way
stop. Mayor Moriconi advised this was too close to the lighted traffic signal
on Madison Pike and would therefore not be conducive to good traffic flow.
Executive Session
At 7:23 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:43 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:44 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Christian J. Moriconi, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 1, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 1,
2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christian J. Moriconi
presiding. Mayor Moriconi called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Presentation of Award to City Administrator Dan Groth
David Plummer, Campbell County Solid Waste Coordinator addressed Council by
saying that Independence City Administrator Dan Groth recently resigned from
the Northern Kentucky Technical Advisory Committee after twenty years of
service to the organization. He stated this is a committee of the Northern
Kentucky Solid Waste Management District that was formed in 1993 to advise the
Governing Body of the Northern Kentucky Solid Waste Management Area during the
preparation and implementation of their Solid Waste Management Plan. He stated
that Mr. Groth was a founding member of the Committee. He presented Mr. Groth
with a plaque in recognition of his efforts, dedication and outstanding
service.
Proclamation – Simon Kenton High School Bowling Team Champs
Mayor Moriconi presented a Proclamation to the students of the Simon Kenton
High School Bowling Team for their efforts in winning the 2012-2013 KHSAA High
School Boys State championship.
Approval of the March 4, 2013 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Moriconi called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, March 4, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second by Council Member Reinersman. No amendments were noted, roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-01 – Amending Flood Plain Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Moriconi presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2013-O-01 amending
the flood plain regulations for the City. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a
second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-01. There was no discussion on the
motion. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Award Bid for Ready Mixed Concrete for Various Public Works Projects for the
Fiscal Year July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014
Mayor Moriconi advised Council the Public Works Department does many in-house
concrete projects during the course of the year and it was suggested the City
solicit bids for the supply of ready mixed concrete for the various street
repair projects. He presented to Council the two bids the City received - one
from Ernst Concrete and the other from All-Rite Ready Mix. Mr. Groth commented
the City was able to get a better price by putting it out to bid. Mayor
Moriconi stated this would fulfill the bidding requirements if a small project
would unexpectedly near the bidding requirement threshold and the City would
then be able to proceed with the additional work without interruption. Public
Works Crew leader Dan Koch concurred that awarding this bid for prices that
would be contracted for the entire year would cover the City with regard to the
State law that requires any project $20,000 or more to be put out for bid. Mr.
Koch recommended the City award the bid to Ernst Concrete. Mr. Groth advised
that Ernst Concrete provided the best price per cubic yard of concrete. He
stated that All-Rite Ready Mix only submitted pricing for a six month term and
the bid specifications were for a twelve month term beginning July 1, 2013
through June 30, 2014.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to award the ready-mix concrete contract to Ernest Concrete as the best
bid. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex Approximately 58.990 Acres on the Easterly
Side of the Relocated State Route 17, South of Maple Tree Lane and North of
Taylor Mill Road at its Intersection with State Route 17
Mayor Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would state the
City’s intention to annex the east side of the new, relocated SR17, south of
Maple Tree Lane to the intersection of Taylor Mill Road. He stated that the
proposal to annex this area along SR17 is an attempt to get ahead of any future
development along that stretch of roadway that would impact the City. He stated
this area has some large tracts of land that could be commercially developed
which would increase traffic coming through the City. Mr. Groth commented that
only the east side of SR17 would be annexed as it posed the least opposition
from the property owners. Council Member Bushong asked if the houses on Maple
Tree were part of this proposal. Mayor Moriconi stated no houses on Maple Tree
were in the annexation area, but there is a church and a nursing home. Mayor
Moriconi advised there is a portion of the street right-of-way that would also
be annexed. Council Member Reinersman commented that the parcels in the
annexation area are prime development land. Mayor Moriconi stated any future
development of these parcels would be advantageous for the City in terms of
future occupational licenses and associated taxes. He also commented that since
SR17 is maintained by the State, the City would not be taking on any road
maintenance with this annexation.
Council Member Brinker asked if the residents of the nursing home would have a
vote in the annexation. Mr. Deters stated he did not think as he believes the
tenants of a nursing home would be similar to that of a hotel, wherein the
occupants are considered transients.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave the proposed intent to annex
ordinance a first reading
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported Mayor and City staff were working on the budget for the
2013-2014 fiscal year and would meet again next Thursday.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report but needed to request an
executive session to discuss pending litigation.
Mayor’s Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mayor stated he did not have anything to report.
Executive Session
At 7:18 p.m. Council Member Yeager moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:10 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Reinersman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:12 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 18, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Thursday, April 18, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Vice-Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Vice-Mayor Yeager called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Jim Bushong gave
the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, Chris Reinersman
and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Administrator Dan Groth announced that Mayor Chris Moriconi has resigned
his position with the City to accept a position with the City of Fort Mitchell
as their City Administrator. He stated that in accordance with City ordinance
the Council Member with the highest number of votes in the last election shall
serve as Mayor Pro Tem and preside at the meetings in the Mayor’s absence.
Mayor Pro Tem Donna Yeager advised this Special meeting of Council was being
held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Accept the Resignation of Mayor Chris Moriconi
   ·   Discussion and Possible Action to Fill the Vacancy Created by the
Resignation of Mayor Moriconi
   ·   Swearing-In of a New Mayor (only in the event that a Council Member is
appointed to fill the unexpired mayoral term)
   ·   Possible Discussion and Action on Process to Fill a Vacant Council Seat
(only in the event that a Council Member is appointed to fill the unexpired
mayoral term)
   ·   Executive Session in accordance with KRS 61.810 (only if necessary)
Accept the Resignation of Mayor Chris Moriconi
Presiding Officer Yeager asked Council for a motion to regretfully accept the
resignation of Mayor Moriconi. Council Member Reinersman so moved, seconded by
Council Member Bushong.
Presiding Officer Yeager asked if there was any discussion. Each Council Member
took the opportunity to express to Mayor Moriconi (who was in the audience)
their heartfelt gratitude for his service to the City. Council Member Franzen
stated that it has been a pleasure serving the City along with him over the
last several years and thanked him for his service. Council Member Little
stated he has served five terms all under the administration of Mayor Moriconi
and that it has been a pleasure. He stated that he has appreciated him as an
individual as well as in his capacity of Mayor and that it has been a pleasure
working with him. Council Member Little went on to say that he found Mayor
Moriconi to be a person of good moral character which is hard to find in
today’s world and he has appreciated the opportunity to work with him. In
closing he stated that he felt the Mayor is leaving the City in good shape as
he did an awesome job with the City’s budget, which is a big part of running
the City. He stated he always appreciated the detailed budget information he
provided the Council.
Council Member Bushong recalled the year 2000 when they first served on Council
together. He stated he always appreciated Mayor Moriconi’s guidance and
companionship and everything he accomplished with Council over the last several
years. He wished him all the best in the future.
Council Member Reinersman commented that even though he is the new guy on the
Council he has known Mayor Moriconi for many years, but has gotten to know him
better in the last few years. He stated he has learned a great deal from him
under his administration and appreciated his guidance in learning the ropes. He
said when they disagreed on an issue he appreciated his willingness to work
through it and that they were able to respect one another’s opinion. He stated
it has been a privilege to work with Mayor Moriconi and as the Council
continues to work together for the good of the residents, he feels Mayor
Moriconi has set a standard for the Council in showing the value of working
together instead of working against one another and he is very appreciative of
that guidance and he will be missed a great deal.
Council Member Brinker stated he can’t imagine the City without Mayor
Moriconi’s leadership. He has done a great job and it shows in every modern
part of the City which occurred under his tenure which has made Independence a
great place to live. He thanked Mayor Moriconi for endurance and helping guide
the City and Council through this period of growth.
Presiding Officer Yeager commented that it is a great day for the City of Ft.
Mitchell, but a sad day for Independence. She expressed her appreciation for
all the help he gave her over the years and stated she will miss him a lot, but
teasingly added that she will be calling him.
Mayor Moriconi thanked everyone for their kind words. He stated the City is
bigger than any one person - as mayors come and go. He commented that the last
thirteen years have been some of the most challenging, productive, fun,
enjoyable and rewarding years for him, but when you like what you’re doing it
doesn’t feel like work. He stated that being a part of a team with the current
and previous members of Council it has been very rewarding, and overall,
together they have the City in good shape. He stated that Council is part of
the team and everyone deserves a lot of credit as well. He said that even
disagreements were handled with respect and politeness and they moved on and
remained friends which is part of how the elected officials of this City
gelled. He stated that at all times everyone was looking out for the City’s
best interest, with no personal agendas involved. He stated that he feels every
decision was taken very seriously, always asking ourselves how this decision
would impact the taxpayers of this City. He stated we haven’t been perfect over
the last thirteen years, but all in all, he thinks people are generally happy
with the services provided. He said that sometimes government can’t get
anything done, but as he drives through the City he feels we have accomplished
some great thing together. In closing, he commented that Council deserves
credit for the things accomplished over the last several years as well. He
stated that people think it is easy to sit up there, but when they get up
there, it is then that they realize there are limitations to what you can do.
He stated it is more work than people think, but it is rewarding and he enjoyed
his time as Mayor. He stated that when he thinks back, thirteen years ago when
he began his first term on Council, the City administration was operating out
of an old bank building, with the police department renting space on the second
floor of the Courthouse and the Council meetings held in Courthouse – it’s been
great - and you know what they say “don’t be sorry it’s over, be thankful it
happened.”
At this time, everyone rose to applaud Mayor Moriconi in appreciation for his
service to the City.
Presiding Officer Yeager called for a vote on the motion made by Council Member
Reinersman to accept the resignation of Mayor Moriconi. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Presiding Officer Yeager asked Mayor Moriconi to step forward and the Council
Members presented him with a plaque in recognition of his unselfish devotion,
outstanding leadership and distinguished service to the City of Independence.
Discussion and Possible Action to Fill the Vacancy Created by the Resignation
of Mayor Moriconi
Pro Tem Mayor Yeager advised the next agenda item was to discuss and possibly
take action to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Mayor Moriconi.
Council Member Little commented there is a lot of experience on Council,
hopefully all will be in agreement that filling this seat should come from
within the Council and I want to make a motion and part of a nomination to
nominate Donna Yeager. He stated he can’t think of anyone else with more
experience on Council or served the City, not to mention taking into account
the electorate, which she is the highest vote getter every election, he would
like to make the nomination and hopefully she will accept to fill the Mayor’s
vacancy until the end of the term. Council Member Franzen seconded the motion.
Council Member Yeager accepted the nomination. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Oath of Office - Swearing-In of a New Mayor
City Attorney Jed Deters administered the Oath of Office to Donna Yeager as the
City’s new Mayor, effective immediately.
Possible Discussion and Action on Process to Fill a Vacant Council Seat
Dan Groth stated the next point of business would be to discuss how to proceed
in filling Council Member Yeager’s seat on the Council.
Council Member Reinersman suggested putting the word out that anyone interested
in the position to submit a resume for consideration. He stated that since the
City is under a thirty day timeline to fill the position, he suggested the
resumes should be submitted in one week. Council Member Franzen commented that
during her tenure on Council she has been through this two times before and she
recalls that Council narrowed the candidates down to a few who would then be
interviewed in an executive session by the Council. She agreed that they do
need to move quickly and thought the open seat should be advertized in the
newspaper. Mr. Deters advised the City can advertise using any method they
desire. Council Member Reinersman expressed concern about the limited time
frame to fill the seat. Council Member Franzen agreed that resumes should be
submitted in the coming week and suggested an announcement be posted on the
City’s website and Facebook page. Council Member Reinersman concurred the City
should use all our available resources and then give a deadline of next week.
He suggested the resumes be submitted to them via email so they can immediately
begin the review process. Council discussed narrowing the number of candidates
that would be interviewed. Council Member Bushong stated he felt three would be
sufficient as did some of the other Members. Council Member Franzen suggested
narrowing down and the number to be granted an interview, and thought it may be
necessary to schedule a Special Meeting. Mr. Deters suggested it could be done
at the next regular meeting on May 6th. Council Member Little agreed that they
could conduct the interviews in executive session at that meeting. Mr. Groth
stated the deadline to appoint someone to the seat would be May 18th. Council
Member Reinersman agreed that a Special Meeting could be scheduled, if
necessary, after the May 6th meeting but sometime before May 18th. Council
agreed that Friday, April 26th at close of the business (4:30 p.m.) would be
the deadline to email or bring /mail resumes to City Clerk and she will forward
them to the Council Members. Council Member Reinersman commented that it
shouldn’t be decided on the number of applicants to interview at this time
until we see how many are submitted. Council Member Little suggested everyone
have several names to discuss at the meeting then decide on the three best
candidates to interview. Everyone concurred.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Bushong to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 6:23 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
_____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 6, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 6,
2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager presiding.
Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge of
Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, and Chris Reinersman. Also present was
City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Ratification of Mayoral Appointment & Oath of Office
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters advised Council that shortly before the start of
the special council meeting held on April 18, 2013 there was some concern
voiced that the meeting did not meet all the legal requirements. In order to
satisfy any lingering concerns, Mr. Deters suggested that Council ratify the
mayoral appointment of Donna Yeager and that the oath of office be administered
at this regular meeting.
Council Member Little made a motion to ratify the nomination and appointment of
Donna Yeager to fill the Mayor’s unexpired term. The motion was seconded by
Council member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0. Mr. Deters administered the oath of office to Donna Yeager.
Approval of the April 1, 2013 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, April 1, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Brinker. No amendments were noted, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Approval of the April 18, 2013 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Thursday, April 18, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
by Council Member Little. No amendments were noted, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-02 – Intent to Annex Approximately 58.990 Acres on the
Easterly Side of the Relocated SR17 South of Mapletree Lane and North of Taylor
Mill Road at the Intersection with the Relocated SR17 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2013-O-02
which would approve the City’s intent to annex approximately 58.990 acres on
the east side of the relocated SR17 just south of Mapletree Lane and north of
Taylor Mill Road (SR16) at the intersection with the relocated SR17. Mayor
Yeager opened the floor to audience members who wished to comment on this
proposal by the City.
Mr. Gailen Bridges addressed Council by advising he was legal counsel for the
owners of Regency Manor LLC. He stated his clients opposed the annexation as
there would be no advantage for them to be part of the City since they are
already receiving public services from the State highway for road maintenance,
police protection from the Kenton County police and fire protection from the
Independence Fire District. Mr. Bridges stated his clients operate a personal
care home with fifty-eight residents, half of which are registered voters. He
stated he believes they have enough residents to vote down the annexation. He
stated the Goodrich family is also in attendance at this meeting and they also
oppose the annexation.
There was a brief discussion about the residents of the Regency Manor and their
being able to vote on the annexation issue. Mr. Deters stated he is unable to
answer that definitively at this time. He advised that the residents and
property owners will have sixty days to file a petition with the Mayor
declaring their opposition to the annexation. Mr. Groth stated that if more
than fifty percent of the residents and property owners signed the petition
then the issue would be placed on the ballot in the next general election for a
formal vote on the annexation issue, which would require more than 55% opposing
the annexation in order to defeat it.
Council Member Reinersman stated he doesn’t see how the annexation would
adversely impact the property owners. He stated the City has some concerns that
any future development of the vacant parcels in that area would have a great
impact on the City and would therefore like to be proactive and involved in the
plans for any commercial development in order to protect the citizens in the
area.
Council Member Brinker commented there may be a savings to the residents in the
unincorporated area as the City does not collect an insurance premium tax. The
owner of the Regency Manor commented they have looked at the financial end and
have concluded City taxes would be more than the insurance premium taxes they
pay now and also their employees would end up paying City payroll taxes.
Council Member Franzen suggested that the Regency Manor be eliminated from the
proposed annexation.
Council Member Reinersman stated that while he appreciated their concerns, he
felt the Council needed to look at the impact a major development would have on
the City and the only way the City would be able to be involved in the future
planning is if it is situated within the City boundaries.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2013-O-02 a
second reading. A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by
Council Member Reinersman to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-02. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding Completely
Enclosed Self-Storage Units and Warehousing Businesses as a Conditional Use
within the NSC Zone (KCPC2105R) – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would approve a
zone text amendment adding completely enclosed self-storage units and
warehousing business as a conditional use within the NSC zone (KCPC2105R) for a
first reading. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mr. John Huffman, 4290 Richardson Road, Independence – addressed Council
regarding this text amendment. He asked why the City would consider permitting
storage units in the NSC zone. Mr. Deters advised Mr. Huffman that the Council
agreed to sponsor the text amendment application at the request of a property
owner. Mr. Huffman distributed a copy of a letter dated March 5, 1997 and
signed by the City’s Zoning/Building Administrator Allan Bowling. He stated the
letter advises it is the opinion of the NKAPC staff that self-storage units are
appropriate as permitted uses with the IP (Industrial Park) zones. He stated he
recently brought this letter to the attention of the NKAPC staff who stated
they would not have rendered a favorable recommendation on this text amendment
had they had prior knowledge of this letter. Mr. Deters advised that NKAPC
should have had knowledge of this before providing their recommendation.
Council Member Little stated that the proposed text would allow completely
enclosed storage units which is an entirely different concept that Mr.
Huffman’s storage units on Richardson Road. Mr. Kary Shankar, who requested
this text amendment, advised Council that this subject was discussed by the
NKAPC staff and they clarified there was a difference between outdoor storage
units and a completely enclosed and climate controlled facility.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Amended 2012-2013 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend the 2012-2013 budget. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2013-2014 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance that
would adopt a budget for the 2013/2014 fiscal year. In her budget address Mayor
Yeager stated that next year’s street repair program will surpass a half
million dollars. She also stated the budget she is presenting will include
funding for an additional school resource officer, a part time employee for the
parks, a part time employee for zoning code enforcement and a new employee for
the public works department. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Council Member Franzen expressed concern that the part time parks position
would actually be a utility person that would assist three department heads.
She questioned who this employee would answer to and how tasks would be
prioritized. Mr. Groth advised the original intent for this position was to
assist the Recreation Director and it would be up to her and the other
department heads to work harmoniously. Council Member Reinersman stated that he
doesn’t doubt the need for an additional staff person, but he understands
Council Member Franzen’s concern and would also like a better understanding on
how this utility person would function under multiple department heads. A brief
discussion ensued relating to the part time positions for parks and code
enforcement. Council Member Little suggested job descriptions for the new
positions.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Pay and Classification Plan – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will adopt
an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2013/2014 fiscal year. Mr.
Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Resolution No. 2013-R-04 – Adopting and Approving the Execution of the
Municipal Aid Cooperative Program Contract with the Kentucky Transportation
Cabinet for the 2013-2014 Fiscal Year.
Resolution No. 2013-R-04 was presented to Council which would adopt and approve
the execution of the Municipal Aid Cooperative Program contract with the
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for the 2013-2014 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2013-R-04.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Little to approve Resolution No. 2013-R-04. Council Member Bushong asked if the
City would be receiving an increase in the funding. Mr. Groth advised there
would be an increase in the funding due to the 2010 census and explained that
it has been advantageous for the City to participate in the cooperative
agreement which provides emergency funding during the year. He stated the City
has received this emergency funding on a few occasions in recent years.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report and there is no need for
an executive session, but that Council would need to discuss finding a
replacement for the Council seat vacated by Donna Yeager.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Executive Order No. 2013-EO-03 - Mayor Yeager presented to Council an Executive
Order appointing Council Member Jim Bushong to the NKAPC Council with Council
Member Carol Franzen as the alternate representative for the City.
Executive Order No. 2013-EO-04 - Mayor Yeager presented to Council an Executive
Order appointing Council Member Chris Reinersman as the City representative on
the Independence Senior Board of Directors
Executive Session
At 7:40 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (f) to discuss the appointment of a new Council
Member to fill the seat vacated by Donna Yeager. The motion was seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:23 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Schedule a Special Council Meeting
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to schedule a special meeting on May 13, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. to interview
the top two candidates for the position of Council Member. Motion carried with
all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:24 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 13, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Monday, May 13, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Jim Bushong gave the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris
Reinersman. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Yeager announced this Special meeting of Council was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Ordinance No. 2013-O-03 – Adopting an Amended 2012-2013 Budget – 2nd
Reading
   ·   Ordinance No. 2013-O-04 – Adopting a Budget for the 2013-2014 Fiscal
Year – 2nd Reading
   ·   Ordinance No. 2013-O-05 – Adopting a Pay and Classification Plan – 2nd
Reading
   ·   Executive Session in Accordance with KRS 61.810(f) for the Purpose of
Interviewing Candidates that could lead to the Appointment to Fill the Vacant
Council Seat
   ·   Discussion and Possible Action to Approve the Appointment of a New
Council Member to Serve the Unexpired Term of Former Council Member Donna
Yeager
Ordinance No. 2013-O-03 – Adopting an Amended 2012/13 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2013-O-03, an
ordinance that would amend the 2012-2013 budget. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No.
2013-O-03.
Council Member Bushong made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-03, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-04– Adopting the 2013/2014 Fiscal Year Budget – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt the budget for the 2013/2014 fiscal year. City Attorney, Mr.
Deters gave Ordinance No. 2013-O-04 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-04. There being no discussion, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0 to adopt the 2013/2014
budget as presented
Ordinance No. 2013-O-05 – Adopting a Pay and Classification Plan – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2013-O-05- that will
adopt an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2013/2014 fiscal year.
Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-05 enacting a personnel and pay
classification plan for City employees. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Executive Session
At 6:04 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (f) for the purpose of interviewing candidates
that could lead to the appointment to fill the vacant council seat. The motion
was seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:31 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried with all ayes.
Appointment of New Council Member to Serve the Unexpired Term of Former Council
Member Donna Yeager
Mayor Yeager announced that Council has come to a decision in the selection of
an individual to fill the vacant Council seat.
Council Member Reinersman made a motion to appoint Bill Aseere to fill the
vacant Council seat for the remainder of Donna Yeager’s unexpired term which
was seconded by Council Member Franzen. Council Member Franzen commented that
she appreciated the candidates willingness to serve the City in this capacity.
She stated she found them to be extremely qualified candidates. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Oath of Office
Mr. Deters administered the Oath of Office to Mr. Bill Aseere who then took his
seat at the bench.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Aseere and
seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:35 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 23, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Monday, May 23, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen and Chris
Reinersman. Council Members Jim Bushong and Mike Little were absent. Also
present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters announced this Special meeting of Council was
being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Rescinding Ordinance No. 2013-O-02 (Intent to Annex
approximately 58.990 Acres on the Easterly Side of the Relocated SR17 South of
Mapletree Lane and North of Taylor Mill Road) – 1st Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex approximately 46.225 acres situated
in unincorporated Kenton County and located on the east side of relocated KY17,
north of Taylor Mill Road (KY16) – 1st Reading
   ·   Resolution No. 2013-R-05 – Opposing rezoning of approximate 28 acre area
on the east side of KY17 north of KY16 and south of Maple Tree Lane
Proposed Ordinance – Rescinding Ordinance No. 2013-O-02 (Intent to Annex
Approximately 58.990 Acres on the Easterly Side of the Relocated SR17 South of
Mapletree Lane and North of Taylor Mill Road) – 1st Reading
Mr. Deters presented to Council a proposed ordinance that will rescind
Ordinance No. 2013-O-02 that was adopted at the May 6, 2013 meeting. He stated
this ordinance is being rescinded as the proposed annexation boundary map has
been amended and will cover less acreage. Mr. Deters gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex approximately 46.225 acres situated in
unincorporated Kenton County and located on the east side of relocated KY17,
north of Taylor Mill Road (KY16) – 1st Reading
Mr. Deters presented to Council a proposed ordinance that will declare the
City’s intent to annex approximately 46.225 acres on the easterly side of the
relocated KY17, south of Maple Tree Lane and north of Taylor Mill Road at its
intersection. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Franzen commented that this new intent to annex ordinance
addresses the concerns presented by the attorney (Gailen Bridges) representing
the owners of the Regency Manor at the May 6th council meeting. She stated
Council was in agreement to remove this parcel from the annexation. Mr. Deters
concurred that the majority of the parcel was eliminated except for a thirty
foot street that was necessary to keep the annexed areas contiguous.
Resolution No. 2013-R-05 – Opposing rezoning of approximate 28 acre area on the
east side of KY17 north of KY16 and south of Maple Tree Lane
Mr. Deters presented to Council Resolution No. 2013-R-05 that opposes the
rezoning of an approximately 28-acre area located on the east side of KY17 and
on the north side of KY16 approximately 1000 feet north and 1200 feet east of
the KY17/KY16 intersection in the unincorporated Kenton County from R-1B to NSC
(Neighborhood Shopping Center). He stated that this proposed rezoning by the
County’ encompasses parcels the City has declared its intent to annex. Mr.
Deters read Resolution No. 2013-R-05.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Resolution No. 2013-R-05. Roll was called and answered with
all ayes. Motion carried 4-0.
Council Member Franzen asked if it would be appropriate for Council to attend
the Kenton County Planning Commission meeting on June 6, 2013 to oppose the
County’s rezoning request. Mr. Deters advised it would be ok to speak on behalf
of the City and to present their personal opinion as well.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Brinker to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:07 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 3, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 3,
2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager presiding.
Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge of
Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little, and Chris Reinersman. Also
present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Presentation of Special Merit Award for Outstanding Project – Andy Videkovich,
NKAPC Senior Planner
Mayor Yeager introduced Andy Videkovich, Senior Planner with NKAPC, who was
present to present the City with a plaque. Mr. Videkovich stated he was the
Project Manager on the recent zoning update for the downtown area and was happy
to be here to present this award. He stated the award was presented by the
Kentucky Chapter American Planning Association, who each year presents six
awards in six different categories. He advised this year there were four state-
wide nominations for the Special Merit Award and the Outstanding Project
recipient for the Independence Zoning Update has been awarded to the City of
Independence and Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission (NKAPC).
Mr. Videkovich expressed his appreciation to the many volunteers who served on
the Zoning Update Committee and specifically recognized John Richardson who
served as Chair and through his leadership guided the Committee through the
project. He also thanked the Independence residents for their willingness to
work with the Committee and finally thanked the City leaders for their
assistance and support.
Council Member Reinersman thanked Mr. Videkovich and the NKAPC staff for their
guidance during this project. He also acknowledged John Richardson for his
invaluable leadership who went above and beyond to complete the zoning update
project. He commented that the Committee accomplished more than he could have
hoped for. Mayor Yeager thanked Mayor Chris Moriconi who served as mayor during
the zoning update process and supported it’s adoption.
Approval of the May 6, 2013 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, May 6, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Reinersman. No amendments were noted and the motion carried
unanimously.
Approval of the May 13, 2013 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Monday, May 13, 2013. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Aseere. No amendments were noted and the motion carried
unanimously.
Approval of the May 23, 2013 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Thursday, May 23, 2013. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Aseere. No amendments were noted and the motion carried
unanimously.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-06 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding Completely
Enclosed Self-Storage Units and Warehousing Businesses as a Conditional Use
within the NSC Zone (KCPC 2105R) – 2nd Reading
second reading, Ordinance No. 2013-O-06 which would approve a text amendment to
the zoning code by adding completely enclosed self-storage units and
warehousing businesses as a conditional use within the NSC (Neighborhood
Shopping Center) zone. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2013-O-06 a second
reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Little to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-06. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-07 – Rescinding Ordinance No. 2013-O-02 that had Declared
the Intent to Annex Approximately 58.990 Acres on the Easterly Side of the
Relocated State Route 17, South of Maple Tree Lane and North of Taylor Mill
Road at its Intersection with State Route 17 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2013-O-07
that rescinds Ordinance No. 2013-O-02 that was adopted by Council on May 6,
2013 and had declared the City’s intent to annex approximately 58.990 acres on
the easterly side of the relocated SR17, just south of Maple Tree Lane and
north of Taylor Mill Road it its intersection with SR 17. Mr. Deters gave
Ordinance No. 2013-O-07 a second reading and explained that this ordinance
would repeal Ordinance No. 2013-O-02.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-07. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Resolution – Adding Job Descriptions to the Personnel Policy &
Procedures Manual
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a resolution that would add three new job
descriptions to the employee Personnel Policy and Procedures Manual.
Council Member Franzen stated she would like to obtain more information
regarding the job descriptions and moved to table any action on adopting the
resolution. Council Member Reinersman seconded the motion. A brief discussion
ensued wherein Council Members Brinker and Bushong voiced their opposition to
table the adoption of the job descriptions and the creation of these new
positions since the appropriations of funds was already provided for in the
adoption of the 2013-2014 budget. Council Member Franzen stated she wanted more
specific information relating to the need for the positions, hours to be
worked, and tasks to be performed, etc.
At the end of the discussion roll was called on the motion to table this
resolution and answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members
Brinker and Bushong. Motion carried 4-2 in favor of tabling the resolution.
Award Bid – Street Repairs to Birnam Drive & Ashton Court
Mayor Yeager announced the City is in receipt of bids for the roadway
improvement to Birnam Drive and Ashton Court. Public Services Director Dan Koch
advised Council the City received four bids for this project with the high bid
being $238,320 and the low bid, from Len Riegler Blacktop being $159,395. He
advised the city engineer’s estimate for this project was $176,475.00. Mr. Koch
stated he recommends the City award the bid to Len Riegler Blacktop.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to award the repairs contract to the low
bidder, Len Riegler Blacktop in the amount of $159,395.00. Council Member
Aseere seconded the motion. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Award Bid – Street Repairs to Sherwood Drive
Mayor Yeager announced the City is in receipt of bids for the Sherwood Drive
roadway improvements. Public Services Director Dan Koch advised Council the
City received two bids for this complete concrete replacement. He stated the
city engineer’s estimate for this project was $350,000 and the low bidder was
JPS Construction at $297,745. Mr. Koch recommended the City award the bid to
JPS Construction.
Council Member Franzen asked if it would be cheaper to replace the concrete
with asphalt. Mr. Koch advised that concrete is more expensive, but it is best
to replace concrete with concrete.
A motion was made by Council Member Aseere and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to award the repairs contract to JPS Construction with the low bid
of $297,745.00. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth advised Council that City staff recently met with representatives
from Kroger regarding the grand opening for the new Kroger Marketplace. He
stated that Kroger is planning a grand opening on August 22nd. Kroger will
close the current store at 6:00 p.m. on August 21st and hold a ribbon cutting
ceremony at 7:00 a.m. the next day prior to the opening.
Council Member Little asked if there are any plans for the space that Kroger
will be vacating in the Towne Center. Mr. Groth advised that the Deters Company
is working on filling the space.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Executive Order No. 2013-EO-05 - Mayor Yeager presented to Council an Executive
Order appointing Kindra Kilgore to the Code Enforcement/Board of Ethics.
Miscellaneous
Council Member Reinersman updated Council on the proposed zone change by Kenton
County for parcels along Madison Pike, north of Taylor Mill Road. He reported
that they met with Kenton County Judge Executive Steve Arlinghaus last week to
discuss the proposed zone change and the City’s intent to annex the same
parcels. Judge Arlinghaus agreed to ask the Kenton County Planning Commission
to table the request at their June 6th meeting until the July 9th meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:20 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 10, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Monday, June 10, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris
Reinersman. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters announced this Special meeting of Council was
being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Ordinance No. 2013-O-08 Approving an Intent to Annex approximately
46.225 acres situated in unincorporated Kenton County, Kentucky and located on
the east side of relocated KY17 just north of KY16 – 2nd reading
   ·   Resolution No. 2013-R-06 – Authorizing the financing of police and
public services department vehicles
Ordinance No. 2013-O-08 Approving an Intent to Annex approximately 46.225 acres
situated in unincorporated Kenton County, Kentucky and located on the east side
of relocated KY17 just north of KY16 – 2nd reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2013-O-08
which would approve the City’s intention to annex approximately 46.225 acres
situated in unincorporated Kenton County and located on the east side of the
relocated KY17 just north of KY16. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance No. 2013-O-08 a
second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-08. A brief discussion ensued. Council
Member Reinersman stated that this annexation proposal is not a land grab by
the City, but a plan that will place the City leaders at the negotiation table
in the event that the vacant parcels would be developed in the future. This
would put the City in a position to be part of the negotiations for the
development and address citizen concerns. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
A member of the audience expressed concern that only the residents living in
the affected annexation area would be able to vote on the annexation proposal.
Mr. Groth advised the parcels being annexed are all vacant land. Mr. Deters
stated that the revised intent to annex ordinance has eliminated all but a
thirty foot strip of the Regency Manor and First Baptist Church properties and
totally eliminated the Meenach property. He advised the City needed the thirty
foot strips from the Regency Manor and Church properties in order to have
connection to the other annexation parcels along Madison Pike.
Council Member Reinersman explained the City’s annexation proposal and the
County’s recent filing for a zone change for some of the parcels in the
annexation area. The audience member advised that his mother (Nellie Goodridge)
owns one of the parcels the City is proposing to annex and they are concerned
as they do not see any advantage they will have by being incorporated into the
City. Council Member Reinersman explained the City is concerned about future
development plans along that stretch of Madison Pike because it abuts the City
boundaries. He stated the City is not opposed to future development but doesn’t
want to be a victim to any growth in that area that will have a direct impact
on the City because of its close proximity.
Resolution No. 2013-R-06 – Authorizing the Financing of Police and Public
Services Department Vehicles
City Administrator Dan Groth advised Council that the City solicited proposals
from three banks (Huntington, Park National and US Bank) for the financing of
the new vehicles. He stated the interest rate proposals were very close with
only $272 difference between them. Mr. Groth recommended the City obtain
financing for $266,000 with Huntington Bank, which would include the cost of
the five police cruisers with a three year term fixed rate of 2.054% and the 2
public works vehicles with a four year term fixed rate of $2.223%.
Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2013-R-06. A motion was made by Council Member
Aseere and seconded by Council Member Brinker to adopt Resolution 2013-R-06
authorizing a lease-purchase agreement with Huntington Bank for the financing
of five police cruisers and two public works trucks. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Reinersman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 7:12 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 1, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 1,
2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager presiding.
Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge of
Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen and Chris Reinersman. Council Member Mike
Little was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters.
Approval of the June 3, 2013 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, June 3, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted and the motion carried
unanimously.
Approval of the June 10, 2013 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Monday, June 10, 2013. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Bushong. No amendments were noted and the motion carried
unanimously.
Approval of Stage II Development Plan for an 8.20 Acre Area Located at McCullum
Pike and KY17 in the Gateway Mixed Use Zone (GMU) by Paul Hemmer Company (KCPC
2114R)
Jack Levermann, Vice President of Real Estate and Development for the Paul
Hemmer Company and Bob Schroeder, Vice President of Arlinghaus Builders LLC
presented to Council a Stage II Development Plan for an 8+ tract of land
located at McCullum Pike and the new KY17. Mr. Levermann advised that has
purchased lot number 2 of the Courthouse Crossing development from Arlinghaus
Builders. He stated the Plan for lot two is to construct a St. Elizabeth
Primary Care Physicians facility including an Express Care clinic which is an
urgent care type of service. Mr. Levermann stated the facility will be 12,400
square feet and St. Elizabeth will employ 20-24 employees. He stated this new
construction will be in the City’s new GMU (Gateway Mixed Use) zone and he went
on to say that they had some preliminary meetings with Mayor Moriconi and City
staff to review and discuss the concept and make revisions as needed. Mr.
Levermann stated that the NKAPC staff has recommended that some of the parking
spaces be relocated at the rear of the building. He stated they feel they have
addressed all concerns for this development, with the exception of adding
parking spaces in the rear. He stated they took the parking space concerns
under consideration and did attempt to accommodate the Planning Commission’s
request but in order to add the parking spaces, another traffic aisle would
have to be added and the sloped topography of the site just made it unworkable.
Mr. Levermann showed Council illustrations of each elevation of the building.
Bob Schroeder, Vice President of Arlinghaus Builders LLC advised Council that
the Stage II Plan includes a total of five lots on 8.20 acres. He stated there
will be access to the site off McCullum Road with a boulevard entrance, with
landscaped island, walkway and retaining wall on one side of the boulevard. Mr.
Schroeder advised interconnectivity between the lots will be provided for
vehicular and pedestrian mobility within the development. He stated the streets
within the development will be wide enough to accommodate on-street parking.
Mr. Schroeder stated the proposed signage are larger than currently permitted
and they will be asking for a variance. He also advised Council that two minor
public amenities will be provided as required of the GMU zone. Mr. Schroeder
advised that since there is limited access on KY17, egress to the development
will be from McCullum Road, but they have moved the entrance further from the
intersection to prevent traffic congestion at the intersection.
Council Member Brinker asked if the other building sites will be graded until
developed. Mr. Schroeder replied they would be graded and seeded.
Council Member Franzen expressed her concern that the proposed monument sign
was too large and that she would like to see it scaled down. A brief discussion
ensued. Council Member Reinersman advised that, as a way finding tool, they
have added the ‘City of Independence’ to this Courthouse Crossing monument
sign. Mr. Levermann advised they were open to discuss revisions to the monument
sign, but they did want a substantial sign for this Gateway zone. Mr. Deters
asked the distance of the sign from the right of way, as the size of the sign
makes a difference when it sets back quite a distance. Mr. Schroeder advised
the State has a large right of way, so it is set back approximately sixty-five
feet. Council Member Franzen stated that if the rest of the Council was okay
with the size of the sign then she will accept that. Mr. Schroeder stated this
monument sign was modeled after the “Shops of Fort Wright” sign and said they
could attempt to reduce the size of the wing walls.
Other items of discussion for this Stage II Development Plan included the
landscaping. Mr. Levermann advised he has discussed the landscaping regulations
with the City’s Zoning Administrator. He stated no landscaping around the trash
dumpsters will be necessary as they will construct a brick enclosure in place
of hedges, etc. Council Member Reinersman asked about the loading and/or
unloading spaces which are required. Mr. Schroeder advised he met with the
City’s Zoning Administrator who stated there wouldn’t be an issue with their
proposal on this regulation. In closing, Mr. Schroeder commented that many of
the issues the Planning Commission staff cited to determine a recommendation
for disapproval for the proposed development plan have been considered and/or
changed.
Council Member Reinersman advised Council that he has been very involved with
the developers from the beginning of this concept plan. He stated he feels they
have met most of the requirements for the intent of the Gateway Mixed Use zone.
He stated the topography of the site limits the parking spaces that could be
constructed as the hillside drops off leaving no solution to provide the number
of spaces that are normally required in this zone. He stated he would love to
see a development plan that met the full intent of the zone but feels the plan
being proposed is a great use of the site. He stated that while he did not want
to yield too much on the requirements of this zone he feels this developer has
made every effort to comply with the concept of the Gateway zone. Council
Member Franzen commented that the City was not giving in much on the parking
requirement. Mr. Groth commented that this is a good business use for the City
and is setting the tone for the type of building development the City would
like to recruit. Council Member Franzen agreed and felt the residents prefer
this type of business of a big-box development. Council Member Reinersman
agreed by stating this is an exceptionally good use on many levels even though
the City will concede some requirements of the zone for this development. Mayor
Yeager commented that she was overall pleased with the development plan.
There being no further discussion, Council Member Reinersman made a motion to
approve the Stage II Development Plan (KCPC 2114R), as submitted by the Paul
Hemmer Company and all items discussed. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Sidewalks Maintenance – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance that
would amend Chapter 95 of the code of ordinances by adding a new section
providing for permanent waivers for sidewalks and to add a waiver form. Mr.
Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Council Member Franzen commented that the City’s Building Inspector, Kevin
Barbian worked hard on this amendment and she appreciates his thoroughness. She
stated she is comfortable that the waiver will only be allowed when all waiver
criteria is met and agreed upon by three City officials.
Award Bid – Mid-size Dump Truck
Dan Groth advised Council the City is in receipt of two bids for the purchase
of a mid-size dump truck for the Public Works Department. He stated that Fuller
Ford in Cincinnati is $663 higher that the low bid from Kaffenbarger, but
Fuller Ford promises a quicker delivery time and because this dealer is closer
the City would receive better service. He stated that Fuller Ford will also
provide free oil changes which, over a four year period, would make up the
difference between the bids.
Council Member Reinersman move to award the bid for the purchase of a 550
Series, 4-wheel drive dump truck to Fuller Ford in the amount of $62,790.50.
The motion was seconded by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2013-R-07 – Creating a Park and Recreation Board and Designating
Members of the Board
Mayor Yeager presented to Council Resolution No. 2013-R-07 that would create a
Park and Recreation Board. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2013-R-07.
Council Member Bushong made a motion to adopt Resolution No. 2013-R-07,
seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Executive Order No. 2013-EO-06 - Mayor Yeager presented to Council an Executive
Order appointing Sara Gadzala to the Senior Board of Directors. Mr. Deters read
the Executive Order No. 2013-EO-06.
Mayor Yeager announced the July 4th Celebration is scheduled for this weekend,
July 5th and 6th. She stated the fireworks will be held on Saturday and this
year a new feature of the Celebration will be the hot air balloon glow on
Friday evening. She also announced the seniors will be holding their annual
Silent Auction fundraiser on Friday evening in the Senior Center. Mayor Yeager
encouraged everyone to participate in the festival events this weekend.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Reinersman
and seconded by Council Member Aseere to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:50 p.m.
                     __________________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 19, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Monday, August 19, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris
Reinersman. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator
Dan Groth, City Clerk Patricia Taney, Building Inspector Kevin Barbian, Finance
Director Teresa Franklin Hudson and Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters announced this Special meeting of Council was
being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Approval of July 1, 2013 Council Meeting Minutes
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2013-S-11 Supplement to the
Codification of Ordinances – 1st Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Statement of Goals & Objectives for
the New Kenton County Comprehensive Plan – 1st Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Amending the Sidewalk Maintenance Regulations – 1st
Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Real & Personal Property Tax Rates for
2013- 1st Reading
   ·   Resolution No. 2013-R-08 – Adding a Job Description of Utility Worker
for the 2009 Edition of the Employee Personnel Policy Manual
   ·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
Approval of the July 1, 2013 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, July 1, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments were noted and the motion carried
unanimously 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2013-S-11 Supplement to the Codification of
Ordinances – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the 2013-S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation. The supplement contains all ordinances
enacted since the prior supplement adopted in 2011. Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Statement of Goals & Objectives for the New
Kenton County Comprehensive Plan – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
approve a recommendation from the Kenton County Planning Commission regarding a
proposed statement of goals and objectives which will be the basis for a new
Kenton County Comprehensive Plan. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first
reading. Mr. Groth advised that Andy Videkovich, Senior Planner with the
Northern Kentucky Area Planning was present to answer any questions that
Council may have. Council did not have any questions.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the Sidewalk Maintenance Regulations – 1st
Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance what would
amend Chapter 95 of the code of ordinances by adding a new section providing
for permanent waivers for sidewalks as required in the subdivision regulations
and providing penalties for non-compliance of sidewalk repairs. Mr. Deters gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading. Council Member Little thanked Building
Inspector Kevin Barbian for his work on drafting this revision.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Real & Personal Property Tax Rates for 2013-
1st Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the real estate and personal property tax rates for 2013. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance that would adopt the compensating tax rates that have
been calculated at $0.255/$100 assessed value for real estate property and
$0.684/$100 assessed value for personal property. Council Member Reinersman
asked Mrs. Hudson about her summary report which indicates there is a revenue
budget short fall of $271,000, but a significant savings in the health
insurance expense of $295,000. Mrs. Hudson commented that we projected a fifty
percent premium increase in the health insurance line item, but the renewal
came in about the same as last year, which was a good surprise and has put us
ahead by $295,000. There was a brief discussion among Council and it was
suggested and agreed upon to keep the same tax rates as last year since the
employee health insurance would come in well under budget. A motion was made by
Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member Aseere to adopt the real
estate tax rate of $0.237/$100 and the personal property tax rate of $0.656/
$100. Roll was called and answered with all ayes; motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Resolution – Adding a Job Description of Utility Worker for the 2009
Edition of the Employee Personnel Policy Manual
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a proposed resolution to create and adopt as
part of the employee personnel policy manual a job description for a Utility
Worker. Mr. Deters read the resolution.
Council Member Reinersman recommended against taking action on adding this
position at this time. He stated he previously asked for an evaluation of the
positions being added. Mayor Yeager stated the affected employees do not have
the time it will take to make a needs assessment for the new positions. Council
Member Brinker commented that they needed to have faith in the administration
to put this part-time position to good use. He reminded Council that the salary
for the position has already been approved in the 2013/2014 budget. Council
Member Reinersman stated he agreed on this when presented in the budget with
the understanding that more clarification for the needed positions would be
forthcoming. He stated he felt the City should take a private sector approach
to creating and hiring a new position. Council Member Aseere commented that he
thought the Parks & Recreation Board was created to help the Parks & Recreation
Director. He stated that the job description duties for the Utility Worker was
vague. Mayor Yeager stated the City can’t expect the board members to do manual
labor. Council Member Franzen agreed that a needs assessment should be
submitted to the Council. City Administrator, Dan Groth advised Council that he
has been assisting with code violations, but help is really needed in this
area. Council Member Bushong asked who the Utility Worker would report to and
how it would be determined which department they would work in. He expressed
concern that the departments that needed the help would not get the benefit of
this part-time worker. Mr. Groth advised he would manage the work schedule of
the Utility Worker based on the most pressing needs of the departments each
week. Council Member Franzen commented that the Zoning Administrator needs
assistance from someone that has expertise in this area. Council Member Little
stated that he felt the City is bound to the citizens to get comparison
information from other cities such as the number of employees in each
department, the size of the city, the number of zoning violations, etc. Mr.
Groth commented that the City operates on a shoestring budget spending less per
capita than any other local city. Council Member Bushong reiterated that he is
not in favor of tabling the hiring of a Utility Worker. Council Member Franzen
stated that the Council requested this data months ago. Council Member
Reinersman commented that this needed data could assist them in realizing new
efficiencies that could be gained by hiring additional staff.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to table action of creating and adopting a job description for a
Utility Worker. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote
cast by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried 5-1.
Executive Session (only if necessary)
Mr. Deters advised there was no need for an executive session.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:21 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 9, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
9, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager
presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge
of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also
present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan Groth and City
Clerk Patricia Taney.
Approval of the August 19, 2013 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Monday, August 19, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
by Council Member Reinersman. No amendments were noted and the motion carried
unanimously.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-09 – Adopting the 2013-S-11 Supplement to the Codification
of Ordinances – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading, Ordinance No. 2013-O-09, an
ordinance that would adopt the 2013-S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances
as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation. The supplement contains
all ordinances enacted since the prior supplement adopted in 2011. Mr. Deters
gave the ordinance a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-09. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-10 – Adopting the Statement of Goals & Objectives for the
New Kenton County Comprehensive Plan – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2013-O-10, an
ordinance that would approve a recommendation from the Kenton County Planning
Commission regarding a proposed statement of goals and objectives which will be
the basis for a new Kenton County Comprehensive Plan. Mr. Deters gave the
ordinance a second reading.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-10 with a second by
Council Member Reinersman. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-11 – Amending the Sidewalk Maintenance Regulations – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2013-O-11, an
ordinance that would amend Chapter 95 of the code of ordinances by adding a new
section providing for permanent waivers for sidewalks as required in the
subdivision regulations and providing penalties for non-compliance of sidewalk
repairs. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-11. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-12 – Adopting the Real & Personal Property Tax Rates for
2013- 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a second reading Ordinance No. 2013-O-12 that would
adopt the real estate and personal property tax rates for 2013. Mr. Deters gave
the ordinance a second reading that will adopt a real estate tax rate of
$0.237/$100 of assessed value and a personal property tax rate of $0.656/$100
of assessed value. These are the same rates that were adopted for 2012.
Council Member Aseere moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-10 with a second by
Council Member Reinersman. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Renaming Stevens Drive to England Road – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
rename Stevens Drive, off of Madison Pike between Locust Lane and Peach Drive,
to England Road. Council Member Reinersman asked if there were other residents
(than the England family) on Stevens Drive that would be affected by this name
change. Mr. Groth advised there are other residents on this street, but all are
related to the England family.
Mr. Groth reported that a few other streets in the City need to be renamed as
well and he will get that information to them so they can begin thinking about
new street names.
Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Declare Surplus Property – List of City Owned Vehicles to be Auctioned
Mr. Groth presented to Council a list of City owned vehicles that have been
taken out of service. He advised there are seven vehicles in all which need to
be declared as surplus property then they would be placed for auction later
this month. He advised the vehicles include two 2003 Ford Expeditions, a 2003
Ford Taurus, a 1999 Chevrolet pickup truck, a 2005 Ford Explorer, a 2005 Ford
Crown Victoria and a 2006 Dodge Charger.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to declare the seven vehicles as surplus property and to authorize
their sale by auction. Motion carried with all ayes.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth provided the Council with information on part time employees along
with an excerpt from the Kentucky League of Cities publication “Basics of
Kentucky Cities.” He stated the entire publication was available to anyone who
wanted it.
He also reported the developer of the new St. Elizabeth South structure going
in at the corner of McCullum Road and New SR17 is requesting three waivers, two
of which are for sidewalks along McCullum and along the New SR17 and the other
being a waiver for a turn lane. He stated the Planning Commission has denied
the request for the waiver of sidewalks along McCullum Road as this section of
walkway will eventually connect to the Courthouse area along old Madison Pike.
Mr. Groth went on to comment that this development at McCullum Road and the New
SR17 is a great catalyst for future economic development in the City.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager announced the Senior Picnic is scheduled for Thursday, September
19th.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:10 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 7, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
7, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager
presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge
of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Jim Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also
present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan Groth and City
Clerk Patricia Taney.
Approval of the September 9, 2013 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, September 9, 2013. Council Member Reinersman so moved, with
second by Council Member Little. No amendments were noted and the motion
carried unanimously.
Address by Kenton County Deputy Judge-Executive Mark Kreimborg
Mayor Yeager introduced Kenton County Deputy Judge Executive Mark Kreimborg.
Mr. Kreimborg announced he was here on behalf of Judge Executive Steve
Arlinghaus to share his desire to collaborate with the City officials to
effectively improve public services that would benefit the entire community. He
cited a few examples of the County’s collaborative efforts with other
communities which included recently working with the City of Covington on the
new Licking River Greenway and Trails project. Mr. Kreimborg commented that
there have been some recent issues with the County’s applying for a zone change
for property along Madison Pike south of the City which the City was attempting
to annex but stated this was due to miscommunication which has now been
resolved. He reiterated that the County officials want to bring back good
communications with all the cities in Kenton County.
Mr. Kreimborg introduced Judge Arlinghaus’ re-election campaign manager Pam
Dimmerman. Ms. Dimmerman advised she is an Independence resident and ran a
successful election campaign for State Representative Diane St. Onge. She
stated the re-election website for Judge Arlinghaus would be launched next week
and advised Council to please reach out to her if she can assist the City in
any way.
Council Member Bushong asked if Kenton County could be involved in the
Richardson Road bridge project with open communications with Boone County where
the bridge is located and under that county’s jurisdiction for maintenance. He
stated the bridge, which has been closed by the State due to a maintenance
issue, is just 300 feet outside of Kenton County and the closing has become an
inconvenience to the Independence residents. Council Member Bushong asked that
Kenton County officials collaborate with the Boone County officials to ensure
that repairs to the bridge are completed as soon as possible so as not to
inconvenience the citizens longer than necessary. Mr. Kreimborg advised he
would speak with Judge Arlinghaus about this issue and stated he was confident
the Kenton County officials will work effectively with Boone County officials
on this issue.
City Administrator advised Council that Kenton County assisted the City in
pouring a new pathway behind the Amphitheater in Memorial Park which saved the
Independence taxpayers considerably on this project.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-13 – Renaming Stevens Drive to England Drive – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a second reading Ordinance No. 2013-O-13, an
ordinance that would rename Stevens Drive, off of Madison Pike between Locust
Lane and Peach Drive, to England Drive.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-13. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Regulating Underground Utilities – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Chapter 153 of the code of ordinances relating to underground utilities
and the City’s intent to eliminate the extension or addition of above ground
utilities whenever reasonably possible. The ordinance would prohibit the
extension of utilities within any current or new development, be it
residential, commercial, industrial or otherwise, that are above the surface of
the ground but would grant exceptions due to extraordinary natural conditions
which are stated in the ordinance. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the Municipal Government League of Northern Kentucky
(MGLNK) dinner will be held on Saturday, November 16, 2013. He stated if anyone
was interested in attending to please let him know and he would make the
reservation.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Heritage Park Apartments - Mayor Yeager reported that she recently met with
City staff and the City attorney to discuss the deteriorating condition of the
Heritage Park Apartment complex on Richardson Road. She stated this property
went into default after the owner died and that it is now bank owned. Mr.
Deters advised the blighted condition of the property is decreasing the values
of the surrounding properties. He stated he is reviewing the Code Board
ordinances and the recently revised blighted ordinance which will allow the
City to take more action. A brief discussion ensued and it was decided that the
City Attorney would send a notice to the current owner of record which is the
bank and advise them to board up the buildings and clean up the grounds or the
City would consider further legal remedies to clean up the area.
Utility Worker Position – Council Member Little reintroduced the topic of
adopting a job description for the position of Utility Worker which was tabled
at the August 19, 2013 special meeting. He asked if anyone was interested in
moving forward sine the City Administrator had provided the information Council
requested to address their concerns. Council Member Reinersman stated he needed
more time to consider this issue. Council Member Bushong asked if one or two
positions would be filled for this job description. Mr. Groth advised that only
one person would be hired. Council Member Bushong expressed some concern that
one part time person could effectively be trained for zoning as well as all the
other departments that would utilize this employee. Since a consensus could not
be reached, Mr. Deters suggested this issue be tabled for another month.
Citizen Comment
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence – thanked the Mayor, Council and Public
Services Director Dan Koch for carrying out a great job on the road repairs to
Carrie Way.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:18 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 4, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
4, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager
presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge
of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Mike Little. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also present was City
Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan Groth and City Clerk Patricia
Taney. Council Member Jim Bushong was absent.
Address by Kenton County Commissioner Kris Knochelmann
Mayor Yeager introduced Kenton County Commissioner Kris Knochelmann.
Commissioner Knochelmann stated that having grown up in Covington and Taylor
Mill, and a small business owner, he is proud to serve the citizens in Kenton
County as a Commissioner. He went on to say that he is a candidate in the
November 2014 election for the position of Kenton County Judge Executive. He
stated he strives for continued discussions with local leaders on issues that
affect the citizens of Independence and all of Kenton County. Commissioner
Knochelmann stated that a proud moment for him was the issue of the Kenton
County Jail and working with the group of people, which included Independence
Council Members that stepped forward to speak for the community on finding the
best location for the new jail. He stated this was a valuable lesson in how the
community comes together for a common goal and helps the elected officials look
at the issues in a different light. He stated that while this contentious issue
of finding the appropriate site for the new jail was stressful, it was also
gratifying to have a positive outcome which allowed a good exchange of dialogue
which helped him learn how to function better is his role of Commissioner. He
advised Mayor Yeager and the Council Members that his door is always open for
discussing issues that affect will serve the community in a positive way.
Approval of the October 7, 2013 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, October 7, 2013. Council Member Reinersman so moved, with
second by Council Member Brinker. Council Member Aseere asked for an update on
the Heritage Park Apartments issue. City Attorney Deters advised he sent the
owners a letter and they have responded and work has taken place at the
complex. They have boarded the windows making the buildings more secure. No
amendments to the minutes were noted, roll was called and answered with five
ayes. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-14 – Regulating Underground Utilities – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a second reading Ordinance No. 2013-O-14 that would
amend Chapter 153 of the code of ordinances relating to underground utilities
and the City’s intent to eliminate the extension or addition of above ground
utilities whenever reasonably possible. Additionally, Ordinance No. 2013-O-14
would prohibit the extension of utilities within any current or new
development, be it residential, commercial, industrial or otherwise, that are
above the surface of the ground but would grant exceptions due to extraordinary
natural conditions which are stated in the ordinance. Mr. Deters gave Ordinance
No. 2013-O-14 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-14. No discussion. Roll was called and
answered unanimously and motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2010-O-06 Relating to Alcohol
Beverage Control – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2010-O-06 relating to alcohol beverage control regulations.
Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and explained this
ordinance is to comply with the recent changes in State ABC laws which has
revised the types of licenses issuable by the City and related fees for each
license as well as the license terms.
Municipal Order No. 2013-MO-01 – Re-Appointment of Maura Snyder to the Kenton
County Planning Commission
Mr. Deters presented Municipal Order No. 2013-MO-01 that would re-appoint Maura
Snyder as the City’s representative on the Kenton County Planning Commission.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to approve Municipal Order No. 2013-MO-01. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager advised she did not have anything to report.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:09 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
December 2, 2013
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
2, 2013 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager
presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge
of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also present was City Attorney Jed
K. Deters, City Administrator Dan Groth and City Clerk Patricia Taney. Council
Member Carol Franzen was absent.
Approval of the November 4, 2013 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, November 4, 2013. Council Member Reinersman so moved, with
second by Council Member Aseere. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered with five ayes. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2013-O-15 – Amending Ordinance No. 2010-O-06 Relating to Alcohol
Beverage Control – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a second reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2010-O-06 relating to alcohol beverage control regulations.
Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a second reading and explained this
ordinance is to comply with the recent changes in State ABC laws which has
revised the types of licenses issuable by the City and related fees for each
license as well as the license terms.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Ordinance No. 2013-O-15. There being no discussion, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2013-R-08 – Authorizing Application for a Homeland Security
Project Grant for Police Department Handguns
Mr. Deters presented to Council and read Resolution No. 2013-R-08 which would
authorize the Mayor to make application to the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security for grant funds for a Weapons Project Title of Back-Up/Off-Duty
handguns for the City’s police department. Additionally Resolution No. 2013-R-
08 would authorize the Mayor to execute and furnish all required documents
including a Memorandum of Agreement as may be required by the Office of
Homeland Security for this grant project.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to approve Resolution No. 2013-R-08. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced there would be a Park Board meeting this week wherein the
Board members would hear updates regarding available grants through the State.
Mr. Groth also provided Council with maps provided by the State wherein they
are requesting the City to assume ownership of a 0.713 mile section of
Richardson Road as well as various remnant sections of KY 536 which will be
bypassed when the roadway is reconstructed in the near future. He advised he
would be meeting with Carol Ramler of the Kentucky Transportation Department
tomorrow to further discuss this transfer of roads.
Council Members had a few questions which Mr. Groth will get answered when he
meets with Ms. Ramler. He stated he would also get confirmation on the final
number of roundabouts to be constructed. Prior to the City voicing their
concern earlier this year, the original number of roundabouts was nine, but Mr.
Groth stated he believes some of the roundabouts have now been eliminated. He
stated he would get that number confirmed when he meets with Ms. Ramler.
Council Member Aseere also expressed concern about the flooding in the Bristow
Road area and asked if that problem would be addressed with the reconstruction
of that section of KY 536.
Mr. Groth advised he would report back to Council after his meeting with Ms.
Ramler.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report, but requested an
executive session to discuss some legal issues.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager announced the City’s annual Christmas Walk would be on Saturday,
December 7th from 6-9 p.m. with the parade beginning at 5:45 p.m. She stated
she hoped the newsletter would arrive in everyone’s homes prior to Saturday,
but explained there have been some problems with the printer. She stated the
newsletter contains the details of all the events. Council Member Reinersman
provided a brief summary of the various events that were scheduled for the
Christmas Walk this year.
Executive Session
At 7:13 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss possible/pending litigation. The
motion was seconded by Council Member Reinersman. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:42 p.m. Council Member Little moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Reinersman
and seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:43 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2014 Minutes
February 3, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
3, 2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager
presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge
of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also present was City
Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan Groth and City Clerk Patricia
Taney.
Approval of the December 2, 2013 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, December 2, 2013. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
by Council Member Little. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll was
called and answered with five ayes and one abstention by Council Member
Franzen. Motion carried 5-0.
Proclamation Presented to Simon Kenton High School Football Team
Mayor Yeager along with Council Member Carol Franzen presented the Simon Kenton
High School football team with a Proclamation to commend them for completing
the 2013 regular season undefeated with a record of ten wins and no losses.
Council Member Franzen read the Proclamation.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2007-O-22 and Adopting the 2013
Kentucky Building Code as Promulgated in KAR – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2007-O-22 and adopt the 2013 Kentucky Building Code as
promulgated in 815 KAR 7:105 by the Board of Housing, Buildings and
Construction. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a first reading. He explained this
is a housekeeping measure to reference the most current building codes, which
is 2013.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2007-O-23 and Adopting the 2013
Kentucky Residential Code – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend Ordinance No. 2007-O-23 and adopt the 2013 Kentucky Residential Code that
would apply to all one and two family dwellings and townhouses located within
the City limits and which are fabricated, erected, constructed, enlarged,
altered and or repaired together with such appurtenances and accessory
structures. This code also provides for the issuance of permits and provides
for penalties for the violation of any provision of the code. Mr. Deters gave
the ordinance a first reading and again explained this is a housekeeping
measure to reference the most current building codes, which is 2013.
Resolution No. 2014-R-01 – Authorizing a Grant Application for Assistance under
the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965
Mayor Yeager presented to Council Resolution No. 2014-R-01 which would
authorize the City to apply for a grant for financial assistance under the Land
and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965. Mr. Deters read Resolution No. 2014-R-
01.
Mayor Yeager acknowledged three Park Board members in attendance who have been
researching possible grants to help fund desirable park improvements. Mr. Groth
advised the City would like to use the grant funds to terrace the hillside
between the Senior Center and the Amphitheater. He stated the City applied for
this same grant two years ago but was not awarded the grant. He stated this is
the first of two grants the Park Board would like to apply for. He stated the
second grant application would be with the CDBG (Community Development Block
Grant) for a project that would include basketball courts, walking paths and
restrooms in Memorial Park. He stated the CDBG grant would not require any
matching funds from the City. Mr. Groth added that passing this Resolution is
the first step in the grant application process along with a public hearing
that will be scheduled in March to gather public input on the proposed project.
He advised the hillside terracing project for the Amphitheater would cost the
City around $120,000 which will have to be budgeted but that part of the City’s
expense can be contributed as in-kind services. Council Member Reinersman
commented that the Independence Business Association will write a letter of
support for this project which can be submitted along with the grant
application. Mayor Yeager advised other letters of support will be solicited as
well. Council Member Brinker reported that as Chairman of the Park Committee
the monthly meetings are going well and the members are discussing long and
short term goals for the City’s park system. Council Member Little thanked the
Park Board members stating he feels these volunteers, as well as other members
of City boards/committees, are crucial to the City and he appreciates the time
and effort they give.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Brinker
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adopt Resolution No. 2014-R-01
authorizing the grant application under the Land and Water Conservation Fund
Act of 1965 for financial assistance for the hillside terracing project in
Memorial Park. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2014-R-02 – Accepting Ownership and Maintenance of Bypassed
Segments of Old KY 536
Mayor Yeager presented to Council Resolution No. 2014-R-02 that addresses the
reconstruction of KY 536 from the Boone County line to KY 17, specifically
resolving that the City shall:
   ·   allow KYTC to perform work on City Right of Way
   ·   allow KYTC to purchase Right of Way in the City’s name for referenced
City Streets
   ·   upon completion of construction accept title to ownership and
maintenance responsibility for:
      *   segments of bypassed KY 536
      *   reconstructed City Streets
      *   sidewalks and multi-use paths within City Limits
      *   street signs or street lights constructed at the City’s request
      *   decorative features added to this project (signs, landscaping, light
poles)
   ·   pay for all City street signs
   ·   pay for the future electric bills for all street lights not located
within the roundabouts and traffic signals within the City Limits
   ·   pay for all decorative features installed with this construction project
that is above the standard installation cost
   ·   pay for all maintenance of decorative street lights even those that
would be included in the roundabouts
   ·   post-construction, provide maintenance for all landscaped medians,
islands, and mowable areas behind the curb and within the median
City streets that will be reconstructed with this project include:
   ·   Hogrefe Road
   ·   Falcon Ridge Drive
   ·   Old Bristow Road
   ·   Bristow Lakes Drive
   ·   Calvary Road
   ·   Williamswood Road
   ·   Delaware Crossing
   ·   Old Madison Pike
Mr. Groth explained the State has also agreed to take over maintenance of short
Richardson Road in exchange for the City taking ownership and maintenance of
the bypassed areas of KY 536 which include:
   ·   Old KY 536 (Bristow Road) from Williamswood Drive to the intersection
with the proposed KY 536 Connector Road, approximately 0.10 miles west of the
junction with KY 2045 (Independence Rd). A total distance of approximately 0.66
miles.
   ·   Old KY 536 (Independence Rd & Shaw Rd) from the junction with KY 2045
and Bristow Road to the intersection with the New KY 536 near station 321+00. A
total distance of approximately 0.57 miles.
Mr. Groth also advised he asked the State the resurface and stripe these
bypassed segments of roadway prior to the City taking over the future
maintenance. He stated the City is taking more roadway sections but will have
less future maintenance. He also reported the State has agreed to install
street lights and pay for the electricity in the roundabouts that will be
constructed in this project. He stated that any grass or landscaping installed
in the roundabouts would be the maintenance responsibility of the City. Mr.
Groth commented that the start of this road project is probably five years down
the road and that the sitting Mayor and Council at that time will make the
final decision on any landscaping/grass that will be installed. He advised that
it is still uncertain if the State has decreased the number of roundabouts as
requested by Council last year from the proposed nine that was originally
presented in the State’s design. He stated there are four phases of
construction and the State is currently in the environmental phase of this
project.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adopt Resolution No. 2014-R-02. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth stated he did not have anything to report.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Executive Orders - Mayor Yeager presented Executive Order No. 2014-EO-01
appointing Council Members Jim Bushong and Bill Aseere as the City’s primary
and alternate representatives to the Northern Kentucky Area Planning Council
and Executive Order No. 2014-EO-02 re-appointing Council Member Chris
Reinersman to represent the City on the OKI Board of Directors.
Audit ending June 30, 2013 - Mayor Yeager presented to Council the City’s Audit
Report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013. She advised Council to direct
any questions or concerns about the audit to Mr. Groth or Finance Director
Teresa Hudson.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Reinersman
and seconded by Council Member Bushong to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:28 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
March 10, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Monday, March 10, 2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris
Reinersman. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator
Dan Groth and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters announced this Special meeting of Council was
being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Approval of February 3, 2014 Council Meeting Minutes
   ·   Ordinance No. 2014-O-01 – Amending Ordinance No. 2007-O-22 & Adopting
the 2013 Kentucky Building Code as Promulgated in KAR – 2nd Reading
   ·   Ordinance No. 2014-O-02 – Amending Ordinance No. 2007-O-23 & Adopting
the 2013 Kentucky Residential Code – 2nd Reading
   ·   City Administrator Report
   ·   City Attorney Report
   ·   Mayor’s Report
   ·   Executive Session in accordance with KRS 61.810
Approval of the February 3, 2014 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, February 3, 2014. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
by Council Member Reinersman. No amendments were noted and the motion carried
unanimously 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-01 – Amending Ordinance No. 2007-O-22 and Adopting the
2013 Kentucky Building Code as Promulgated in KAR – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2014-O-01 that would
amend Ordinance No. 2007-O-22 and adopt the 2013 Kentucky Building Code as
promulgated in 815 KAR 7:105 by the Board of Housing, Buildings and
Construction. Mr. Deters gave the ordinance a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-01. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-02 – Amending Ordinance No. 2007-O-23 and Adopting the
2013 Kentucky Residential Code – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2014-O-02 that would
amend Ordinance No. 2007-O-23 and adopt the 2013 Kentucky Residential Code that
would apply to all one and two family dwellings and townhouses located within
the City limits and which are fabricated, erected, constructed, enlarged,
altered and or repaired together with such appurtenances and accessory
structures. This code also provides for the issuance of permits and provides
for penalties for the violation of any provision of the code. Mr. Deters gave
the ordinance a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-02. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported the Heritage Park Apartments on Richardson Road has been
sold and the new owner has begun rehabilitating the complex. He stated they
have obtained all their permits and started working replacing the roof. He
advised the new owners have renamed the apartment complex to Country Club
Estates.
Mr. Groth also reported that six subdivisions will be expanding. They include
Williamswood, Glenhurst, Canberra, Meadow Glen, Shadybrook and Battleridge. He
stated twenty single family homes are in the planning stages for a new
development off of Delaware Crossing between the Forest Run Subdivision and
Delaware Crossing Apartments.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report, but requested an
executive session.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager stated she did not have anything to report.
Executive Session
At 7:05 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by
Council Member Little to go into an executive session in accordance with KRS
61.810 (b) to deliberate possible land acquisition and KRS 61.810 (c) to
discuss pending litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:55 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by
Council Member Franzen to resume the regular meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:56 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
April 7, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 7,
2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager presiding.
Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge of
Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also present was
City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan Groth and City Clerk
Patricia Taney.
Approval of the March 10, 2014 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Monday, March 10, 2014. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Little. No amendments to the minutes were noted and the motion
carried with all ayes.
Proclamation Presented to the Family Nurturing Center in Support of Child Abuse
Prevention Month
Mayor Yeager welcomed Kathy DeLaura, Director of Donor Relations for the Family
Nurturing Center. Mr. Groth read and presented a Proclamation to Ms. DeLaura
recognizing April 2014 as Child Abuse Prevention Month. Ms. DeLaura thanked
Mayor Yeager and Council and stated they appreciated the City’s support of the
Blue Ribbon campaign to help spread awareness of the issue of child abuse in
our communities. She stated the Family Nurturing Center has partnered with the
Bank of Kentucky to promote the campaign with all bank branches displaying Blue
Ribbon educational material and offering blue ribbon pins, wristbands, donor
cards and pinwheels.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced this year’s annual Easter Egg Hunt for children ages nine
and under would take place at Memorial Park at noon on Saturday, April 12,
2014. He stated the Recreation Director has reported that six thousand eggs
will be hidden on the park grounds. He suggested participants arrive early to
register for baskets that will be given away.
Mr. Groth also reported that the City’s intent to apply for the Land and Water
Conservation grant that was presented to Council a couple months ago and
ultimately had to be aborted due to lack of funds, has now been revived because
the R.C. Durr Foundation has pledged $60,000 as the City’s matching funds for
the grant. The grant application is for a park improvement project to terrace
the hillside between the Senior Center and the Amphitheater at Memorial Park.
He advised the Public Hearing to get citizen input on this project, and which
is a required part of the grant application, has been re-scheduled for
Wednesday, April 16 at 5:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers.
Council Member Tom Brinker who chairs the Independence Park Board thanked Board
Member David Cain for securing this grant from the R.C. Durr Foundation on
behalf of the City. He stated this grant application is a 50% match for the
project cost of approximately $120,000.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report, but would need a brief
executive session to report on pending litigation and discussion of possible
land acquisition.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager stated she did not have anything to report.
Executive Session
At 7:15 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by
Council Member Little to go into an executive session in accordance with KRS
61.810 (b) to deliberate possible land acquisition and KRS 61.810 (c) to
discuss pending litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:38 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council
Member Reinersman to resume the regular meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:39 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 5, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 5,
2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager presiding.
Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge of
Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also present was
City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan Groth and City Clerk
Patricia Taney.
Presentation of FEMA Funds by Kenton County Judge Executive Steve Arlinghaus
Judge Executive Arlinghaus presented Mayor Yeager with a check for $4,670 which
is the City’s portion of FEMA funds obtained by the County for expenses arising
from the tornado that hit the County in March 2012. He reminded everyone of the
tornado damage that hit the southern portion of the County and these funds will
help reimburse the City for some of the expenses incurred by the police and
public works departments for their assistance with the cleanup. Judge
Arlinghaus also presented a check in the amount of $5,035 to Chief
Messingschlager of the Independence Fire District. He stated the County was
very appreciative of the City and Fire District’s efforts in assisting the
County with the aftermath of the tornado.
Presentation – Daughters of the American Revolution Stephens Project – Pam
Marcum
Pam Marcum advised Council that the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR)
has initiated the Stephens Project to honor Lt. William Stephens who owned a
farm on Stephens Road where the graves of his son John R. Stephens and John’s
wife Elizabeth Beale Stephens are located. It is also believed that Lt.
Stephens is also buried on this farm at 751 Stephens Road. Ms. Marcum advised
the purpose of the Stephens Project is to honor Lt. William Stephens with a
Revolutionary War grave marker. She stated they plan to have a special ceremony
in the fall to honor Lt. Stephens for his military service at which time they
will place a marker at the grave site. Ms. Marcum advised Lt. Stephens has a
large number of direct descendants and they plan on locating and contacting
them with an invitation to participate in the Grave Marking Ceremony.
Mayor Yeager offered the City’s assistance if Ms. Marcum needed it. Council
Member Reinersman commented that he currently owns the Metcalf-Stephens house
on Madison Pike which is listed on the National Registry of Historic Places and
keeps in contact with the Stephens family.
Approval of the April 7, 2014 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, April 7, 2014. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments to the minutes were noted and the motion
carried with all ayes.
Proclamation – Building Safety Month
Mr. Groth presented City Building Inspector Kevin Barbian with a Proclamation
declaring May as Building Safety Month to create awareness to the importance of
construction and building codes and spotlight the role of the code officials in
administering those codes. Mr. Barbian thanked Council for the recognition. He
advised Council that during the month building officials throughout the State
visit schools to promote building safety as well summer safety. He also took
the opportunity to encourage citizens to obtain building permits to ensure
safety in all construction projects on their property.
Announcement – Armed Forces Day – Bill Schneider
Council Member Bill Aseere introduced Bill Schneider, a local military veteran.
Mr. Schneider advised Council that Armed Forces Day is Saturday, May 17th. He
stated it is a challenge to get people to recognize this special day set aside
each year to honor all branches of our military personnel. Mr. Schneider
announced the American Legion Moon Brothers 275 would be holding an
appreciation event at the Independence Senior Center on Saturday from 11:00
a.m. to 4:00 p.m. He stated there will be food and drink concessions available,
live music and vintage military vehicles displayed. He encouraged everyone to
stop by to meet and thank our military members for their patriotic service. Mr.
Schneider thanked the City for assistance in publicizing Armed Forces Day on
the City’s marquee, website and Facebook page.
Mr. Schneider also mentioned that National Peace Officer’s Day is Thursday, May
15th and on Memorial Day there will be a ceremony at the Memorial Oaks of South
Kenton in front of Simon Kenton High School.
Announcement – Kenton County YMCA Outdoor Pool (Marshall Road) Reopening
Mr. Groth introduced Jason Roberts, representing the Kenton County YMCA who
wished to address Council about the reopening of the Marshall Road location of
the YMCA. Council Member Aseere commented that he recently met with Mr. Roberts
and has joined the effort to get this pool reopened, which was closed in 2008.
Mr. Roberts stated he is a long-time resident of Independence and in his youth
spent time at the local YMCA pool which included coaching a swim team. He
spearheaded the effort to get the pool reopened. He stated the residential
growth in Independence could support this reopening and would be a great place
for family gatherings and family fitness. He stated his goal would be to see
this become a vibrant family center for the community.
Mr. Roberts advised they need a minimum of 100 memberships to get the pool
reopened by June 2nd. He stated memberships in year past reached 370. He stated
the pool would be open daily from noon until 6 p.m. for the summer season. He
stated there is a possibility to be open longer hours but that would be
contingent on strong community support. Mr. Roberts advised the need for
volunteer plumbing work to get the baby pool operational and encouraged anyone
with plumbing skills to contact him.
Council Member Franzen stated she would pass the information along to the swim
team coach at Simon Kenton High School. Council Member Reinersman commented
that this could be a great opportunity for the local businesses to sponsor the
pool reopening.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth announced that the City’s current contract with Rumpke for curbside
trash and recycling pickup will expire on June 30, 2014. He stated the current
contract allows for a two year extension. He advised that he along with other
City representatives recently met with Rumpke to discuss the two-year extension
along with adding some services like twice a year curbside large item pickups.
He stated that Rumpke was receptive to adding some services for a nominal
increase in the monthly rate for the next two-year cycle. Mr. Groth advised
that there will be a spring and fall large item pickup and no charge for the
large recycling container. Currently the small red recycling bin is provided
free of charge, but if a resident would request the large recycling container
they would not have to pay the $1.00/month fee. He sated the new monthly rate
that would include the additional services, would be $12.08 effective July 1,
2014.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Executive Order No. 2014-EO-04 - Mayor Yeager presented Executive Order No.
2014-EO-04 appointing Rita King and Jenny Paul to the Board of Directors of the
Independence Senior Citizens Center, Inc.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report and there was no need for
an executive session.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Reinersman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:27 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
May 19, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Monday, May 19, 2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris
Reinersman. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator
Dan Groth and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters announced this Special meeting of Council was
being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Amending Budget Ordinance No. 2013-O-04 for the
2013/2014 Fiscal Year – 1st Reading
   ·   Mayor’s 2014/2015 Budget Address
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2014/2015 Budget – 1st Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Personnel Pay & Classification Schedule –
1st Reading
   ·   Award Bid for 2014 Street Repairs Program
   ·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Amended 2013-2014 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend the 2013-2014 budget. Mr. Deters gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2014-2015 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance that
would adopt a budget for the 2014/2015 fiscal year. In the Mayor’s budget
message, she indicated the projected revenues are $7,206,485 and that the major
concern this year was making road repairs and hiring another full time Public
Works employee and purchasing another dump truck. Mr. Deters gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Bushong commented this is the first time he has not had some
participation in the budget process and advised he would like more time to
review the budget that has been presented. Mayor Yeager stated she would be
happy to sit down with him and any Council Member that would like to discuss it
in more detail. Mr. Groth also stated he would be available to meet with
anyone. Council Member Franzen commented that she assumed there is still time
to discuss it before the second reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Pay and Classification Plan – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will adopt
an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2014/2015 fiscal year. Mr.
Deters read the proposed ordinance.
Award Bid for 2014 Street Repairs Program
Dan Groth reported the City received eight bids for the 2014 Street Program. He
yielded the floor to Dan Koch, Public Services Director who advised that the
eight bids ranged from a low of $449,230 to a high of $588,685.25. Mr. Koch
recommended the contract be awarded to Len Riegler Blacktop who presented the
lowest and best bid. He advised the City has worked with Riegler Blacktop in
the past and feels they are a good contractor.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to award the 2014 Street Repair Program to Len Riegler in the amount of
$449,230.00. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
City Attorney – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised there was no need for an executive session.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Reinersman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:06 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
June 2, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 2,
2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager presiding.
Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge of
Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also present was
City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Dan Groth and City Clerk
Patricia Taney.
Approval of the May 5, 2014 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, May 5, 2014. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second by
Council Member Brinker. No amendments to the minutes were noted and the motion
carried with all ayes.
Approval of the May 19, 2014 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Monday, May 19, 2014. Council Member Little so moved, with second by
Council Member Bushong. No amendments to the minutes were noted and the motion
carried with all ayes.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-03 – Amending the 2013/14 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2014-O-03, an
ordinance that would amend the 2013/2014 budget. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No.
2014-O-03.
Council Member Bushong made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-03, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-04 – Adopting the 2014/15 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for a second reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt the budget for the 2014/2015 fiscal year. City Attorney, Mr.
Deters gave Ordinance No. 2014-O-04 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-04. There being no discussion, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0 to adopt the 2014/2015
budget as presented
Ordinance No. 2014-O-05 – Adopting a Personnel Classification & Pay Plan – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2014-O-05- that will
adopt an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2014/2015 fiscal year.
Mr. Deters read Ordinance No. 2014-O-05.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-05 enacting a personnel and pay
classification plan for City employees. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Rumpke Contract Amendment
Mr. Groth presented to Council a proposed contract modification from Rumpke for
the collection of solid waste and recyclable material from residential dwelling
units. He stated this would be a two-year renewal at a lower rate that the
original bids received by competing companies. Mr. Groth advised the additional
services in the contract amendment are the result of resident feedback. He
stated for the period July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2016 for an amended rate of
$12.44 per month the additional services will include:
   ·   one time per month single large item pickup when given a minimum 48 hour
advance notice
   ·   will allow reasonable volume of additional waste to be placed alongside
the trash container during the week of Christmas, limited to the equivalent of
up to (6) 30-gallon cans or bags
   ·   will provide yard waste and leaf collection pickup up to four times each
year
   ·   will provide the City up to (4) 30-yard containers each year for special
events not to exceed a period of two weeks
   ·   shall provide the City up to (20) portable toilets each year in lieu of
a cash donation and in exchange for annual event sponsorship
Mr. Groth explained that the leaf pickup will be schedule in advance for the
residents and the will be notified of the dates in advance as well.
Council Member Brinker stated this was a game changer for him and he would not
have voted to renew the contract with Rumpke based on the service the last two
years. Mr. Groth commented that a meeting was held with the Rumpke
representative to discuss and address the complaints received from the
residents over the last couple of years, and he feels this contract amendment
will resolve some of those issues. Council Member Reinersman commented that
Rumpke has provided more in this amendment that we had asked for. Council
Member Little stated he feels this is an excellent rate for the additional
services.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Little
and seconded by Council Member Reinersman to extend the Rumpke contract for the
collection of solid waste and recyclable materials for an additional two year
term beginning July 1, 2014 through June 30, 2016 and authorize the Mayor to
enter into the contract. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Park & Recreation Update
Council Member Brinker reported the following City recreational activities:
   ·   June 7 – Movie – The Zoo Keeper
   ·   June 16 through 19 – Basketball Camp
   ·   June 27 – Madcap Puppets – The Enchanted World
Council Member Bushong asked for an update on the Amphitheater grant
application. Council Member Brinker advised the grant application would be for
the next fiscal year budget. Mr. Groth commented there has been no word yet on
our grant application.
Council Member Brinker, who is Chairman of the Parks and Recreation Committee,
also reported that the Committee is discussing short term and long term park
improvements.
City Administrator Report – Dan Groth
Mr. Groth reported that the Northern Kentucky Hates Heroin will hold a 5K Run
in Independence on June 7, 2014. He stated that several hundred participants
have registered to date. They are expecting a very large crowd.
Discussion Relating to Sewer and Water Line Marketing License Agreement with
Service Line Warranties of America
Mr. Groth presented to Council for their consideration, a marketing license
agreement proposal by Service Line Warranties of America that would grant this
company the right to offer a warranty to property owners within the City
limits. In the agreement the City would grant Service Line Warranties of
America a non-exclusive license to use the City’s name and logo on letterhead,
bills and marketing materials to be sent to City property owners. Mr. Groth
explained that SD1 does not service lateral sewer lines as the lines are on
private properties, so any necessary repairs would fall on the property owners
which can be costly. He stated that Mr. Deters would take some time to read the
entire warranty program before the Council decides if they want to endorse this
program for its residents, then Council could take this under further
consideration next month. Mr. Deters expressed some concern regarding this
program and advised he would look into it further.
Resolution No. 2014-R-04
Mayor Yeager presented to Council Resolution No. 2014-R-04 concerning
Sanitation District #1 proposed increase of wastewater and storm water service
fees. SD1 notified the City they would be accepting comments regarding the
proposed fees to be charged to its customers which would be reflected on the
bills beginning in August.
Mr. Groth commented that Resolution No. 2014-R-04 opposes the rate increases.
He read Resolution No. 2014-R-04.
A motion was made by Council Member Aseere and seconded by Council Member
Franzen. After a few brief comments from Council Members, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0. Mr. Groth advised a copy of the
Resolution would be provided to the Mayor’s Group for their consideration as
well.
Mr. Groth announced that Independence has been listed as the 13th (out of top
50) safest city in Kentucky in a recent report issued by SafeWise. He stated
that SafeWise is in the home security and safety industry.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters advised he did not have anything to report but would need to discuss
pending litigation in an executive session.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager had nothing to report.
Executive Session
At 7:22 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by
Council Member Little to go into an executive session in accordance with KRS
61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:52 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council
Member Franzen to resume the regular meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Bushong to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:52 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
July 24, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Thursday, July 24, 2014 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman.
Council Member Carol Franzen was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K.
Deters, City Clerk Patricia Taney, Zoning Administrator Annie Wuestefeld and
Public Services Director Dan Koch.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters announced this Special meeting of Council was
being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Amending Chapter 91 of the Code of Ordinances
Relating to Animals – 1st Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – ABC License Amendment – 1st Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Re-Naming of Street – 1st Reading
   ·   Award Bid for Concrete
   ·   Award Bid for Purchase of Public Works Dump Truck
   ·   Resolution No. 2014-R-05 – MRA Co-Op Agreement for 2014-2015
   ·   Authorize Financing of 4 Police Cruisers and Related Equipment
   ·   Executive Session in accordance with KRS 61.810 (c) to discuss pending
litigation and KRS 61.810 (f) a personnel appointment
Mr. Deters advised that only the items listed on this agenda would be discussed
at this meeting which included discussion in an executive session to appoint a
new City Administrator.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Chapter 91 of the Code of Ordinances Relating to
Animals – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would modify the
Code of Ordinances, specifically Chapter 91, Animals, to define “fowl” and
“livestock” and prohibit the keeping or harboring of them within residential
zones on a lot of land that is less than ten acres. Mayor Yeager opened the
discussion with Council.
Council Members Little and Reinersman expressed some reservations with
requiring ten acres. They felt that it was too large of an area and suggested
five acres or less. Council Member Little stated he favors protecting property
owners’ rights as long as their rights don’t infringe on other owners’ rights.
Council Members Brinker, Bushong and Aseere also agreed that ten acres was too
large of an area and felt it should be less – one to five acres. Council Member
Aseere stated he would like more time to review this issue.
Dan Evans, Kenton County Animal Control, was present to address any questions
from Council. He stated that agricultural land is defined as any tract of ten
acres or more of land and that ten acres is feasible for a couple of horses,
etc. He stated the City could lower the acreage requirement to whatever they
feel is appropriate for the keeping of chickens.
Other concerns expressed by Council regarding the keeping of chickens was the
crowing and odor of these animals. Mr. Deters advised the crowing could be
addressed under the noise nuisance ordinance. Council Member Reinersman stated
he was aware of a particular situation in the Liberty Orchard subdivision where
the chickens, while contained within a fence, were flying over the fence and
becoming a nuisance in the neighborhood. Mr. Evans commented that roaming
chickens is not allowed and is a citable offense, if the City regulates this
type of animal.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to table action of this proposed ordinance until these concerns could be
addressed in more detail. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – ABC License Amendment – 1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would amend
Ordinance No. 2013-O-15 regulating the Alcohol Beverage Control. Mr. Deters
advised Council that this amendment was a housekeeping issue to update the
schedule of license types and associated fees. Mr. Deters read the proposed
ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Re-Naming of Rice Road (off Mills Road) to Coppage Court –
1st Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would re-name a
portion of Rice Road that runs off of Mills Road. This segment of Rice Road is
disconnected from the Rice Road that runs off of Klette Road. Mr. Deters read
the proposed ordinance that would change this segment of Rice Road to Coppage
Court. Council Member Reinersman asked if property owners had any objections to
the new name. Mrs. Wuestefeld, Zoning Administrator, responded there is only
one other property owner on this section of Rice Road and the property is not
occupied.
Award Bid for Concrete
Mayor Yeager presented to Council one bid that was received from Ernst Concrete
for the purchase of concrete needed for the City’s various small concrete
projects during the year.
Dan Koch, Public Services Director advised Council that the new subdivision
regulations now have updated specifications for the concrete mix used in street
construction. He advised this had been bid out last year, but because of the
new mixture requirements and the increased cost associated with the new mixture
it was decided to put this out for bids. Mr. Koch stated only one bid was
received from Ernst Concrete in the amount of $87/yard. He stated the price
quoted in the last contract for the old mixture was $67/yard. He also advised
Council that this concrete mixture will only be used for small projects that
his department does in house.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Little to accept the concrete mix bid from Ernst Concrete at a price of $87/
yard. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Award Bid for Purchase of Public Works Dump Truck
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a bid from Fuller Ford for the purchase of a
Ford 550 dump truck for the Public Works Department.
Dan Koch, Public Services Director, advised he received phone inquiries from
four dealerships but only received one bid, which was from Fuller Ford. He
stated he has learned that most dealerships feel they can’t compete with
Fuller’s low price which may explain the reason he did not received any other
bids.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to accept the bid from Fuller Ford in the amount of $65,970 for the
purchase of a Ford 550 Series, 4-wheel drive, dump truck for the Public Works
Department. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2014-R-05 – Adopting and Approving the Execution of the
Municipal Aid Cooperative Program Contract with the Kentucky Transportation
Cabinet for the 2014-2015 Fiscal Year
Resolution No. 2014-R-05 was presented to Council which would adopt and approve
the execution of the Municipal Aid Cooperative Program contract with the
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for the 2014-2015 fiscal year. Mr. Deters read
Resolution No. 2014-R-05.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Resolution No. 2014-R-05. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Authorize Financing of 4 Police Cruisers and Related Equipment
Mayor Yeager presented to Council two financing proposals received by the
police department for the financing of four new cruisers.
Council Member Bushong expressed concern that the police department was only
getting four new cars this year instead of the five cars they typically
procure. He requested that next year during the budget meetings that the needs
of the police department be considered so that they keep their annual five car
rotation schedule.
Assistant Police Chief Dave Nichols advised Council that two bank financing
quotes were obtained – one from Park National Bank and the other from US Bank.
He reported that both interest rates (2.48% from Park and 2.25% from US Bank)
were close, but that the deciding factor for him was the financing fees which
US Bank will waive and Park National will not. Park National Bank indicated
their fees could vary between $500-$1000.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to authorize the financing of four police cruisers and related equipment
with US Bank for an interest rate of 2.25% for a period of three years. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Executive Session
At 6:23 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation and K.R.S.
61.810 (f) to discuss a personnel issue. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:03 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes.
Municipal Order No. 2014-MO-01 – Appointment to the Position of City
Administrator
Mr. Deters announced that Council discussed in executive session filling the
City Administrator position that was recently vacated by Dan Groth on July 15,
2014 and would like to put forth Municipal Order 2014-MO-01 authorizing the
appointment of Christian J. Moriconi to the position.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Little to approve the appointment of Christian J. Moriconi to the position of
City Administrator. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-
0.
Mr. Deters advised this Municipal Order would be presented again at the regular
meeting of Council on August 4, 2014 for further confirmation since the only
mention of this personnel action on the agenda was under the Executive Session
item.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Reinersman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:04 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
August 4, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 4,
2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager presiding.
Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge of
Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, and Chris Reinersman. Council Member Mike Little
was absent. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters and City Clerk
Patricia Taney.
Proclamation – Simon Kenton High School Baseball Team
Mayor Yeager along with Council Member Carol Franzen presented the Simon Kenton
High School baseball team with a Proclamation in recognition of their
extraordinary team efforts during the 2013-2014 record setting season, winning
the first regional championship in the school’s history, and going on to play
in the State Championship game. Council Member Franzen read the Proclamation.
Approval of the June 2, 2014 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, June 2, 2014. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments to the minutes were noted and the motion
carried unanimously 5-0.
Approval of the July 24, 2014 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Thursday, July 24, 2014. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second
by Council Member Reinersman. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll was
called and answered with four ayes and one abstention from Council Member
Franzen. Motion carried.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-06 – Amending the ABC License Schedule – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council Ordinance No. 2014-O-06 that would amend
Ordinance No. 2013-O-15 regulating the Alcohol Beverage Control. Mr. Deters
advised Council that this amendment was a housekeeping issue to update the
schedule of license types and associated fees. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No.
2014-O-06.
A Motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-06. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-07 – Re-Naming of Rice Road (off Mills Road) to Coppage
Court – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented to Council Ordinance No. 2014-O-07 that would re-name a
portion of Rice Road that runs off of Mills Road. Mr. Deters read Ordinance No.
2014-O-07.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-07. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Municipal Order No. 2014-MO-01 – Appointing Chris Moriconi as City
Administrator
Mr. Deters advised Council that Municipal Order No. 2014-MO-01 appointing Chris
Moriconi to fill the vacant position of City Administrator was presented at the
Special Council Meeting of July 27, 2014. He stated the possible appointment
was discussed in an Executive Session which was listed on the Special Meeting
agenda and action was taken in open session to make the appointment official.
Mr. Deters stated that he felt it would be wise to further confirm this
appointment at a regular meeting prior to Mr. Moriconi starting his position.
Mr. Deters read Municipal Order No. 2014-MO-01.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to ratify Municipal Order No. 2014-MO-01. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Approve Financing Agreement for Ford 550 Dump Truck for Public Services
Department
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a financing proposal by US Bank for the
purchase of a new dump truck for the Public Works Department. Dan Koch, Public
Services Director stated US Bank has provided an interest rate of 2.35% which
is the same rate they quoted the City for the financing of four police
cruisers. He stated the purchase price of the new truck will be $65,970. Mr.
Koch advised this new truck will give the department a total of six trucks
which will enable them to run all the snow removal routes this year and not
depend on the County to assist them with this service to the residents.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to approve the financing proposal from US Bank that will structure the
$65,970 expense over a three year lease payment period at an interest rate of
2.35%. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Award Bid – Reliance Court Street Repairs
Mayor Yeager presented to Council the bids analysis from the City Engineer for
the Reliance Court and Cobblestone Boulevard Roadway Improvements project.
Public Services Director Dan Koch reported that four bids were received with
the highest bid from M & W Excavation in the amount of $214,337.50 and the
lowest bid from Straight Edge Construction in the amount of $158,960. He stated
the City Engineer’s pre-bid estimate for this project was $168,330. Mr. Koch
stated that Straight Edge is a company from Bracken County who is currently
doing their first residential project for the City of Edgewood. He stated he
has spoken to a representative of the City of Edgewood who reports they have
not had a problem so far with this contractor, but they have three weeks
remaining before completion of that project. There was a brief discussion about
taking the low bid from a contractor that was a relative newcomer to
residential construction. Mr. Koch advised the next lowest bidder was from JPS
Construction in the amount of $168,695 – a difference of $9,735. He stated he
would like to recommend taking the bid from JPS Construction since this is a
contractor that has a good reputation and one the City is familiar with having
a satisfactory work history on past road projects.
A motion was made by Council Member Brinker and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to award the bid for the Reliance Court and Cobblestone Boulevard
Roadway Improvements to JPS Construction as the best bid submitted in the
amount of $168,695.00. Roll was called and answered with four ayes and one no
vote cast by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried 4-1.
Approval of Stage II Development Plan Review for Taco Bell Restaurant Located
at 2019 Centennial Blvd.
City Attorney Jed Deters presented to Council a staff recommendation from the
Planning Commission regarding a Stage II Development Plan for a Taco Bell
Restaurant on an approximate .29 acre site located at 2019 Centennial
Boulevard.
Greg Wolf with GSC Foods, Inc. spoke on behalf of Taco Bell. He stated they are
excited to be building a Taco Bell in Independence which will be located behind
the Walgreen’s. Mr. Wolf advised his company has recently built one store on
Mount Zion Road and another one on 3-L Highway is set to open on Wednesday. He
stated the design of the Centennial Boulevard restaurant will be identical to
the one on Mount Zion Road. Council Member Bushong asked when the new store
would open. Mr. Wolf stated it would open ninety days after construction starts
and they hoped to begin construction by the end of this month.
Council Member Reinersman commented that the new Taco Bell meets the building
requirements of the Planning Commission. Mr. Deters stated that the Planning
Commission is recommending approval subject to two conditions; that the
proposed signage on the site be in compliance with the approved Stage I
Development Plan and that the drainage calculations and design of the regional
retention basin to be used by the site shall be provided which show that on-
site storm water management will not be required and that these conditions
shall be met prior to the issuance of any permits.
There being no concerns by Council or further discussion, a motion was made by
Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member Aseere to accept the
recommendation of the Planning Commission staff and approve the Stage II
development plan review for the Taco Bell Restaurant to be located at 2019
Centennial Boulevard. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
5-0.
Resolution No. 2014-R-06 – Authorizing the Filing of an Application to the
PDSKC for a Text Amendment to the Official Zoning Ordinance of the City to Add
Development Controls in the NC, NSC and PO Zones
Mr. Deters presented to Council and read Resolution No. 2014-R-06 that would
authorize the filing of an application to the Planning and Development Services
of Kenton County (PDSKD) for a proposed zoning text amendment to the official
zoning ordinance of the city to add development controls in the NC, NSC and PO
zones.
Council Member Reinersman advised that there have been recent concerns relating
to building materials used for exterior surfaces in some commercial zones in
the City. He stated he has worked with Ehmet Hayes and the Planning Commission
to set building standards with some restrictions on the types of building
materials that can be used as well as providing screening of mechanical
equipment. He stated the Family Dollar store on Richardson Road sparked the
concern for this type of regulation as this commercial building is on a very
visible corner.
Council Member Franzen made a motion, seconded by Council Member Reinersman to
adopt Resolution No. 2014-R-06. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2014-R-07 – Approving the Transfer of Time Warner Cable to
Comcast Corporation
Mayor Yeager presented to Council Resolution No. 2014-R-07 that would approve
the transfer of control of Time Warner Cable to Comcast Corporation. Council
Member Reinersman stated he spoke to a representative of the Telecommunications
Board who conveyed the transfer of ownership will be a good move the City
should support as cable subscribers will receive better service and cable
quality. Council Member Franzen commented that the transfer would allow the
franchise to continue.
A motion was made by Council Member Brinker and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to adopt Resolution No. 2014-R-07 approving the transfer of control of
Time Warner Cable to Comcast Corporation. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Independence Pointe Subdivision
Council Member Brinker advised Council that the on-going problem with the
maintenance of the hillside at the entrance of the Independence Pointe
Subdivision continues. He stated that the owner of the hillside parcel plays
the game of not cutting the grass, until he gets a violation notice from the
City and then the hillside still doesn’t get cut until the City send its
contractor to do it and then the City liens the property for the cost. He
advised the hillside has not been cut this summer. He asked Mr. Deters how the
City could speed up the process of getting this violation taken care of in a
timelier manner. Mr. Deters suggested meeting with the Zoning Administrator to
discuss the options available to the City. Council Member Brinker asked that
the Zoning Administrator, along with a copy of the ordinance that addresses
these violations, attend the next meeting to discuss this issue.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters reported that in late June the City had a request by Revere’s
Crossing LLC to annex a parcel that abuts the Revere’s Crossing Subdivision so
they could build the next phase of the subdivision and keep the entire
development within the City limits. He stated the regular July meeting was
cancelled and a special meeting was held in late July. Mr. Deters advised he
would like to go into an executive session to discuss this annexation request
as there has been some threat of litigation since the City has not responded to
their annexation request. He stated any action the Council would decide to take
would be done when they reconvene the regular session.
Recreation Update
Council Member Brinker announced that the movie Frozen would be shown at the
Amphitheater on Saturday, August 23rd at dusk.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager stated she had nothing to report.
Executive Session
At 7:35 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by
Council Member Aseere to go into an executive session in accordance with KRS
61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:23 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by
Council Member Franzen to resume the regular meeting.
Annexation Request by Revere’s Crossing LLC – 5303 Fowler Creek Road
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to deny consideration of the annexation request at this time of an
approximate 24 acre parcel located at 5303 Fowler Creek Road (PIDN 046-00-00-
071.00) due to non-compliance of KRS 81A.470. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Brinker to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:25 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 8, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
8, 2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager
presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge
of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also
present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator Chris Moriconi and
City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Approval of the August 4, 2014 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, August 4, 2014. Council Member Bushong so moved, with second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendments to the minutes were noted and the motion
carried with five ayes and one abstention from Council Member Little.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2014 Real and Personal Property Tax Rates – 1st
Reading
The proposed ordinance to adopt the 2014 property tax rates was presented by
City Administrator Chris Moriconi. He noted that the rates being proposed were
the same rates as 2013. Mr. Deters read the proposed ordinance that would adopt
a real estate rate of $0.237/$100 of assessed value and a personal property
rate of $0.656/$100 of assessed value. Council Member Bushong requested an
updated list of tax rates adopted by other local cities to see how Independence
compares.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Fowler Creek Sewer Fund by Setting Parameters
for Delinquencies and Authorizing Administration Fees for Transfer to General
Fund – 1st Reading
Chris Moriconi, City Administrator submitted to Council a proposed ordinance
relating to the Fowler Creek Sewer Fund which would provide for the allocation
of certain expenses against the Fowler Creek Sewer Fund, setting parameters for
delinquencies and authorizing the transfer of administration costs and expenses
from the Fowler Creek Sewer funds to the General Fund. Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance. A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Reinersman
expressed concern that the language of the ordinance may be confusing and sound
as if the current properties being assessed would actually be paying on this
assessment longer since the fund would remain on the books after the retirement
of the debt. Mr. Deters explained the intent is that the books of this fund
would remain open solely for the collection of the delinquent accounts and the
language will be changed to clarify that before the second reading of the
ordinance.
Resolution No. 2014-R-08 – Approving the Transfer of Comcast Cable to Charter
Mayor Yeager presented to Council Resolution No. 2014-R-08 that would approve
the transfer of control of Comcast Corporation of Insight Kentucky Partners to
Charter Communications. Mr. Moriconi advised this is the second step in the
merger of Time Warner Cable to Comcast. Council Member Reinersman commented
that he spoke with Tim Broering of the Telecommunications Board who explained
that Comcast has agreed to transfer a portion of its post-merger (Time Warner
Cable to Comcast) subscribers to Charter Communications thereby trading
subscribers in different markets which will let them operate more efficiently
and keep within the regulations of the FCC (Federal Communications Commission).
Council Member Bushong made a motion, seconded by Council Member Reinersman, to
approve Resolution No. 2014-R-08. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Declaring Surplus Property – City Owned Vehicles and Computer Equipment
Mayor Yeager presented to Council a list of city owned property to be declared
as surplus items to be either auctioned or recycled. The list included six
police cruisers, four police bikes, cruiser equipment, refrigerator, microwave
oven, modems, cameras, monitors, portable radios, computer docking stations,
marine band radios, laptop computers, printer, keyboards, computer towers and
miscellaneous computer accessories. The items that could be auctioned would be
placed in the Kenton County auction that will be held on Saturday, September
27, 2014.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to declare the list of presented items as surplus property for disposal
by auction or recycling. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jed K. Deters
Mr. Deters stated he did not have anything to report, but requested an
Executive Session to discuss pending litigation.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi announced that bids for the City’s banking services are due by 10:
00 a.m. on Thursday, September 11th at which time they will be opened.
He also reported that a survey conducted by Motovo real estate blog has ranked
Independence as the fourth safest city in Kentucky. He stated that Motovo
utilizes statistics from the FBI’s crime data.
Update on Independence Pointe Subdivision entrance
Council Member Brinker reported that the entrance to the Independence Pointe
Subdivision was mowed but the grass is high again. He suggested a change to the
nuisance ordinance. Mr. Deters advised we can issue a five-day notice to the
property owner and post immediately after the five day notice has expired to
speed up the process.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager stated she had nothing to report.
Executive Session
At 7:11 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by
Council Member Little to go into an executive session in accordance with KRS
61.810 (c) and (f) to discuss pending litigation and personnel issues. Motion
carried with all ayes.
At 8:36 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by
Council Member Franzen to resume the regular meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Bushong to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:37 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
September 12, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in special session
on Friday, September 12, 2014 at 5:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. An invocation was given by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris
Reinersman. Also present was City Attorney Jed K. Deters, City Administrator
Chris Moriconi and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters announced this Special meeting of Council was
being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Ordinance No. 2014-O-08 – Adopting the 2014 Property Tax Rates – 2nd
Reading
   ·   Ordinance No. 2014-O-09 – Relating to Fowler Creek Sewer Fund by Setting
Parameters for Delinquencies and Authorizing Administration Fees to be
Transferred to the General Fund – 2nd Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Text Amendment Adding Construction Standards
for Exterior Wall Materials, Roofs & Mechanicals to the NC, NSC and PO Zones –
1st Reading
   ·   Executive Session in Accordance with KRS 61.810 (c) and (f)
Ordinance No. 2014-O-08 – Adopting the 2014 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a second reading Ordinance No. 2014-O-08 that would
adopt the real estate and personal property tax rates for 2014. Mr. Deters gave
the ordinance a second reading that will adopt a real estate tax rate of
$0.237/$100 of assessed value and a personal property tax rate of $0.656/$100
of assessed value. These are the same rates that were adopted for 2013.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-08 with a second by
Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-09 – Relating to Fowler Creek Sewer Fund by Setting
Parameters for Delinquencies and Authorizing Administration Fees to be
Transferred to the General Fund – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager submitted for a second reading Ordinance No. 2014-O-09 relating to
the Fowler Creek Sewer Fund which would provide for the allocation of certain
expenses against the Fowler Creek Sewer Fund, setting parameters for
delinquencies and authorizing the transfer of administration costs and expenses
from the Fowler Creek Sewer funds to the General Fund. Mr. Deters read the
proposed ordinance.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-09. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Text Amendment Adding Construction Standards
for Exterior Wall Materials, Roofs and Mechanicals to the NC, NSC and PO Zones
– 1st Reading
Mr. Deters presented to Council for consideration a proposed ordinance that
would approve a text amendment to the official zoning ordinance that would add
regulations to building design criteria specifically exterior wall materials,
roofs and mechanicals in the Neighborhood Commercial (NC), Neighborhood
Shopping Center (NSC) and the Professional Office (PO) zones. Mr. Deters gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Executive Session
At 6:23 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to enter into an executive session in
accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation and K.R.S.
61.810 (f) to discuss a personnel issue. The motion was seconded by Council
Member Little. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:03 p.m. Council Member Bushong moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Little and
seconded by Council Member Reinersman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:04 p.m.
                     _______________________________
                     Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
October 6, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
6, 2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Donna G. Yeager
presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and opened with the Pledge
of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Executive Order No. 2014-EO-05 – Appointing John J. Osterhage as Interim City
Attorney
City Administrator Chris Moriconi read Mayor Yeager’s Executive Order No. 2014-
EO-05 appointing John J. (Jack) Osterhage as City Attorney during Jed K.
Deter’s absence.
Approval of the September 8, 2014 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, September 8, 2014. Council Member Franzen so moved, with second
by Council Member Aseere. No amendments to the minutes were noted and the
motion carried with all ayes.
Approval of the September 12, 2014 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special meeting
held on Friday, September 12, 2014. Council Member Reinersman so moved, with
second by Council Member Brinker. No amendments to the minutes were noted and
the motion carried with all ayes.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-10 – Approving a Text Amendment Adding Construction
Standards for Exterior Materials, Roofs and Mechanicals to the NC, NSC & PO
Zones – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented Ordinance No. 2014-O-10 for a second reading. This
ordinance would approve a text amendment to the official zoning ordinance that
would add regulations to building design criteria specifically exterior wall
materials, roofs and mechanicals in the Neighborhood Commercial (NC),
Neighborhood Shopping Center (NSC) and the Professional Office (PO) zones.
Council Member Reinersman commented that the reference to architectural grade
building materials in each zone should be eliminated as this was discussed and
agreed upon at the public hearing held by the Planning Commission. No
objections were noted to his suggestion and the language will be stricken from
the final text amendment.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Reinersman to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-10. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2014-R-10 – Approving an Interlocal Agreement with PDS for Code
Enforcement Administration and an Agreement for PDS Levels of Service (One Stop
Shop)
City Administrator Chris Moriconi presented Resolution No. 2014-R-10 that would
authorize an Interlocal agreement with the Planning Commission for
administration of the city’s zoning ordinance, property maintenance codes and
other related local ordinances along with a cost sharing agreement to provide
the service.
Mr. Moriconi explained to Council that the ensuing four items on tonight’s
agenda were dependent on the adoption of Resolution No. 2014-R-10 which would
solidify the decision to go with the Planning Commission for zoning related
services and the other business items are relative to entering into this
agreement. Mr. Moriconi introduced Dennis Gordon, Executive Director of the
Planning Commission (PDS) and Martin Scribner, Director of Planning and Zoning
Administration, also with PDS.
Council Member Reinersman stated there are concerns regarding the fee schedule
and asked Mr. Gordon to explain the reason behind the fee structure. Mr. Gordon
explained at the time the One-Stop-Shop was established a committee was formed
to look at the costs associated with the administration of the service and the
fees were structured based on the actual costs in an effort to recover most of
the those expenses. He stated the fees increase every other year using the
Consumer Price Index. Mr. Gordon also commented that the Home Builders
Association actually prefers small incremental adjustments to the fee schedule
so they can calculate this annually along with their other building costs.
Council Member Reinersman commented that the City’s fee schedule has not been
increased in some time.
Council Member Little asked how many cities are currently using the One-Stop-
Shop. Mr. Gordon advised they currently work with fifteen cities as well as the
Kenton County Fiscal Court. Mr. Gordon was asked if the City decided to
contract for the zoning services would a full time staff member from the PDS be
assigned to Independence and work from the City building. Mr. Gordon advised he
would assign a person to handle Independence full-time and would have a
satellite office in the City building.
Council Member Little commented that after the transition period there would be
a cost savings for the City by going with the PDS for the zoning and code
enforcement services. Mr. Moriconi confirmed, that based on the numbers
provided by Mr. Gordon, the City should realize an annual savings of around
$40,000.
Council Member Franzen commented that in years past the City had contracted
with PDS but eventually left and hired a full time employee. She asked Mr.
Gordon how contracting with the PDS will be different this time. Mr. Gordon
invited Council Member Franzen to get references from the mayors of the cities
they contract with as well as the County Judge Executive who can advise her how
the services have worked for them.
Council Member Reinersman asked Mr. Gordon to explain their permit and
complaint tracking software program to the Council. Mr. Gordon advised the PDS
software program is accessible 24/7 making it very efficient and convenient for
the citizens and staff. He stated complaints are received immediately into the
system, and with a user name and password that can be provided to the Council
Members and City staff, it can be accessed any time, day or night. The program
also keeps a history of permits issued.
Council Member Little confirmed that the contract can be terminated with a
sixty day notice if the City decides they want to discontinue the service. Mr.
Gordon stated that outstanding business could be wrapped up sooner than sixty
days if possible.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way – Commented that PDS receives approximately $450,000
in taxes from the Independence citizens and questioned the cost savings for the
citizens. She asked how the zoning violation complaints would be handled. Mr.
Moriconi stated they would be handled on a complaint basis only. Mr. Gordon
responded that PDS receives tax dollars from all the cities they serve. He also
commented that PDS would handle the complaints proactively or complaint basis
only – based on the directive from the City. He stated they would only be
proactive if requested by the City.
Mr. Moriconi advised that part of entering into this agreement with PDS would
include the need to disband the City’s Board of Adjustment and the Code
Enforcement Board. Mr. Gordon said that disbanding these City boards and
becoming a member of the countywide Board the City would get a broader
perspective regarding decisions rendered by the Board. Council Member Little
asked if the City could opt to keep these Boards in-house. Mr. Gordon said that
not all the cities are part of the joint Board so Independence would have the
option to keep their own Boards. He stated the City would have an appointee on
both countywide boards.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Moriconi read Resolution No. 2014-R-10.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Little to approve Resolution No. 2014-R-10 to enter into an Interlocal
agreement with PDS for code enforcement administration as well as an agreement
for their levels of service. Roll was called and answered with three ayes from
Council Members Reinersman, Little and Brinker and three no votes cast by
Council Members Franzen, Aseere and Bushong. Mayor Yeager broke the tie vote
with an aye. Motion carried 4-3.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting PDS Zoning Permit Fee Schedule – 1st Reading
Mr. Moriconi presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would modify
Chapter 155 of the official code of ordinances adopting a new set of zoning
administrative fees to coincide with PDS and making such fees uniform. Mr.
Moriconi gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Disbanding the City Board of Adjustment – 1st Reading
Mr. Moriconi presented to Council a proposed Ordinance that would modify
Chapter 35 of the official code of ordinances to delete Board of Adjustment
provisions in its entirety as the Board of Adjustments is being provided by an
Interlocal agreement with the Planning and Development Services (PDS) of Kenton
County. Mr. Moriconi gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Disbanding the City Code Enforcement Board – 1st Reading
Mr. Moriconi presented to Council a proposed Ordinance that would modify
Chapter 39 of the official code of ordinances to delete Code Enforcement
provisions in its entirety as the Code Enforcement Board is being provided by
an Interlocal agreement with the Planning and Development Services (PDS) of
Kenton County. Mr. Moriconi gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2014-R-11 – Approving an Interlocal Agreement to Join the City/
County Code Enforcement Board
Mr. Moriconi presented to Council Resolution No. 2014-R-11 that would approve
the Interlocal agreement joining the joint City-County Code Enforcement Board
and authorizing the execution thereof.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Little stated he didn’t realize the
City could opt to keep our own Code Enforcement Board. Council Member
Reinersman suggested this could be decided at the next meeting to give everyone
a chance to give this further consideration.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to table action on Resolution No. 2014-R-11. Motion carried with all
ayes.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving an Annexation by Request of Revere’s Crossing
LLC for 24.50 Acres Lying Adjacent to the Existing Revere’s Crossing
Subdivision on the North Side of Fowler Creek Road – 1st Reading
A proposed ordinance was introduced that would annex 24.5 acres of land
adjacent to the existing Revere’s Crossing Subdivision on the north side of
Fowler Creek by consent of the land owner, Revere’s Crossing LLC. Mr. Moriconi
gave the proposed annexation ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving an Annexation by Nicholson Properties LLC for
34.544 Acres of Land Lying on the Northeast Corner of the Intersection of KY17
& KY16 – 1st Reading
A proposed ordinance was introduced that would annex 34.544 acres of land on
the north east corner of the intersection of KY17 and KY16 by consent of the
land owner, Nicholson Properties LLC. (This property is part of Ordinance No.
2013-O-08 that declared the City’s intent to annex multiple parcels in this
area of KY17. The property owners in the annexation area proposed to be annexed
has filed opposition with the City thereby causing the issue to be placed on
the November 4, 2014 general election ballot in accordance with State law.
Depending on the outcome of the election, this annexation will be discussed at
the City’s next meeting of Council.) Mr. Moriconi gave this proposed ordinance
a first reading.
Attorney’s Report – John J. Osterhage
Mr. Osterhage did not have anything to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Award Bid for Banking Services - Mr. Moriconi reported bids for the City’s
banking services was advertised and five proposals were received. The five
banks submitting bids included Heritage Bank, Bank of Kentucky, US Bank, Fifth
Third Bank and Republic Bank. He stated that the City’s Finance Director, Terri
Hudson has analyzed the fee schedule and services being proposed by each bank
and submitted in the Council packet for consideration. Mr. Moriconi state that
while all the banks are reputable local banks, Heritage Bank is being
recommended to service the City’s banking needs because of the net earnings,
account services needed by the City, fees, etc. He stated that Mrs. Hudson did
a good job reviewing the bids and feels comfortable that Heritage Bank will be
able to provide all the services the City needs while providing a net earnings
better than the rest of the proposals. Mr. Moriconi stated the effective date
to change from Park National Bank to Heritage Bank would be January 1, 2015.
A motion was made by Council Member Aseere and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to award the City’s banking services to Heritage Bank effective January
1, 2015. Roll was called and answered with five ayes with Council Member
Reinersman abstaining from casting a vote, citing a possible conflict since he
has a professional relationship with the bank. Motion carried.
Auction Proceeds – Mr. Moriconi reported the City’s surplus property items
placed in the Kenton County auction in September netted approximately $23,000
in revenue which is more than was budgeted for auction revenue for this fiscal
year.
Parks – Mr. Moriconi reported that new rubber mulch has been installed in the
playground area of Memorial Park. He said it looks great and the City received
a partial grant of $3,000 to offset the cost.
Mayor’s Report – Donna G. Yeager
Mayor Yeager announced that Halloween trick-or-treating hours would be from 6-
8 p.m. on Friday, October 31, 2014.
Privileges of the Floor
Jay Huber – State President of the Kentucky Motorcycle Association – addressed
Council about promoting a drive-in bike night at the new Throttle Stop Bar and
Grill on Taylor Mill Road similar to the bike night at the Quaker Steak and
Lube in Florence. He said these weekly bike events draw a lot of business to
the restaurants. He stated they want to have outdoor music at the Throttle Stop
but has been informed of the City’s Zoning Administrator that zoning
regulations prohibit sound amplifying equipment. He stated this was news to him
as he knows of other businesses and events in the City that have had outdoor
music. Mr. Huber said he would like to work with the City to get these
regulations changed.
Council Members Aseere and Franzen expressed concerns that the Throttle Stop
(which was originally built as a public library) was too close to residential
properties to permit outdoor music. Council Member Franzen stated the outdoor
music that is permitted in the Towne Center is only one weekend per year and is
in conjunction with the City’s annual July 4th Celebration. She stated the
Throttle Stop location is surrounded by homes. Mr. Huber reiterated that they
would only have outdoor music once a week during the summer months and would
work with the City to keep the sound decibels within reason, etc.
Mr. Moriconi looked to the City Attorney for counsel on the procedure to change
the current regulations. Mr. Osterhage believed the correct procedure would be
a zoning text amendment and suggested the City might want to get citizen input.
Mr. Moriconi stated the Council could request a text amendment to change the
regulations regarding outdoor music which would be submitted to PDS for review
and then a public hearing and a recommendation would be made by the Kenton
County Planning Commission for final review and consideration by the Council.
Mr. Huber stated he would like to start the process now so this could be
resolved by Spring 2015. Mr. Moriconi advised any change to the NSC zone would
affect all NSC zones in the city. Mr. Osterhage advised he could draft a
Resolution for Council to consider at the next meeting and decide if they want
to proceed with a text amendment application. There was a brief discussion on
the public hearing procedure and if the Planning Commission recommended
approval for the text amendment but the City disapproved the recommendation and
whether or not the City would then be required to hold its own public hearing.
Rita Hauke – 5346 Oakview Court – questioned the difference between the loud
noise of outdoor music and noise from fireworks that are set off at all hours
of the night, not to mention the debris from those fireworks that land in her
yard. Mr. Osterhage commented that many laws are difficult to enforce and not
all laws get enforced as aggressively as we would like.
Sandra Brewster – 6674 Frontier Drive – stated she didn’t see a problem with
permitting outdoor music and thinks allowing businesses to hold special events
is a good way for those businesses to prosper. She commented that the outdoor
concerts at the St. Cecilia Festival each year is very loud and she can still
hear the music even with her windows closed.
Cancellation of November 3, 2014 Regular Meeting
Mayor Yeager announced she would like to cancel the regular meeting of November
3rd as it is the night before the general election and thought the candidates
for office may want to do some last minute campaigning that night. Mr. Moriconi
suggested holding a special meeting the following Monday on November 10, 2014.
No objections were voice from the Council Members, so the November 3, 2014
meeting will be cancelled.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Aseere to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:58 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
November 10, 2014
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, November 10, 2014 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Donna G. Yeager presiding. Mayor Yeager called the meeting to order and
introduced members of the American Legion Moon Brothers Post 275 who led with
the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong.
It was announced that the Moon Brothers would be having an Inaugural
Independence Ball at the Senior Center on Saturday, November 15, 2014 at 6:00
p.m. Tickets for his event are $25 per person and will include dinner, dancing
and an award ceremony that will honor some local citizens who have provided
significant support to local veterans during the past year. Roll was called and
the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Carol Franzen, Mike Little and Chris Reinersman. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
City Administrator Chris Moriconi announced this Special meeting of Council was
being held to discuss and take action on the following business items:
   ·   Approval of the October 6, 2014 Meeting Minutes
   ·   Presentation by Ken Holiday, Huff Realty – Discussion Regarding
Development on Turkeyfoot Road
   ·   Ordinance No. 2014-O-11 – Adopting PDS Zoning Permit Fee Schedule – 2nd
Reading
   ·   Ordinance No. 2014-O-12 – Disbanding the City Board of Adjustment – 2nd
Reading
   ·   Resolution No. 2014-R-11 – Approving an Interlocal Agreement to Join the
City/County Code Enforcement Board
   ·   Ordinance No. 2014-O-13 – Disbanding the City Code Enforcement Board –
2nd Reading
   ·   Ordinance No. 2014-O-14 – Approving an Annexation by Request of Revere’s
Crossing LLC for 24.50 Acres Lying Adjacent to the Existing Revere’s Crossing
Subdivision on the North Side of Fowler Creek Road – 2nd Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Approving an Annexation of Approximately 46.225
Acres Lying on the Easterly Side of Relocated KY SR17, South of Maple Tree lane
and North of Taylor Mill Road (SR16) at its Intersection with Said Relocated
Hwy SR17 – 1st Reading
   ·   Proposed Ordinance – Regulating the Containment of Fowl and Other
Similar Animals Within the City Limits – 1st Reading
   ·   Resolution No. 2014-R-12 – Opposing the Kentucky State Auditor
Recommendation of Revising the Governance Structure of the Kenton County
Airport Board
   ·   Executive Session (only if necessary)
Mr. Moriconi advised that only the items listed on this agenda would be
discussed at this meeting.
Approval of the October 6, 2014 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Yeager called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular meeting
held on Monday, October 6, 2014. Council Member Reinersman so moved, with
second by Council Member Bushong. No amendments to the minutes were noted and
roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Presentation by Ken Holiday, Huff Realty – Discussion Regarding Development on
Turkeyfoot Road
Mr. Holiday advised Council he is a commercial realtor with the Huff Group and
is working with the current owner - Lakeside Christian Church - to market
approximately 35 acres of land on Turkeyfoot Road near the Industrial Road
intersection which the Church purchased seven years ago. He stated the church
purchased the land with the intent to build a new church as they are landlocked
at their current location on Buttermilk Pike in Lakeside Park. He stated that
several years ago the land was owned by a development company that came before
Council with a request for a rezoning of the land along with a development plan
that included Remke’s grocery moving across the street into a new building
along with other out lots. In 2008 Remke’s backed out of the new development
and the church purchased the land in 2009 with the intent to build a mega
church. Since that time they have decided to build smaller satellite churches
and are now in the process of selling this land.
Mr. Holiday stated there is interest from Thomas More College to build student
housing on a section of this development tract and the church is asking the
City to consider a rezoning that would permit this type of land use. Mr.
Holiday went on to discuss the condemned Heritage Park Apartment complex that
sits adjacent to the church land and which has recently been purchased by DMG
Properties who renovated and renamed the complex Country Club Estates. He
stated he would like to expand on the R-3 zone of the Country Club Estates as
the current zone of the church property is NC (Neighborhood Commercial) and
Thomas More College student housing development would require the R-3 zone. Mr.
Holiday distributed an “Independence Gateway” booklet that provided various
renderings and maps of the development area.
There was a brief discussion with Council regarding the Thomas More student
housing as well as plans for the remaining out lots. Mr. Holiday advised the
student housing would be three-floor apartment buildings totaling 108 units as
well as a student housing center building which would encompass approximately
eleven (11) acres of the development site. When asked about security for the
student campus, he stated the college would be providing campus security at the
student housing site. He also stated that Thomas More College would manage the
student housing but not own the land as it would fall under a master lease.
Mr. Holiday advised the remaining out lots (approximately 24 acres) would
remain a NC zone as a strip center is planned for the parcels along Turkeyfoot
Road. He stated he is currently marketing the out lots but does not have firm
commitments yet.
Mr. Moriconi advised Mr. Holiday that his next step would be to apply for a map
amendment with the Planning and Development Services of Kenton County.
Planning & Development Services – Dennis Gordon & Martin Scribner
Mr. Moriconi introduced Dennis Gordon and Martin Scribner from the Planning &
Development Services of Kenton County (PDS). He stated they would discuss and
answer any questions regarding the next few items on the agenda which include
the dissolution of the City’s Board of Adjustment and Code Enforcement Board
and then participating in the joint city/county code enforcement board.
Mr. Gordon first introduced Dennis Uchtman, Zoning Official who will be
assigned to Independence as its Code Enforcement official.
Council Member Reinersman asked about the continuing education requirements for
planning and zoning officials. Mr. Gordon stated that the required continuing
education for planning and zoning officials, which would include Board of
Adjustment members is 8 hours every two years. He stated the City would get an
appointee to the regional Board if the City Board of Adjustment is disbanded.
Council Member Reinersman expressed concerns that our current Board members are
not current with their continuing education hours as required by State law.
Council Member Brinker commented that members of a regional board may be more
objective in their rulings. Council Member Franzen stated that she agreed to a
point, but was more concerned that the members of a regional board would not be
familiar with our City. Mr. Gordon stated that each city feels they are unique
and Independence is obviously geographically larger than other cities in Kenton
County but a regional board will provide a more objective view.
Council Member Little asked if the City could withdraw from the joint board and
still remain with the One Stop Shop. Mr. Gordon replied yes. He explained the
differences in the Board of Adjustment and the Code Enforcement Board and
advised that if they were not happy with the regional board, the City could
drop out and recreate its own boards.
Council Member Franzen asked who would attend the Board of Adjustment meetings
for the City. Mr. Gordon advised a PDS staff member would be appointed to
handle a City hearing. Mr. Gordon stated the City would have a financial impact
if it was decided to keep its own boards, possibly doubling the cost. He went
on to give further explanation on the process, and staff involvement, for a
Board of Adjustment hearing.
Council Member Reinersman agreed that by disbanding the boards the City would
be giving up a certain amount of control but expressed concern regarding the
needed continuing education of the board members. Mr. Gordon stated that twice
a year PDS sends notice to the City that provides the hours of continuing
education that each board member has logged, as well as notice of training
opportunities. He stated they cannot compel training, but do offer it and that
the appointing authority (City) can enforce training requirements for their
board members. Council Member Aseere asked, of the sixteen entities that
participate in the One Stop Shop, how many have their own boards. Mr. Gordon
replied that about half of the cities have their own boards. Further discussion
centered on the costs to keep the city boards versus joining the regional board
and the impact it would have on the City. Council Member Franzen inquired about
the cost involved with keeping the current boards. Mr. Gordon advised he would
compile the cost information and Council could delay action on the Boards issue
until the next meeting. Council Member Reinersman stated he would like to have
the continuing education report on the City’s current Board of Adjustment
members also. Mr. Gordon stated he would get all the information to Council
before the December meeting. He advised Council to take final action (second
reading of the ordinance) now on adopting the zoning fee schedule as Mr.
Uchtman has already assumed the position as zoning official for the City and
the new fees need to be in effect as soon as possible.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-11 – Adopting PDS Zoning Permit Fee Schedule – 2nd Reading
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Little to adopt Ordinance 2014-O-11. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-12 – Disbanding the City Board of Adjustment – 2nd Reading
Ordinance No. 2014-O-13 – Disbanding the City Code Enforcement Board – 2nd
Reading
Resolution No. 2014-R-11 – Approving an Interlocal Agreement to Join the City/
County Code Enforcement Board
A motion was made by Council Member Aseere and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to postpone action on Ordinance No. 2014-O-12, Ordinance No. 2014-O-13
and Resolution No. 2014-R-11. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-14 – Approving an Annexation by Request of Revere’s
Crossing LLC for 24.50 Acres Lying Adjacent to the Existing Revere’s Crossing
Subdivision on the North Side of Fowler Creek Road – 2nd Reading
Mayor Yeager presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2014-O-14 that would
approve the annexation, by request of Revere’s Crossing LLC, of a 24.5 acre
tract of land adjacent to the existing Revere’s Crossing Subdivision on the
north side of Fowler Creek. The city attorney gave Ordinance No. 2014-O-14 a
second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to approve Ordinance No. 2014-O-14. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving an Annexation of Approximately 46.225 Acres
Lying on the Easterly Side of Relocated KY SR17, South of Maple Tree lane and
North of Taylor Mill Road (SR16) at its Intersection with Said Relocated Hwy
SR17 – 1st Reading
City Attorney Jack Osterhage provided a first reading of a proposed ordinance
that would annex approximately 46.225 acres lying on the easterly side of
relocated KY SR17, just south of Maple Tree lane and north of Taylor Mill Road
at the intersection with the said KY SR17. He reminded the Council they
declared its intent to annex this land in 2013 with the adoption of Ordinance
No. 2013-O-08 and since the majority of the property owners opposed the
annexation it was placed on the November 2014 general election ballot.
Therefore, this annexation was impacted by the recent election (last week) when
no votes were cast in opposition to the proposed annexation.
A brief discussion ensued relating to the parcels included in the proposed
annexation when Council Member Bushong asked for clarification. Council Member
Reinersman stated the First Baptist Church and Regency Manor were deleted from
the annexation proposal except for a 30 foot strip of frontage along KY17 for
each parcel which was needed to be contiguous with the other parcels to be
annexed.
A second reading of this final annexation ordinance will be presented at the
December meeting.
Proposed Ordinance – Regulating the Containment of Fowl and Other Similar
Animals within the City Limits
Mayor Yeager presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
modify Chapter 91 of the code of ordinances to address the harboring,
maintaining and regulating the containment of fowl and other similar animals
within the City limits. Mr. Osterhage gave the ordinance a first reading.
A lengthy discussion ensued with concerns from Council and residents regarding
acreage restrictions, limiting the number of chickens per single family
dwelling, deed restrictions, the placement of coops within the property lines,
buffer requirements, concerns that coops draw predators, and requiring a permit
first be obtained in order to keep these types of animals.
Mr. Moriconi stated he researched this subject with other cities and found that
most cities do not have an outright ban on harboring chickens or require a
certain amount of land, but do limit the number of chickens one is permitted to
have. Council Member Reinersman suggested that if a subdivision has deed
restrictions that prohibits chickens that it could be dealt with by the
Homeowners’ Association (if there is one) or with filing civil action. He
stated the city’s nuisance ordinance was not sufficient to handle issues with
keeping chickens.
Council Member Little stated he felt Section II of the proposed ordinance was
complicated and difficult to enforce ducks and geese from running at large. He
stated this ordinance to impose regulations may help somewhat, but doesn’t want
to leave loop holes.
Mr. Osterhage advised that the ordinance cannot be constructed in such a way
that no property owner could qualify. Council Member Reinersman stated he felt
this proposed ordinance was a conservative approach to deal with the issue. He
suggested the Council hold a public hearing on the issue to get more input from
the residents. Council Member Franzen commented that she was in favor of some
kind of regulations to deal with the complaints the City has been receiving
about chickens running at large in subdivisions.
Council Member Reinersman suggested that Council consider this first reading as
valid and then submit the permit application regulations to be attached to this
ordinance at the second reading. He also suggested advertising a public hearing
to obtain citizen comments. Mr. Osterhage suggested providing residents a
discretionary period of time to obtain a permit for those who already own
chickens.
A motion was made by Council Member Reinersman and seconded by Council Member
Little to revise the ordinance to include permit application requirements. Roll
was called and answered with five ayes and one abstain vote cast by Council
Member Aseere. Motion carried 5-1.
Resolution No. 2014-R-12 – Opposing the Kentucky State Auditor Recommendation
of Revising the Governance Structure of the Kenton County Airport Board
Mayor Yeager presented to Council for consideration Resolution No. 2014-R-12
which would assert opposition of the State Auditor’s recommendation of revising
the governance structure of the Kenton County Airport Board. Mr. Osterhage read
Resolution No. 2014-R-12.
A motion was made by Council Member Little and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Resolution No. 2014-R-12.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Member Aseere stated he felt this Resolution
was political mud throwing from the current Kenton County Judge Executive to
the future Judge Executive. He stated Kenton County has created a task force to
develop a new structure for the Airport Board. Council Member Reinersman
suggested deleting the fourth and seventh paragraphs that makes reference to
political desires. Mayor Yeager commented that the citizens of Kenton County
paid for the airport land and she doesn’t want to see it controlled by Ohio.
Council Member Little moved to revise his motion to adopt Resolution No. 2014-
R-12 as amended by striking paragraphs four and seven. A second was made by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Little to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:58 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Donna G. Yeager, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
2015 Minutes
January 5, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
5, 2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member
Bushong. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present:
Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton and Carol Franzen. Council
Member Donna Yeager was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris
Moriconi, City Attorney John Osterhage and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Approval of the December 1, 2014 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, December 1, 2014. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Aseere. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-01 – Approving Various Text Amendments to Update all
Sections of the Zoning Ordinance as Needed to Conform with the Newly Adopted
Kenton County Comprehensive Plan – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-01 that would approve various zoning text amendments to update all sections
as needed to conform with the newly adopted Kenton County Comprehensive Plan.
City Attorney Jack Osterhage read Ordinance No. 2015-O-01.
A motion was made by Council member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Deaton to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-01. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-02 – Amending Ordinance No. 2005-O-01 – Setting the Time
and Place of City Council Meetings during Week of November General Election –
2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-02 that would amend Ordinance No. 2005-O-01 to establish the alternate
meeting date for the November Council meeting as the Monday following a Tuesday
general election duly authorized by the State. City Attorney Jack Osterhage
read Ordinance No. 2015-O-02.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-02. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-03 – Amending Nuisance Ordinance Relating to Fowl – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-03 that would amend the City’s general nuisance regulations in Chapter 93 of
the Code of Ordinances to provide for the inclusion of fowl within the
definition and to further address the keeping of fowl, prohibiting the keeping
of roosters and limiting the number of fowl permitted. Mr. Osterhage read
Ordinance No. 2015-O-03.
Council Member Franzen asked for clarification of the wording in Section 3(b)
of the ordinance which requires the fowl to be kept in a secured enclosure from
“sun down to sun up.” Mayor Reinersman explained that there was concern with
nocturnal predators and there would be less risk to those type of predators if
the fowl are fully secured at night. He added the fowl can never be permitted
to roam free and at all times must be secured in the ground area during the
day.
Council Member Aseere asked how the permit process would work. Mayor Reinersman
explained that anyone that keeps fowl on their property would have to register
with the City Clerk at which time they would be provided with a copy of the
ordinance along with the permit. He stated there would be no fee charged to
obtain the permit as the goal of the permit process would be to have a record
on file of fowl owners and ensure the owners have been made aware of the
ordinance regulations.
Council Member Brinker asked who would enforce the ordinance. Mayor Reinersman
advised the enforcement officials would be Kenton County Animal Control or the
City Police Department. Mr. Moriconi stated that he and the Zoning
Administrator Dennis Uchtman would also handle complaints. Council Member
Franzen stated that Animal Control would be available to respond to complaint
calls after normal business hours and that the city’s Zoning Administrator
would handle the fowl enclosure violations.
Liz Stambaugh, 5135 Noble Court – asked if there was a grandfather clause in
the proposed ordinance, asked for clarification on some of the regulations and
commented that she felt the coop requirements were overly restrictive. Mr.
Osterhage advised there is no grandfather clause and that everyone would have
to come into compliance once the ordinance is in effect. Ms. Stambaugh pointed
out the proposed ordinance does not specify front or back yard regarding the 25
feet distance that the enclosures must be situated from the neighbor’s property
line. She also questioned the need for a building permit for the chicken coop.
Mr. Osterhage advised that this ordinance does not address building permits as
that would fall under other city ordinances such as the zoning ordinance and
would be a separate zoning issue.
Lou Dimmerman, 5139 Noble Court – expressed his displeasure with the proposed
ordinance and asked if a chicken coop would be allowed in a front yard. Council
member Franzen advised Mr. Dimmerman that the zoning ordinance would regulate
the placement of such structures. Mr. Dimmerman also was concerned that noise
from the fowl would not be witnessed by police when they arrived and therefore
the owner could not be cited if the police were not a witness to it. Mr.
Osterhage advised the complaining party would have the option to take this
complaint to circuit court.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-03. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Providing a Credit of the Occupational License Fee for new
Employees as Part of an Economic Development Project by Balluff Inc. under the
Kentucky Business Investment Program – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance to Council that would authorize
a credit of occupational license fees for a 10-year period equal to 0.625% on
the wages of new Balluff Inc. Kentucky resident employees that would be created
as part of an Economic Development Project. Mr. Osterhage read the proposed
ordinance. Council Member Bushong voiced his objection to granting this type of
tax credit, stated he felt the City should never grant abeyance and reminded
the Council Members that tax credits have been requested in the past and has
always been denied. He suggested they give strong consideration to this request
before the second reading of this proposed ordinance. Mayor Reinersman
commented that he feels economic development is critical to the City and
pointed out that other cities offer these tax credit packages. He stated he
strongly supports this tax credit to Balluff Inc., that it will be good for the
city, will help shift the tax burden from the residents and urged the Council
to strongly consider approving this proposal.
Council Member Deaton agreed that the Council should consider all proposals and
review each proposal case by case. He stated this economic development project
by Balluff is in compliance with Kentucky’s business investment program and
strictly regulated by State statute. He stated this has become a common
practice, so much so that the State has mandated procedures to do it correctly.
He stated there will be immediate net gain with the $5,000,000 improvement
project by way of commercial property taxes.
Mayor Reinersman stated this proposed ordinance would be presented for a vote
at the next meeting.
Attorney’s Report – John J. Osterhage
Mr. Osterhage did not have anything to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman recognized Dave Millward for his service representing the City
on the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky. He thanked Mr. Millward
for his many years of service on this Board.
Executive Order No. 2015-EO-02 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2015-EO-02 appointing himself as the City’s representative to the OKI Board of
Directors for the year 2015. He stated he has served on the Board for the last
couple of years and would like to retain his seat.
Executive Order No. 2015-EO-03 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2015-EO-03 appointing John Richardson to the Telecommunications Board of
Northern Kentucky for a two year term as established in the Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement and will begin on January 1, 2015 and end on December 31,
2016. He stated Mr. Richardson has a history of service to the City.
Executive Order No. 2015-EO-04 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2015-EO-04 appointing Rodney Crice to the Kenton County Governance Committee.
Executive Order No. 2015-EO-05 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2015-EO-05 appointing Catherine Wilson as the City’s representative on the
Kenton County Unified Code Enforcement Board.
He also advised Council that the City will be allowed to appoint a
representative on the City/County Board of Adjustment and he will be appointing
Jim Brewer who has served on the City Board of Adjustment for many years. He
stated that Mr. Brewer was compliant with his continuing education for the
Board, understands the purpose of the Board and is a longtime resident and
familiar with the City making him a good candidate to continue serving the City
in this capacity.
Executive Order No. 2015-EO-06 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2015-EO-06 appointing himself as the primary representative and Council member
Franzen as the alternate representative to the Planning and Development
Services Council.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Brinker
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:43 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
February 2, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
2, 2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member
Bushong.
Proclamation – Recognizing Twenhofel Cheer Team
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to the Twenhofel Cheer Team in
recognition of their successful 2014-15 season that included taking second
runner up in the Kentucky State Cheer Competition Championship.
Roll Call
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney John
Osterhage and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Proclamation – Congenital Heart Defect Awareness Week
Mayor Reinersman presented to Mrs. Leslie Sams a Proclamation recognizing
February 7-14, 2015 as Congenital Heart Defect Awareness Week. Mrs. Sams stated
that four years ago her first child was born with a heart defect and that one
in 110 children is born with a congenital heart defect which is the number one
cause of infant deaths in relation to birth defects. She stated she became
involved with Little Mended Hearts which is a national organization that
provides resources and support to families. Mrs. Sams thanked Mayor Reinersman
and Council for the Proclamation and stated it’s important that we come
together as a community and raise awareness of this condition.
Request by John Karl for a Zoning Text Amendment to permit Pawn Shops in the
NSC Zone
Mayor Reinersman introduced John Karl who is interested in opening a pawn shop
in the Cherokee Plaza. Mr. Moriconi advised Council that he has been discussing
this issue with Mr. Karl who would need pawn shops added to the zoning as a
conditional use as this type of business is not currently allowed in the NSC
(Neighborhood Shopping Center) zone. He stated that as a conditional use all
pawn shops would need to go before the Board of Adjustments to get a permit.
Mr. Karl stated a conditional use is important as it would only affect the NSC
zone if the business was able to obtain the conditional use permit from the
Board of Adjustment. He stated there is no pawn shops between Walton and
Latonia. He feels that the apartment housing in the area surrounding the
Cherokee Plaza make it a perfect location for this type of business. Council
Member Brinker asked Mr. Karl if he owns pawn shops elsewhere. He stated he did
not currently own a pawn shop but has friends who do who he could rely on to
guide him in this type of business endeavor. Mayor Reinersman advised Council
this type of business is heavy regulated by the State. Council Member Yeager
stated that pawn shops were proposed for the Beechgrove Plaza in the past and
was met with resistance by this Council. Mr. Karl commented that this shop
would be located in the same building as the laundromat and the owner of the
building supports this idea. Council Member Deaton stated he spoke with the
police chief who agreed a pawn shop in this area could be a good thing and
didn’t feel it would be a crime issue. Council Member Bushong stated that his
main concern with pawn shops, when this was proposed in the Beechgrove Plaza,
was that the shop deals in the purchase/sale of guns. Mr. Karl agreed that he
would deal in the purchase/sale of guns as it is a high volume item. Council
Member Franzen commented that she recalls the proposal for a pawn shop in the
Beechgrove Plaza was denied and the owner opened as a second hand shop.
Mr. Moriconi stated the zoning text amendment process would be that the City
would make an application with PDS for the text amendment, then PDS would make
a recommendation to the City at which time the City would make a final
decision. Council Member Bushong stated he would like to review the minutes
from the past meetings when this was discussed and decided on several years
ago. Mayor Reinersman advised Council that as a conditional use this would go
before the Board of Adjustment in order to get the permit and the Board would
impose any conditions they felt necessary to allow it. Council Member Deaton
commented that the City of Covington’s ordinance regarding pawn shops is a
little beefier with a lot of detail that Independence may want to use as a
model.
Mr. Moriconi advised a Resolution to authorize the application for this text
amendment would be presented to Council at the March meeting. He stated he
would send them the meeting minutes from the past meetings where this was
discussed before the next meeting.
Request by Francie Allison for a Zoning Text Amendment to Change the Definition
of Nursery School as it Applies to School Age Children in the Residential Zone
Francie Allison, 786 Ackerly Drive, Independence – addressed Council for zoning
approval to run a State licensed Type II in-home day care facility at her
residence. She stated she currently holds a Type I license through the State
which allows her to care for up to six children in her home. She stated she
came before the City Council in 2008 for zoning approve to run the in-home day
care as her subdivision (Glenhurst), as a Planned Unit Development (PUD), did
not permit in-home day care facilities. She stated the City granted her request
in 2008 and she has since provided child care for six children in her home. She
stated that in order to provide day care for a maximum of twelve children she
will need to obtain a Type II license from the State and get zoning approval
from the City.
Council Members asked questions about her day care accommodations in her home
and if she would hire help for the additional children. She stated her husband
is retired and will help care for the children. She also advised that she has a
fenced rear yard and the lower level of her home is dedicated space for the day
care.
Mayor Reinersman asked Andy Videkovich from the Planning Commission how the
City would handle this since it is located in a PUD. Mr. Videkovich advised
that the PUD was part of the Stage I Development Plan for the Glenhurst
Subdivision and stated that no consideration was given for in-home day care
centers at the time the Plan was approved. He stated the City adopted a
Resolution amending the Stage I Development Plan in 2008 to allow in-home day
care facilities for up to six children. He stated in order to allow more than
six children the City would need to once again amend the Development Plan. He
stated the amendment would not be site specific and would apply to the entire
development. Mr. Videkovich advised there is another in-home day care center at
705 Ackerly which did not need separate approval from the City as the 2008
Resolution was for the entire development. Since this type of use was not
identified on the original Development Plan the amendment is considered minor
and can be effected by Council by Resolution.
A brief discussion ensued. Council Members inquired about the total number of
children she would care for, expressed concern about any traffic issues with
drop off and pick up of the children, health department regulations, etc. Mrs.
Allison advised that she would care for a total of twelve children which would
include any child related to her and stated that the majority of the children
she cares for live in the neighborhood so there are not any traffic problems.
She stated the health department does not inspect her facility but does provide
helpful information pertaining to health safety for child care facilities.
Council Member Yeager raised the issue about an in-home day care on Roselawn
Avenue that was not permitted. Police Captain Lucas advised that particular in-
home day care did not meet all the State qualifications and exceeded the number
of children the State would even allow.
Mr. Videkovich advised Council that allowing an in-home day care center is a
conditional use of the R-1C zone. Making it a conditional use requires an extra
step to get approval from the Board of Adjustment but that extra step would
ensure compliance in the event these in-home businesses begin to pop up
throughout the development. Mrs. Allison closed by saying she would like to
have the option of up to twelve children for short periods throughout the day,
such as before and/or after school care. Council Member Franzen stated she was
in favor of this being a conditional use which would keep it more regulated
thereby deterring less serious operators of in-home day care centers.
Mayor Reinersman stated a Resolution allowing this as a conditional use of the
Stage II Development Plan in the Glenhurst Subdivision will be drafted and on
the March agenda for Council’s final consideration.
Approval of the January 5, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, January 5, 2015. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Aseere. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered with five ayes and one pass from Council Member Yeager.
Motion carried.
2013 Comprehensive Plan Update by Andy Videkovich, PDS Senior Planner
Andy Videkovich, Senior Planner for the Planning & Development Services of
Northern Kentucky gave a PowerPoint presentation of the 2030 Comprehensive Plan
Update. He advised this updated Comprehensive Plan can be viewed online at
direction2030.org. Council Member Deaton asked when the 2006 Land Study would
be reviewed. Mr. Videkovich stated there are no current plans to update the
Land Study and in fact would be up to the City to determine if the land uses
need to be updated.
Recess
At 8:17 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Brinker and seconded by
Council Member Franzen to take a short recess. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:22 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Brinker and seconded by
Council Member Bushong to resume the regular meeting. Motion carried with all
ayes.
Resolution No. 2015-R-01 – Authorizing Mayor to Enter into an Amended
Interlocal Agreement for the Collection of Occupational License Fees and Taxes
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-01 that would
authorize the mayor to sign a revised Interlocal Agreement for the coordination
and consolidation of the collection of municipal occupational license fees and
taxes with the County and would permit the entry of the City of Ryland Heights
into the Agreement. Mr. Osterhage read Resolution No. 2015-R-01.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to approve Resolution 2015-R-01. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Change 24 Hour Parking Limit – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend the City’s traffic code pertaining to parking regulations and
would increase the time a vehicle can be parked on the public ways or streets
of the City up to 72 hours or longer. He advised that current regulations
require a vehicle to be moved every 24 hours and some concerns have been
presented that suggest this time period is a short time frame especially if a
vehicle needed to be parked over the span of a weekend. He stated it has been
suggested to amend current regulations to allow for a period of up to three
days (72 hours). Mr. Osterhage read the proposed ordinance. Mr. Moriconi
commented the 24 hours period seemed to be antiquated. Mayor Reinersman assured
everyone that police officers would not be actively looking for vehicles parked
an excessive amount of time and would only respond to citizen complaints of a
vehicle that has been setting in the same spot for an unusually long period.
Ordinance No. 2014-O-04 – Providing a Credit of the Occupational License Fee
for new Employees as Part of an Economic Development Project by Balluff Inc.
under the Kentucky Business Investment Program – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2014-
O-04 that would authorize a credit of occupational license fees for a 10-year
period equal to 0.625% on the wages of new Balluff Inc. Kentucky resident
employees that would be created as part of an Economic Development Project. Mr.
Osterhage read the proposed ordinance.
A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Reinersman advised Council that he felt this
tax credit with Balluff would be good for the City as it only provides a credit
for half with the City getting the other half. Council Member Yeager expressed
some concern that Balluff would leave the City or want more at the expiration
of the ten year credit period and that this could possibly open the door for
similar requests from other businesses. Mayor Reinersman responded that it
seems to him this company is well entrenched in the City especially since they
just built an additional building on their site. He stated this credit will
only affect the new employees hired for the new building. Mayor Reinersman
advised this is additional revenue for the City, and if they do leave after ten
years, they City still comes out ahead. He stated an important upside is that
this addition to Balluff adds new jobs. Council Member Franzen agreed. Council
Member Aseere stated he advocates tax credits as incentives to new business and
that Northern Kentucky is a sandbox for commercial development.
There being no further discussion a motion was made by Council Member Aseere
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2014-O-04. Roll
was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast by Council Member
Bushong. Motion carried 5-1.
Attorney’s Report – John J. Osterhage
Mr. Osterhage advised Council there are two public hearings on the Kenton
County Planning Commission’s agenda this Thursday that affect Independence. He
stated that the first issue is the text amendment to allow outdoor music in the
NSC zone and the other issue is the cell phone tower planned in the vicinity of
the Cherokee Plaza. Mr. Moriconi commented that the cell tower public hearing
may be tabled by the Commission.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi reported he is in the process of drafting a grant application
again for the terracing of the hillside between the Senior Center and the
Amphitheatre. He stated he has been told that the City was close to getting
this grant last year when it was applied for and has been encouraged to make
another attempt by submitting the grant application again. Council Member
Brinker commented there doesn’t seem to be any grants awarded to this area.
Mayor Reinersman agreed adding that Frankfort often forgets Northern Kentucky
in awarding grants.
Mr. Moriconi also reported he is looking into the feasibility of converting the
City’s street lights to LED lighting. He stated electricity costs are ever
increasing and in the long run the LED lights would be more cost effective He
advised he is working with Duke Energy representatives and crunching the
numbers and will keep the Council posted on his findings. Council Member
Brinker suggested looking into rebate offers. Mr. Moriconi stated he is looking
at all cost saving factors and mentioned that Owen Electric is also in the City
so the Duke Energy would only affect certain areas of the City. He stated that
Duke Energy has stated the installation of the LED lights could be paid off
over a ten year period with them.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher Reinersman
Executive Order No. 2015-EO-06 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2015-EO-06 appointing Council Member Bill Aseere to the Senior Center Board.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:41 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
March 2, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 2,
2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. The invocation was given by Council Member Bushong. Mayor
Reinersman called for a moment of silence to observe the passing of long-time
City Attorney, Jed K. Deters who lost his battle with cancer this morning.
Afterward the Mayor expressed his appreciation for Mr. Deters years of service
to the City. Mr. Moriconi stated he was proud to hire Mr. Deters in 2003 when
he was Mayor. He stated he was searching for an attorney and was guided toward
Jed by people in the community who knew him and said he would be right for the
job because he knew Independence and the people so well. Mr. Osterhage
commented that Jed was proud to serve the City, and the key to the city given
to him in December by Mayor Yeager was a great source of pride for him and his
family.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney John
Osterhage and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Approval of the February 2, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, February 2, 2015. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second by Council Member Brinker. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2015-MO-01 – Appoint Tony Lucas as Police Chief
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2015-MO-01 that would
appoint Police Captain Anthony (Tony) Lucas as Chief of Police effective August
1, 2015 upon the retirement of current Police Chief Shawn Butler. Mayor
Reinersman stated that with Shawn Butler retiring came the big decision in
finding his replacement. He thanked Council for their support during this
process and feels that he has made the right choice in selecting Tony for the
position. He stated he has complete confidence in Tony who has nearly twenty-
five years service with the City and is integrally involved in the community.
He is an outstanding member of this community having been a volunteer and Board
member of the Independence Fire District and in recent years was named Citizen
of the Year, beating out the Mayor who had also been nominated. Mayor
Reinersman went on to say that he has receive extensive law enforcement
training including the FBI National Academy which is a professional development
course for law enforcement leaders. He stated he believes the next generation
of Independence police is in good hands and trusted that Council would approve
this appointment.
City Attorney Jack Osterhage read Municipal Order No. 2015-MO-01. A motion was
made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member Bushong to
approve Municipal Order No. 2015-MO-01. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0. Captain Lucas thanked everyone for their
support. Council Member Brinker announced that the next class of the Citizens
Police Academy would begin next week and commented that Captain Lucas is a
great leader and he looked forward to working with him in his new role.
Planning & Development Services Demonstration of the “TRAK-iT” Software Program
by Martin Scribner, Director of Planning & Zoning
Mayor Reinersman introduced Martin Scribner, Director of Planning & Zoning with
the Planning & Development Services (PDS) of Northern Kentucky who would
present a demonstration of the TRAK-iT software program. Mr. Scribner stated
this software is used by PDS to track permits issued and property code
complaints and enforcement. He advised there are three levels of service and
demonstrated to Council the public and private portals of the software program
which will allow limited public view and an extended view of the program by
city officials and employees. To enter the site visit website http://
etrakit.pdskc.org to check the status of a code violation, building permit or
to log a code complaint. Mayor Reinersman thanked Mr. Scribner for the
demonstration.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-05 – Change 24 Hour On-Street Parking Limit – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-05 that would amend the City’s traffic code pertaining to parking regulations
and would increase the time a vehicle can be parked on the public ways or
streets of the City up to 72 hours or longer. Council Member Bushong asked how
the parking regulations would be enforced. Mayor Reinersman advised that police
would mark the car and then return to check the movement.
Cathy Price, 3919 Gunstock – addressed Council about the parking regulations
ordinance and stated she would like to see it enforced. She stated this is a
problem on her street and the cars will be moved when the police contact the
owner but then they move the car back after the allotted time frame and she
believes this is not the intent of the ordinance. Mayor Reinersman agreed that
people will work the system. Captain Lucas advised the revised ordinance
allowing seventy two hour will help the officers and allow residents to leave
the cars on the street for the duration of a weekend. He stated they do
community policing and will ask violators to move the cars. He stated sixty
citations have been written this year. He assured Ms. Price that the officers
are marking the vehicles and re-checking. He advised Council that Ms. Price has
be advised that she can also file a complaint at the County Clerk’s office. He
stated enforcement of this ordinance will be complaint driven. Mayor Reinersman
confirmed that the officers will not drive around the city looking to cite
vehicles that have been parked in excess of the seventy-two hours and will only
respond to complaints.
There being no further discussion, Mr. Osterhage gave Ordinance No. 2015-O-05 a
second reading. A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by
Council Member Aseere to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-05. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Discussion of Possible Zoning Text Amendment that would Allow Outdoor Dining
Areas to Provide Music and Sound Amplifying Systems as a Conditional Use in the
NSC Zones
Mayor Reinersman advised Council that the City has received the statement of
recommendation from the Kenton County Planning Commission regarding the City’s
application on a proposed text amendment to allow outdoor dining areas to
provide entertainment, music and sound amplifying systems as a conditional use
in the NSC zone. He stated they have submitted an unfavorable recommendation
which the Council can accept or the Council can override this recommendation
and move forward with the text amendment. Mayor Reinersman stated he has been
working with City Administrator Chris Moriconi on an alternative plan that
would allow outdoor music for special events and would make a zoning text
amendment unnecessary while still addressing outdoor music for special events.
He stated he feels this would resolve the issue. A citizen spoke against a
permit process for special events because he did not feel that would address
the amplified sound from televisions located in outdoor dining sections of
local restaurants like Buffalo Wild Wings or LaRosa’s. He stated those
restaurants were technically in violation of the ordinance. City Attorney
Osterhage commented that he was not sure that a television would come under the
definition of amplified sound. Mayor Reinersman explained to the citizen that
the major concern he has with allowing outdoor amplified sound in the NSC zone
is the close proximity to residential homes in the area, especially during week
nights. He feels the City will get many complaints if Council decides to move
forward with this text amendment to allow amplified sound in the NSC zone.
There being no support from Council to override the Planning Commission’s
unfavorable recommendation, Mayor Reinersman advised Council that he would
continue to resolve the outdoor amplified sound issue by working with staff in
developing a permit process that residents would need to obtain from the City
office for special events that would involve outdoor music.
Resolution No. 2015-R-02 – Authorizing a Stage II Development Plan for
Glenhurst Subdivision PUD Relating to In-Home Day Care Facilities, State
Licenses Type II, as an Acceptable Conditional Use
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-02 that would
authorize a minor Stage II development plan to the Glenhurst Subdivision
Planned Unit Development as it relates to day care facilities and would provide
that a Type II State licensed child care center may be an acceptable
conditional use. Mr. Osterhage read Resolution No. 2015-R-02.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to adopt Resolution No. 2015-R-02. A brief discussion/explanation
ensued that the next step to obtain the conditional use for a Type II day care
would be to make an application with the Board of Adjustment. Mr. Scribner
advised the applicant fee for the Board of Adjustment hearing would be $550.
Further discussion centered on whether or not a zoning text amendment would be
required.
There being no further discussion, roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2015-R-03 – Authorizing a Zoning Text Amendment Application
Relating to Pawn Shops in the NSC Zone
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-03 that would
authorize a zoning text amendment application to amend the language of
neighborhood shopping center zone to allow that a pawn shop may be considered
as a conditional use.
Council Member Franzen asked if the City would be required to hold its own
public hearing in the event that the Planning Commission returns a favorable
recommendation and the City would prefer not to proceed with the text change as
recommended. A brief discussion ensued. Mayor Reinersman explained the public
hearing process, which will be held by the Kenton County Planning Commission on
April 2, 2015.
Mr. Osterhage read Resolution No. 2015-R-03. A motion was made by Council
Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member Lucas Deaton. Roll was called and
answered with four ayes and two no votes cast by Council Members Yeager and
Bushong. Motion carried 4-2 in favor of authorizing the application of a text
amendment.
Recess
At 8:07 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by
Council Member Brinker to take a brief recess. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:15 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Aseere and seconded by Council
Member Yeager to resume the regular meeting. Motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2015-R-04 – Approving a Grant Application under the Land & Water
Conservation Fund Act
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-04 that would
authorize the application for a 50/50 grant under the Land and Water
Conservation Fund Act to develop recreational land, specifically Memorial Park,
for a proposed project estimated at $141,000. Furthermore the City agrees to
hold in reserve 50% of the project costs for the purpose of matching the grant,
if awarded.
Council Member Brinker stated the Park Board supports this grant application
and advised this would be the fourth time the City has applied for grant funds
for a project to terrace the hillside between the Memorial Park Amphitheater
and the Senior Center which would provide better access (including handicap)
for everyone attending the performances at the Amphitheater. Mr. Moriconi
commented that last year the City came in second with the grant being awarded
to another City. He stated, as required by the grant application, the City will
hold a public hearing to obtain public comment on this project and grant
application. He stated the public hearing would be held prior to the City’s
regular Council meeting on April 6, 2015.
A motion was made by Council Member Aseere and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to adopt Resolution No. 2015-R-04. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the Election Procedure to Eliminate Primary
Elections – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for their consideration a proposed
ordinance that would forgo conducting a nonpartisan primary election for the
nomination of candidates for City office regardless of the number of candidates
running for each office. Mr. Osterhage gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Attorney’s Report – John J. Osterhage
Mr. Osterhage commented that he spent a lot of time with Jed Deters in recent
months and that Jed and his family appreciate the time he worked with the City
as its City Attorney. He went on to say that Jed was very proud of the Key to
the City that Mayor Yeager presented to him in December. Mayor Reinersman
stated the City had a very close and long standing relationship with Jed and he
will be missed. Mr. Moriconi commented that he hired Jed when he first became
Mayor and knew that Jed was well-known in the City and because he knew the City
so well it was a very good fit for him as City Attorney. Council Member Yeager
commented that she also worked with Jed in his role as the attorney for the
Independence Fire District Board. Council Member Franzen thanked Mr. Osterhage
for acting as City Attorney and filling in for Jed during his illness. She
stated she is appreciative for all he has done for the City during these last
several months.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi announced the next Citizen Police Academy will begin next week
with a record breaking twenty-nine participants.
He also gave recognition to Public Works employee Dustin Hollingsworth for his
efforts in sighting a four year old little girl roaming the streets in the
vicinity of SR536 during the middle of the night while plowing snow. He stated
that Mr. Hollingsworth pulled his truck over, took the girl in and called the
police who took over the situation. Mr. Moriconi stated the little girl had
wandered quite a distance from her home.
Mayor Reinersman commented that the Public Works Department did an incredible
job during snow removal and has ranked as one of the top cities in the region
for their performance in clearing the streets.
In closing, Mr. Moriconi stated it was three years ago today when Piner was
devastated by the tornado that hit this area. He stated the community came
together to assist Piner in the aftermath of the tornado.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Kelly Miller Circus coming to Town - Mayor Reinersman announced that the Kelly
Miller Circus is coming to town on May 7th with two performances at 4:30 and 7:
30 p.m. He stated the Deters Company has permitted the big top tent to set up
at the Towne Center on the vacant lot near the Skyline Chili. He stated the
circus will include elephants, clowns and trapeze artists. Mayor Reinersman
advised if ticket sales warrant a third performance, then another show will be
added. He stated that tickets will be sold at the City Building, Angelo’s
Restaurant and Remke’s Markets located on Turkeyfoot Road and in Taylor Mill.
Price of tickets is $12 for ages 12 and over and $6 for ages 2-11 and children
under the age of two will be free.
Easter Egg Hunt – Mayor Reinersman announced the City’s annual Easter Egg Hunt
will be held at Memorial Park for ages nine and under on Saturday March 28,
2015 at noon.
Health & Fitness Fair – Mayor Reinersman announced that City will hold the
annual Health & Fitness Fair on Saturday, April 11, 2015 from 10:00 a.m. until
2:00 p.m. at the Senior Center.
New Development – Mayor Reinersman announced that a new retail development by
Toebben Companies will be constructed across from Deaton’s Nursery and LaRosa’s
at the corner of Shaw Road and SR17. He stated three buildings will be
constructed which will house an Aldi discount supermarket and Dollar Tree. He
stated an out lot is also planned for a bank building. He stated Toebben should
begin construction in June with Aldi’s opening by Thanksgiving. He stated he is
excited to bring more services and job opportunities to our citizens as well as
the occupational taxes that will be generated by more retail businesses.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:36 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
April 6, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 6,
2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance. He then asked for a moment of silence before commencing
the meeting. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna
Yeager. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney John
Osterhage and City Clerk Patricia Taney. Council Member Bushong was absent.
Presentation of Award to Officer Jamie Ruehl
Assistant Chief Tony Lucas introduced Lieutenant Mike Thatcher who nominated
Officer Jamie Ruehl for a department lifesaving award. Lieutenant Thatcher
stated Officer Jamie Ruehl was most deserving of this recognition for his
heroic efforts in pulling a child from a frozen pond in the Glenhurst
Subdivision in January. He stated Officer Ruehl maintained a calm exposure when
he responded to this call to find the child was below the water up to his neck.
He stated Officer Ruehl threw a rope out and instructed the child how to put
the rope around his waist all the while instructing other to call the child’s
mother and calling the life squad. He stated that he was very proud of Officer
Ruehl’ s quick thinking and composure and is very deserving of this exemplary
service. He presented Officer Ruehl with a recognition plaque.
Approval of the March 2, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, March 2, 2015. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Yeager. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Zoning Text Amendment Request by Ken Holliday of Huff Realty to Add Dog
Kennels, Dog Grooming and Dog Daycare facilities as a Conditional Use in the
NSC Zone
Mayor Reinersman introduced Huff Commercial realtor Ken Holliday who was
present to represent his client Allie Clegg, owner of Allie’s Walkabout, a
family owned and operated doggie day care that also provides boarding and
grooming services. Mr. Holliday advised that Allie’s Walkabout is currently a
home-based business in Villa Hills which is looking to increase and relocate to
the space formerly occupied by Kroger in the Independence Towne Center. He
stated that the Towne Center is zoned Neighborhood Shopping Center (NSC), a
zone that does not currently permit this type of use. Mr. Holliday stated the
Clegg’s are interested in the Independence area because of the City’s growth
and that statistics show that fifty percent of its residents have a dog. He
stated that Allie’s Walkabout would employ 20-30 people with round the clock
service.
Mayor Reinersman advised Council that he recently met with Mr. Holliday and the
Clegg’s and is satisfied that barking noises and odor concerns will be
addressed. Mr. Holliday stated that an aqua air central vacuum system would be
installed in the space to control odors as well as enzymatic cleaners. He
stated that all services would be contained indoors but they would offer dog
walking services to customers in their own neighborhoods. He stated they plan
on building a relationship with Pet Supply Plus which is a current tenant at
the Towne Center. In closing, Mr. Holliday requested the City approve a text
amendment application that would add dog kennels and doggie day care services
as a conditional use in the NSC zone. He stated they would even agree to the
business entrance being in the rear of the building.
A brief discussion ensued regarding signage for this type of business and
providing for entry by way of the rear of the building. Mayor Reinersman
suggested moving forward with a Resolution to approve the text amendment as the
application deadline for the Kenton County Planning Commission’s May meeting
was this Thursday Mr. Moriconi advised the Clegg’s would be responsible for the
text amendment application fee of $208. Mayor Reinersman also advised the
Clegg’s that if the final text amendment was approved by the City then the next
step would be to obtain the conditional use permit from the Kenton County Board
of Adjustment and that fee would be $550. Council Member Franzen advised the
Clegg’s that it would be a possibility that the Board of Adjustment would not
approve the permit or might put additional conditions when granting the permit.
Mayor Reinersman suggested that this type of use in the NSC zone have
additional text language that would require a rear entry to the business and
not allow signage on the main face of the building, with signage being placed
on the rear of the building. Council Member Franzen stated she was not
concerned with signage placement on the building. Council Members Yeager and
Brinker stated they did not have a problem with requiring rear entry for this
type of business.
Patrick Redden, 5301 Millcreek Circle, Independence – stated he was against a
front entrance for this type of business as he is allergic to animals. He
stated he also felt that for safety reasons the dogs should enter/exit the rear
of the building.
Mr. Holliday added that generally the landlord and tenant negotiate the
placement of the business signs. Additionally, he felt that a no “front
loading” sign would restrict front egress.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Court, Independence – stated that she felt signage on
the front of the building would be necessary for patrons to locate the
business.
Mayor Reinersman asked Andy Videkovich, Senior Planner with PDS, if the City
would be able to make changes to the text amendment recommendation from the
Planning Commission. Mr. Videkovich advised if the City made a change they
would need to determine if the change was significant and would need further
review from the Planning Commission to warrant sending it back.
Resolution No. 2015-R-07 – Authorizing a Zoning Text Amendment Relating to Dog
Kennels, Boarding and Daycare Facilities as a Conditional Use in the NSC Zone
There being no further discussion, City Attorney Osterhage prepared and read a
Resolution authorizing a text amendment application for the NSC zone to provide
that a dog kennel, dog boarding or dog daycare facility may be an acceptable
conditional use within that zone.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Deaton to adopt Resolution No. 2015-R-07. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Presentation of Vision Plan for KY 536 Environs by University of Cincinnati
Students
Mayor Reinersman introduced Andy Videkovich, Senior Planner with PDS, who has
collaborated with University of Cincinnati Planning students to develop a plan
for KY 536. Mr. Videkovich advised Council that the Vision Plan for the KY 536
Environs study examines the potential impact of the expansion of the major
east-west corridor from Boone County to the heart of Independence. He stated
the KY 536 project has been designed and is waiting on State funding to begin
construction. He stated that OKI has begun a year-long study to determine the
impact of this road expansion on the adjacent communities. Mr. Videkovich
stated the students have explored a number of planning issues and want to hear
the City’s thoughts on the project. He stated the Plan will shed light on
possibilities for future land use along the Kenton County 536 corridor. He
stated the class’s vision and report will be used by PDA and the Planning
Commission for future land use plans along this route. Three students from U.C.
presented a power point presentation of their findings from the study which
included providing historic preservation areas and improving connectivity
through history, nature and amenities.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-06– Amending the Election Procedure to Eliminate Primary
Elections – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-06 that would forgo conducting a nonpartisan primary election for the
nomination of candidates for City office regardless of the number of candidates
running for each office. City Attorney Osterhage gave the ordinance a second
reading.
Council Member Deaton spoke in opposition to adopting this ordinance and cited
several reasons he feels primary elections should not be eliminated. Those
reasons being: low voter turnout rate, as the second fastest growing city in
Northern Kentucky a primary may be needed, anyone seriously considering
candidacy for office will be thinking of this well in advance of the general
election in November, a primary election will give a newcomer a chance to see
where they stand and the opportunity to get their name out, complaints received
from citizens in summer months are high and he was concerned there is not
enough data and information at this time to change the election process by
eliminating the primaries.
Mayor Reinersman stated this legislation was introduced after he was contacted
by the County Clerk who asked if the City would be eliminating the primary
elections now that the State has changed City classifications. He stated that
while he agrees Council Member Deaton has some valid concerns he feels that
eliminating the primary elections would broaden the field of candidates and
eliminate the confusion with two elections (primary and general) in the year.
Council Member Franzen stated that Council Member Deaton raised some good
points but admitted that candidates can get election fatigue to run two
campaigns in a year and feels the residents get tired of negative campaigns and
having candidates knocking on their door.
Patrick Redden, 5301 Millcreek Circle, Independence – commented that it is
often difficult to get people to volunteer their time as most want to sit back
and complain. He feels primary elections are needed to get serious, qualified
people.
Alan Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle – commented that if it’s not broken then it
doesn’t need to be fixed. He stated he understand that there may be a savings
to eliminate the primary election. He also feels that dedicated individuals
will look well in advance to learn of the filing deadline to file for elected
office.
Council Member Aseere voiced his support of Council Member Deaton’s concerns
and agreed that the primary election should not be eliminated.
Council Member Franzen stated she would like to table voting on this ordinance
to eliminate the primary elections until she has had more time to take this
under consideration and made a motion to do so. Motion seconded by Council
Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Providing for a Credit of its Occupational License Fee for
New Employees for Balluff Inc. as Part of an Economic Development Project under
the Kentucky Business Investment Program – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would authorize
a credit of occupational license fees for wages of new Balluff Inc. Kentucky
employees that would be created as part of an Economic Development Project
under the Kentucky Business Investment Program. Mayor Reinersman reminded
Council this was originally accomplished in February of this year by way of
Ordinance No. 2015-O-04, which this proposed ordinance will amend. He stated
this new proposed ordinance has the correct tax credit of 0.5% (Ordinance No.
2015-O-04 tax credit was 0.625%). He stated that since the wrong figures were
given to the City, Balluff has agreed to pay the advertising cost of the new
ordinance. He stated the corrected rate is lower than previously stated and
adopted in Ordinance No. 2015-O-04. Mr. Osterhage read the proposed ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the Schedule of Building Permit Fees – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would amend the
schedule of fees for building permits. Mr. Osterhage gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading. Mayor Reinersman advised stated the new fee schedule
will be a slight increase over the current fees. He stated building inspection
fees should cover the entire cost of the Building department so that it is
self-sufficient. He stated the new fees are still below those fees charged by
PDS.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Nuisance Regulations Relating to Vacant Buildings
– 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance amending Chapter
93.03 of the Code of Ordinances relating to nuisances to expand the description
of a nuisance as it relates to a lot, parcel or real estate or structure. He
stated this ordinance will address vacant houses that have become a nuisance
and that the City Attorney worked with the Kenton County Attorney to draft this
ordinance addressing this growing problem. No discussion. Mr. Osterhage gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2015-R-06 – Supporting Downtown Sidewalk Rehabilitation Grant
Application
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-06 that would
support the rehabilitation of sidewalks in the downtown, historic courthouse
area of Independence along the Madison Pike corridor, and authorize application
of a grant in conjunction with OKI via the Federal Transportation Alternative
Funds by matching a minimum of 20% of monies as required by the terms of the
grant. Mr. Osterhage read Resolution No. 2015-R-06. Mayor Reinersman stated
this would basically complete the sidewalk construction and rehabilitation
along Madison Pike.
City Administrator Chris Moriconi advised this grant is federally funded and
may take longer to learn if the City will be awarded the grant. He stated the
application deadline is April 25, 2015. He stated the grant application
requires specific criteria with a point system. He stated this is the last
section of sidewalk construction along Madison that will reconstructed on both
sides of the street from St. Cecilia Church to Big Bone Turnpike and from the
entrance to the Hartland Subdivision to the Courthouse.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to adopt Resolution No. 2015-R-06. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – John J. Osterhage
Mr. Osterhage reported that the Kenton County Board of Adjustment will hold a
hearing on April 15, 2015 for Francie Allison’s request for a conditional use
permit for Type II In-home Day Care Center at her home, 786 Ackerly Drive.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi reported that the creek bed is eroding along Crowe Road. He stated
they have found a way to move the road over about 15-20 feet and he has applied
for $50,000 MRA emergency funds to cover the cost of the repairs.
Mr. Moriconi reminded everyone that the Kelly Miller Circus is next month and
that tickets can be purchased at the City Building, Remke’s stores or Angelo’s
Restaurant. He stated that ticket sales are good so far, but expect them to
pick up considerably 7-10 days prior to the circus on May 7th.
Mr. Moriconi announced the Health and Fitness Fair will be held at the Senior
Center on Saturday, May 11, 2015.
In closing, Mr. Moriconi reported the condition of the Cody Road Bridge is
worsening and he is looking into some long term solutions and will report back
to Council.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman reported the annual Easter Egg Hunt was a success, garnering a
good crowd and acknowledged the hard work of the Park Board members and the
Recreation Director Nita Brake.
Mayor Reinersman also reported that he volunteered last month to deliver meals
to Independence residents for the Senior Services of Northern Kentucky program
called “March for Meals.” He expressed concern that since he only made one stop
to a resident, that Independence may be underserved by this great program. He
stated this is a great service to our residents who are home bound and need a
hot meal each day. He urged everyone to contact the Senior Services if they
know of anyone that could benefit from this service.
Mayor Reinersman also reported that he recently traveled to Quantico, Virginia
to attend the graduation of Lieutenant Scott Paul from the FBI Academy’s
professional development course for law enforcement leaders. He stated this is
a 10-week program which all of the Police Department’s command staff have
graduated.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:53 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
May 4, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 4,
2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong gave the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, James Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney John Osterhage and
City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Approval of the April 6, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, April 6, 2015. Council Member Yeager so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered with five ayes and one abstain from Council Member
Bushong. Motion carried.
Proclamation – Building Safety Month
Mayor Reinersman read a Proclamation declaring May 2015 as Building Safety
Month supporting all government efforts to address and implement quality
building codes to protect Americans in the buildings where we live, learn,
work, worship and play.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-06 – Amending the Election Procedure to Eliminate Primary
Elections – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-06 that would forgo conducting a nonpartisan primary election for the
nomination of candidates for City office regardless of the number of candidates
running for each office. City Attorney Jack Osterhage gave the ordinance a
second reading.
Mayor Reinersman advised Council that the County Clerk contacted him earlier
this year to inquire if the City would continue holding primary elections in
light of the recent State law changing the classification of cities. He stated
that as a new “home-rule” class of city, Council can opt for or against holding
a primary election which was previously mandated when Independence was a third
class city. He stated that Erlanger and Covington are two cities that have
historically held primary elections like Independence. Mayor Reinersman stated
he supports the elimination of primary elections for a number of reasons. He
stated that in order for a primary election to occur for Council there must be
double the number of seats plus one (for a minimum of 13) to file for office.
He stated the last few elections that did not occur, so a primary election was
not held, which makes him wonder if it is worth keeping in place if it will
potentially hurt the field of candidates.
Council Member Deaton stated he didn’t feel eliminating primary elections was
right for Independence regardless of what other cities do and that everyone
should have more opportunities to exercise their right to vote each year. He
stated he was not convinced that eliminating the primary election would improve
the field of candidates and doesn’t feel the filing deadline would have an
effect on the number of candidates that would file. He stated we shouldn’t
eliminate a process that isn’t broke.
Council Member Aseere stated he agreed with Council Member Deaton’s comments
and added that if the City would decide in the future to reinstate primary
elections that it would take five years for the adjustment. Additionally, he
stated that he does not believe any savings will be realized by the City by
eliminating the primary elections.
Council Member Franzen commented that anyone that is thinking well in advance
of running for office can still file in January for the November election and
could do so anytime until the deadline in August. She stated she could vote
either way for this, but felt the primary elections historically have a low
voter turnout. She also stated that primary elections tend to be an advantage
for incumbents because if the citizens are happy with the people currently in
office then they won’t make a change. Council Member Franzen expressed concern
over the lack of candidates the last several years. She stated the democratic
process is about having a good slate of candidates on the ballot.
Council Member Brinker commented that eliminating the primary election will not
eliminate the number of candidates, just eliminate the January filing deadline.
He stated there is still the potential for an endless number of candidates.
Council Member Bushong stated he has ran seven times and feels there is no
advantage on whether or not there is a primary election. He also felt the
County Clerk’s office would realize a cost savings if the City didn’t hold a
primary election.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered with ayes
from Council Members Franzen, Bushong and Brinker and nays from Council Members
Deaton, Yeager and Aseere. Mayor Reinersman broke the tie vote by casting an
aye. Motion carried 4-3 in favor of eliminating the primary elections
(Ordinance No. 2015-O-06).
Ordinance No. 2015-O-07– Providing for a Credit of its Occupational License Fee
for New Employees for Balluff Inc. as Part of an Economic Development Project
under the Kentucky Business Investment Program – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance that would authorize
a credit of occupational license fees for wages of new Balluff Inc. Kentucky
employees that would be created as part of an Economic Development Project
under the Kentucky Business Investment Program. Mayor Reinersman reminded
Council this was originally accomplished in February of this year by way of
Ordinance No. 2015-O-04, which this proposed ordinance will amend. He stated
this new proposed ordinance has the correct tax credit of 0.5% (Ordinance No.
2015-O-04 tax credit was 0.625%). He stated that since the wrong figures were
given to the City, Balluff has agreed to pay the advertising cost of this new
ordinance. He stated the corrected rate is lower than previously stated and
adopted in Ordinance No. 2015-O-04. Mr. Osterhage gave Ordinance No. 2015-O-07
a second reading.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council member Franzen and
seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered with five ayes
and one no vote cast by Council member Bushong. Motion carried 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-08 – Amending the Schedule of Building Permit Fees – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-08 that would amend the schedule of fees for building permits. Mr. Osterhage
gave the proposed ordinance a second reading.
Council Member Bushong asked if these new fees were lower than the PDS and if
the City decides to contract with PDS for building inspection services, on a
permanent basis, if the City would then adopt the PDS rates. Mr. Moriconi
stated the city’s new building fee rates are still lower than those charged by
PDS. Mayor Reinersman advised that while PDS is providing temporary building
inspection services they will use the city’s new schedule of fees, but if the
city went with PDS permanently, then the PDS fees would apply. He advised
Council that he still hopes to find a replacement for Kevin Barbian (Building
Inspector) who recently resigned from the City to take another job.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Aseere to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-08. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-09 – Amending Nuisance Regulations Relating to Vacant
Buildings – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-09 amending Chapter 93.03 of the Code of Ordinances relating to nuisances to
expand the description of a nuisance as it relates to a lot, parcel or real
estate or structure. He stated this ordinance will address vacant houses that
have become a nuisance and that the City Attorney worked with the Kenton County
Attorney to draft this ordinance addressing this growing problem. Mr. Osterhage
gave a second reading to Ordinance No. 2015-O-09.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Brinker to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-09. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-10 – Amending the Code of Ordinances Title IX, General
Regulations, Chapter 91, Section 91.33 and Section 91.34 Pertaining to the
Keeping and Maintaining of Animals, Vicious Dogs and Exotic and Wild Animals by
Providing Exceptions for Keeping and Controlling Same and Declaring an
Emergency – 1st Reading /and Declaration of Emergency
Mayor Reinersman advised Council that current City regulations prohibit the
keeping of wild and exotic animals. He stated the original intent of Chapter
91, Sections 33 and 34, of the Code of Ordinances was to address vicious dogs.
He stated that in order to further address this prohibition of wild and exotic
animals it would be necessary to provide for specific exceptions such as
circuses and Kenton County’s Wild Wednesdays program in Mills Park. He went on
to say that Ordinance No. 2015-O-10 is being presented for consideration to
make amendments to Chapter 91. Mayor Reinersman stated that because of the
City’s sponsorship of the Kelly Miller Circus on May 7th this ordinance is
being presented with a declaration that an emergency exists because the city
could incur financial losses if the circus cannot be held as scheduled and
there is insufficient time to schedule a special meeting for a second reading
of the ordinance. He stated the City’s legal counsel has recommended this
ordinance amendment because legal action against the City has been threatened.
He stated he would open the floor for citizen comments, but would not debate
the issue due to the threatened litigation. City Attorney Jack Osterhage read
Ordinance No. 2015-O-10.
Connie Ehlen, 10629 Williamswood Drive, Independence – addressed Council about
her opposition regarding the City’s sponsorship of the Kelly Miller Circus, the
treatment of the circus animals and she questioned the legality of changing the
City’s regulations prior to the circus event. She commented this is a
controversial issue and doesn’t feel safe to have the circus with its wild
animals in the city.
There being no further comments, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-10. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Amended 2014/2015 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
amend the 2014-2015 budget. There being no questions by Council, Mr. Osterhage
gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2015/2016 Fiscal Year Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would adopt a budget for the 2015/2016 fiscal year. In his budget address
Mayor Reinersman stated he feels he addressed the needs of the City while
minimizing the impact on the citizens. He stated a particular challenge was the
declining Municipal Road Aid revenue which has resulted from the lower fuel
prices on the State gasoline tax. He stated the city’s Reserve Account will
make up the difference so that the road repairs will be the same as last year.
He stated the proposed budget will add one new police officer and maintain the
police fleet replacement schedule. He stated the Public Works Department will
also get a new truck to replace one of the older trucks. Mayor Reinersman
stated that he is optimistic for the future as he will be taking steps in
economic development and believes the City has turned the corner and is on the
verge of good things happening. He thanked the City staff for their efforts in
working with him to create a good working budget. Mr. Osterhage gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Employee Pay and Classification Plan – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented for a first reading a proposed ordinance that will
adopt an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2015/2016 fiscal year.
Mr. Osterhage read the proposed ordinance.
Resolution No. 2015-R-08 – Authorizing an Interlocal Agreement with PDS for
Building Inspection Services
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-08 that would
approve an amendment to the Interlocal agreement for unified “One Stop Shop”
codes administration to include temporary building permit services to be
provided by the Planning & Development Services of Northern Kentucky. (PDS). He
stated that the City’s long time Building Inspector Kevin Barbian has resigned
to take a position with the City of Fort Thomas as he would have more
opportunity for career growth. Mayor Reinersman stated he was saddened by
Kevin’s departure as he was a great person for the job and had been with the
City for sixteen years. Mayor Reinersman stated this Resolution authorize
contracting for services during the interim until a replacement for Kevin can
be hired. He stated that ultimately he would like to keep the building
inspection services in-house as he feels the City can provide better services
to the residents. He commented that he has spoken with PDS and the County
Attorney who is agreeable to amending the current agreement with the City to
include building services on a temporary basis. Mr. Osterhage read Resolution
No. 2015-R-08.
A motion was made by Council Member Aseere and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to adopt Resolution No. 2015-R-08. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – John J. Osterhage
Mr. Osterhage reported that Kenton County Planning Commission will hold the
public hearing for the City’s proposed text amendment application to allow dog
kennels, dog grooming and dog day care facilities as a conditional use in the
NSC zone on Thursday, May 7th at 6:15 p.m.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi reported that over 900 tickets have been sold for the Kelly Miller
Circus to be held on Thursday May 7th. He stated that tickets can be purchased
through Wednesday at the City Building, Remke’s or Angelo’s Restaurant. Or they
can be purchased on Thursday at the circus.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman announced that he will participate in the American Cancer
Society’s Relay for Life Walk-a-Thon event that will be held on Saturday, May
30, 2015 at Thomas More College. He stated his “Independence Team Jed” will
honor long time City Attorney Jed Deters who lost his battle with cancer in
March. He stated he is asking for pledges and hopes to raise $2,000 for the
American Cancer Society and challenged other city leaders to join him. He
stated that if he meets his goal that he, along with the City Administrator and
Assistant Police Chief Lucas will dress like a lady and do the “dude looks like
a lady” walk around the track. He stated that donations can be made at
relayforlife.com.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:02 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
June 1, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 1,
2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong gave the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, James Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi and City Clerk Patricia Taney.
Executive Order 2015-O-10 – Appointment of Jack Gatlin as City Attorney
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Executive Order 2015-O-10 that would
ratify and approve a contract with attorney Jack Gatlin and Freund Freeze and
Arnold law firm to provide legal counsel to the City of Independence with Jack
Gatlin acting as City Attorney. He thanked the interim City Attorney Jack
Osterhage who graciously provided the City with legal counsel over the last
several months. Mayor Reinersman advised Council that the search for a new City
Attorney was an ardent process with a proper vetting of several law firms. He
stated that he felt the City needs a larger law firm with rock solid knowledge
of municipal law that could cover all the legal needs of a city the size of
Independence and proposed contracting with Jack Gatlin of Freund Freeze and
Arnold. Mayor Reinersman read Executive Order 2015-O-10.
A motion was made by Council member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to approve Executive Order 2015-O-10 ratifying the appointment of Jack
Gatlin as the new City Attorney. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor Reinersman welcomed Mr. Gatlin and invited him to take a seat at the
Council bench. Mr. Gatlin thanked Mayor Reinersman and the City Council for the
appointment and warm welcome.
Executive Order 2015-O-11 – Appointment of Anthony Lucas as Chief of Police
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2015-EO-11 appointing Anthony
Lucas as Chief of Police effective July 1, 2015. He advised that Chief Shawn
Butler will officially retire effective June 30, 2015. City Attorney Jack
Gatlin read Executive Order 2015-O-11.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to accept Executive Order No. 2015-EO-11 appointing Anthony Lucas as
Chief of Police effective July 1, 2015. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Recognition of Police Officers
Assistant Chief Lucas stated the department has two officers being re-assigned.
Officer Brian Ferayorni has been reassigned to detective duties and Lieutenant
Mike Thatcher has been promoted to the rank of Captain. Mayor Reinersman
offered recognition to each officer for their achievement in the department.
Approval of the May 4, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, May 4, 2015. Council Member Yeager so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Pelly Road Discussion Regarding Closure and Needed Repairs
Mayor Reinersman addressed Council and the residents regarding the recent
closure of through traffic on Pelly Road between SR17 and Fowler Creek Road. He
stated that a truck hit the guardrail on the bridge near the intersection at
Fowler Creek Road and that for safety reasons the State has ordered the road
closed until the bridge can be replaced or repaired. Mayor Reinersman stated he
has been discussing all options with both State and City engineers to determine
repair or replacement of this bridge and associated costs in order to get the
road re-opened as soon as possible.
Mayor Reinersman stated this narrow, windy road cannot handle semi-trucks and
that he has heard the GPS maps are directing truckers onto this State route. He
stated the City had been addressing the signage issue to deter trucks from
using this road even before the guardrail was damaged again. And the truckers
have ignored the road signs that have been installed.
Mayor Reinersman stated that he is aware that this section of Pelly Road is a
popular route for local residents as it connects Route 16 with Route 17 and
ideally the City would want to make the necessary repairs or replace the
bridge. But this will be a major expense and the City will have to look at the
cost estimates and possible funding options. He stated one option would be to
apply for emergency State road aid. He advised the City participates in the
Municipal Road Aid Co-operative Agreement each year which allows the City to
apply for emergency funds.
At this time Mayor Reinersman opened the floor for comments from the audience.
Jim Woeste – 157 Pelly Road – suggested that Pelly Road be dead-ended and would
like Council to consider that as an option. He stated that Pelly Road is an old
country road that was never meant to handle a high volume of traffic. He stated
that he realizes making this a dead-end will inconvenience some through traffic
travelers. He stated that trucks have no business using this road and signs
will not eliminate the truckers from taking this route. He stated the Pelly
Road-Fowler Creek intersection would have to be re-designed to handle this
higher volume of traffic. He stated the new SR17 has created this additional
traffic onto their road.
Deb Egbers, 211 Pelly Road – commented that a new bridge won’t solve the
problem and suggested making Pelly Road a dead-end or building a better
connector road. She stated she has a lot of relatives that live on Pelly Road
and with the re-routing of the new SR17 and the city’s population explosion the
road is just not safe anymore. She stated the school busses have to pull over
to the side of the road to stop for pick up/drop off of the children and that
she has seen trucks back up to turn around when they find they can’t make it
through the intersection at Fowler Creek Road. She stated there needed to be a
long-term solution and not just a new bridge or repair to the bridge.
Mayor Reinersman stated he appreciated the comments and everyone is making
valid points but the City will need to also look at the cause and effects of a
permanent road closure. He agreed that Fowler Creek Road and Oliver Road were
not good alternatives for diverting traffic. Mayor Reinersman also expressed
concern for maintaining a road which only accesses twenty or so homes. He
stated the City will continue to work on a resolution to keep trucks from using
Pelly Road, perhaps installing an overpass that would keep the top of a truck
from passing through. He stated he will keep everyone posted via updates on the
City Facebook page and City website.
Gina Egbers, 221 Pelly Road – suggested installing more signage on SR17 both
north and south directions.
Mayor Reinersman advised that he would speak with the State about directional
signs that Pelly Road is closed.
Jim Woeste, 157 Pelly Road – suggested that if the City does replace/repair the
bridge and re-open the road to through traffic that speed humps be installed to
slow the traffic down.
Again, Mayor Reinersman thanked everyone for their input and advised updates
would be posted on the City Facebook page and website.
Resolution No. 2015-R-09 – Authorizing Text Amendment Application
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-09 that would
authorize a zoning text amendment application that would add single family
residential dwellings in the R-2 zone. He introduced Tom Ackerman of Hearth
Home Communities who has proposed a patio home development on several acres
along Delaware Crossing between the Forest Run Subdivision and the apartment
complex. Mayor Reinersman stated the proposed development would have a lower
density than is currently zoned and that patio homes would attract empty
nesters.
Mr. Ackerman addressed Council that Hearth Homes Communities is proposing
ranch-style rental homes that will provided multiple floor plan options, of two
bedrooms, 2 baths and two car garages. He stated each unit will have high end
finishes that include granite countertops and stainless appliances. Mr.
Ackerman stated they are requesting an R-2 zone to develop ten units per acre
for a total of 78 units. He stated the original site plan, designed in the
1990’s, was for an apartment complex.
Council Member Franzen asked why they would rent instead of sell the units. Mr.
Ackerman stated it is basically a business decision to make this a rental
community as there is a strong market for this as it would not require a large
down payment or have homeowners’ association fees. He stated the monthly rental
fees would run between $1,400 - $1,700.
Mayor Reinersman commented that he did not feel the lower density would have a
negative impact on the area and that most developers would want to maximize
their site. Council Member Aseere asked about water retention. Mr. Ackerman
advised previous developers built a regional water basin in the area that will
utilized by this proposed development. Council Member Deaton asked if the
development would be constructed in phases. Mr. Ackerman advised it will be
completed at one time with site work taking three to five months and the
buildings constructed in sequential order (four months per building) so that
the development will be fully operational within 18-24 months from the start.
Council Member Bushong asked if the tenants would be charged a homeowners’ fee.
Mr. Ackerman advised there would be no homeowners’ fee but the tenants would
pay their utilities and trash service. He went on to say that Hearth Homes
would maintain all the grounds, appliances, etc.
Mayor Reinersman advised Council that the current multi-family zone would allow
more units on that site than is being proposed by Hearth Homes Communities. He
stated he feels this area would be a nice fit for the proposed patio homes. He
advised that the City’s text amendment application would be heard at the Kenton
County Planning Commission’s July 2nd public hearing and their recommendation
would be presented to Council at the August 3rd meeting.
City Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2015-R-09 that would authorize the
text amendment application that would add single family residential dwellings
in the R-2 zone. A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by
Council Member Aseere to adopt Resolution No. 2015-R-09. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2015-R-10 – Municipal Road Aid Co-Op Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-10 that would
authorize the execution of the Municipal Aid Coop Program contract with the
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2015. Mr.
Gatlin read Resolution No. 2015-R-10. Mayor Reinersman explained that the coop
agreement allows the City to apply for and receive emergency funds throughout
the year from the State road aid. He stated the City has received emergency
funds in recent years for bridge and other road projects.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Resolution No. 2015-R-10. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Award Bids for Street Repairs – 2015 Street Program & Crowe Road Improvements
Mayor Reinersman introduced Public Services Director Dan Koch who would present
bid results for road repairs.
Mr. Koch advised the first project was the 2015 Street Program which includes
repairs to five streets in the Beechgrove area: Wildwood, Woodcrest, Woodknoll,
Woodmeadow and Woodtop. He stated three bids were received from JPS
Construction, Len Riegler Blacktop and Paul Michels & Sons. He stated this bid
project also included an alternate bid for the complete repair of Timber Lane
which runs off of Bristow Road. Mr. Koch recommended awarding the bid for both
the base bid for the streets in Beechgrove ($400,375) and the alternate bid of
Timber Lane ($227,088.75). He also recommended awarding the bid to JPS
Construction as the best and lowest bid for the total bid amount of
$627,463.75. Mayor Reinersman agreed that it would be best to repair all these
streets at one time since the contractor will be in the same general area.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to award the 2015 Street Repair Program bids including the alternate bid
for repairs to Timber Lane to JPS Construction in the amount of $627,463.75.
Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Mr. Koch presented the bid proposals for the Crowe Road Improvements. He stated
two bids were received: Paul Michels & Sons in the amount of $47,402.50 and Len
Riegler Blacktop in the amount of $68,175.00. He stated the low bid came in
lower than the city engineer’s estimated cost. Mr. Koch advised that the City
has applied for emergency road aid to realign this road and repair the
embankment as the road is slipping into the creek. Council Member Bushong
questioned if this was previously realigned. Mr. Koch stated that Crowe Road
had a bridge replacement several years ago, not a realignment. Council Member
Franzen asked if the realignment would be a temporary or permanent fix. Mr.
Koch advised the road has been piered in two areas and this realignment would
be a permanent fix and should not need additional work for a long time.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Aseere
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to award the Crowe Road Improvements bid
to Paul Michels & Sons in the amount of $47,402.50. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-11 – Amending the 2014-2015 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-O-11, an
ordinance that would amend the 2014/2015 budget. Mr. Gatlin read Ordinance No.
2015-O-11.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-11, seconded
by Council Member Franzen. There being no discussion, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-12 – Adopting the 2015-2016 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-12 that would adopt the budget for the 2015/2016 fiscal year. City Attorney,
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2015-O-12 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-12. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-13 – Adopting the Personnel & Pay Classification Plan –
2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-O-13- that
will adopt an employee Pay and Classification Plan for the 2015/2016 fiscal
year. Mr. Gatlin read Ordinance No. 2015-O-13.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-13 enacting a personnel and pay
classification plan for City employees. There being no discussion, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-14 – Adopting the 2015 –S-12 Supplement to the Code of
Ordinances – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-O-14 that
would adopt the 2015-S-12 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing Corporation. Mr. Gatlin read Ordinance No. 2015-O-14.
Council Member Brinker moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-14, seconded by
Council Member Deaton. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he did not have anything to report and thanked everyone for
supporting his appointment as the new City Attorney.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he did not have anything to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman thanked everyone who supported, attended and/or contributed to
the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life challenge he participated in in
memory of long-time city attorney Jed K. Deters.
Mayor Reinersman announced the city will co-sponsor a 5K race this weekend in
support of Northern Kentucky Hates Heroin. He stated pre-registration is still
available and a link can be found on the City website.
Mayor Reinersman also announced this year’s July 4th Celebration will be held
on Friday and Saturday, July 3rd and 4th. He stated a new event this year will
be the release of 150 red/white/blue lanterns on Friday night. He thanked
Council Member Yeager for raising donations for the fireworks show on Saturday
night. Mayor Reinersman encouraged everyone to attend this annual two day
event.
Council Member Brinker also announced the summer concerts and family fun events
scheduled at the Memorial Park Amphitheater with the first event – the Madcap
Puppets – being held this Friday, June 5th.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:08 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
July 6, 2015
The regularly scheduled Independence City Council Meeting was CANCELLED
August 3, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 3,
2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence. Roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Lucas Deaton,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Council Member Bushong was absent. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and City Clerk
Patricia Taney.
Approval of the June 1, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, June 1, 2015. Council Member Yeager so moved, with
second by Council Member Brinker. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Police Officer Promotions
Mayor Reinersman introduced Police Chief Lucas who announced promotions in the
Police Department. He presented Sgt. Russell Wood with his new rank of
Lieutenant and Patrol Officer Jacob Boyle with his new rank of Sergeant. Chief
Lucas also announced that Patrol Officer Brian Ferayorni has been promoted to
the rank of Sergeant but was on vacation and unable to be here. Chief Lucas
thanked all the officers’ families and members of the Police Explorers for
attending this evening.
Key to City
Mayor Reinersman presented Council Member Tom Brinker with a Key to the City in
appreciation for his years of dedication to the annual Independence Day
Celebration. He applauded Council Member Brinker for his volunteer service to
the City.
Resolution No. 2015-R-11 – Authorizing a Grant Application with KOHS for Body
Armor Vest, Weapons and Ammunition
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-11 that would
authorize application for and upon approval to enter into an agreement with the
Kentucky Office of Homeland Security (KOHS) for grant funds for a Weapons
Project for body armor vests, weapons and ammunition.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to approve Resolution No. 2015-R-11. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2015-R-12 Approving a Stage II Development Plan in the
Courthouse Crossing and Located in a GMU Zone
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2015-R-12, which would approve a
Stage II Development Plan in the Courthouse Crossing development which is
located in a GMU zone. He stated Council would need to discuss any conditions
they would require for approval and insert the conditional language in this
Resolution. Mayor Reinersman introduced Bob Schroeder of Arlinghaus Builders
who sold the parcel to Jessica Ballard who proposes to construct a daycare
facility (Kentucky Learning Center) on the 1.9 acre site. The Courthouse
Crossing development is located at the corner of McCullum Pike and the New
SR17.
Mr. Schroeder advised the Kenton County Planning Commission has recommended
disapproval of this proposed Stage II plan for several reasons, but he feels
the proposed building, next to the St. Elizabeth medical building, will be a
perfect mix for the zone. He stated Ms. Ballard would like to stay with the
building design as proposed to the Planning Commission which includes an
enclosed, secure playground to provide safety measures for the children. Mr.
Schroeder stated there are questions regarding the street network within the
development but they are unable to modify the plan due to topography
limitations. He stated they will agree to connect the pedestrian walkways to
adjoin with the other parcels when St. Elizabeth completes their development.
Mayor Reinersman suggested they go ahead and extend the sidewalks now and then
St. Elizabeth would need to tie in. Another issue is the parking which Ms.
Ballard does not want shared parking with the other buildings due to security
issues for the daycare children. Mr. Schroeder stated the amenities in this
zone require signage plans which they have not yet submitted. He said they will
need to acquire land from the State of Kentucky for sign placement. He stated
they will pursue this acquisition with the State and signage will be installed
as soon as possible. He stated Ms. Ballard will also agree to an additional
amenity of an exterior bench. Mr. Schroeder advised the GMU zone requires at
least 40% transparency for all customer entrance walls. He stated Ms. Ballard
will agree to this condition. Mr. Schroeder also advised the load/unloading
area will be increased to meet the zone requirements.
Mayor Reinersman questioned the materials that would be used for the exterior
of the building – manufactured versus natural. He stated the GMU zone requires
the exterior materials be wood, stone, brick or a composite of similar style.
Mr. Schroeder commented that some composite materials are permitted in the GMU
zone with the natural materials.
Council Member Franzen asked if this development plan had a public hearing by
the Planning Commission (PDS). Mr. Gatlin advised that a unique feature of this
GMU zone is that final approval on the conditions would be made the City
Council, but PDS staff has advised that the proposed Stage II development plan
does not meet the GMU guidelines. Council Member Franzen asked if Ms. Ballard
was advised of this before she purchased the lot from Arlinghaus. Mayor
Reinersman stated he spoke with both Ms. Ballard and Mr. Schroeder and told
them he did not think this would meet the zone guidelines as well. Mr.
Schroeder stated he advised Ms. Ballard that this parcel was in a special zone
(GMU) but she has not been through this process before now and was not aware of
the conditions that would be imposed. Mr. Schroeder commented that a daycare is
a permitted use in this zone but that the GMU zone requires a unique process
which provides Council the opportunity to approve or disapprove specific
conditions.
Mr. Gatlin advised Council they have three options before them: 1) approve as
submitted; 2) approve with conditions; or 3) reject the proposed plan and then
Ms. Ballard will go back to the drawing board and present a different plan.
Council Member Franzen asked if a revised plan would go back to PDS for review.
He advised the revised plan would not go back to PDS, it would come back to
Council for review and approval/disapproval. He stated this was a unique
process that was set up when the zone was established – Council wanted final
say on this particular zone.
Council Member Aseere asked how many employees would be hired and if they would
close the other location in the Cherokee Plaza. Ms. Ballard stated they would
employ 30-40 full time employees and will continue some classes at the Cherokee
Plaza location.
Mr. Schroeder advised the lightning and landscape plans will be similar to the
St. Elizabeth medical building and will be designed to meet the requirements of
the zone. In closing, Mr. Schroeder stated that in reviewing the requirements
of the zone he believes the proposed development plan for this daycare building
meets the guidelines of the GMU zone.
Mr. Gatlin reviewed the guidelines discussed which included extending the
walkways, revising the windows to provide 40% transparency, revise the load/
unloading area and adding a minor amenity of a bench. He stated compliance with
these conditions would meet the intent of the zone.
Mayor Reinersman spoke about the intent of this mixed use zone (GMU). He stated
this zone is the gateway into the City and was intended as a unique zone to set
it apart from the other zones in the City. He stated ideally the façade of the
buildings would look like multiple buildings resembling a row of main street
shops. He stated he understands the problem of security for the daycare in
shared parking with the other buildings in the development, but that the
daycare should meet the zone requirements, not the other way around. Mayor
Reinersman advised this is not a question about the permitted use but the
vision of this zone. He stated a committee spent eighteen (18) months on the
process of establishing the guidelines of this zone to provide for a
distinctive gateway to the City without making it too restrictive and it
received unanimous approval by the City Council. Mr. Schroeder stated the
building materials for the exterior do meet the zone requirements and he feels
it is a nice design. He stated the fence along the rear play area will
complement the area and reiterated that a daycare is a permitted use in this
zone and in his opinion the development plan meets the requirements of the
zone.
Council Member Franzen asked PDS Senior Planner Andy Videkovich how they could
meet the intent of the zone. Mr. Videkovich advised it is not the use, but the
design and layout of the building that is not consistent with the GMU zone. A
discussion ensued regarding the design of the daycare building in this
development. Mayor Reinersman commented that the St. Elizabeth medical building
is not visible from the street so the proposed building doesn’t have to match
that building. Council Member Franzen commented that while she is not opposed
to the proposed building design, it may become a precedent that will be hard to
break. Council Member Brinker asked Mr. Schroeder how many lots were in this
development. Mr. Schroeder advised there are a total of eight acres, only six
of which are buildable, for a total of five building parcels. Mayor Reinersman
advised the entire GMU zone encompasses a total of forty acres.
Council Member Aseere suggested tabling action on this Stage II Development
Plan until the September meeting and until a common ground could be determined.
Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Aseere. Roll call
was answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding “Single Family
Residential Dwellings (attached)” as a Permitted Use Within the R-2 Zone – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would amend the zoning ordinance adding single family residential
dwellings (attached) as a permitted use within the R-2 Zone. Mr. Gatlin gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving Street Name Change from Centennial Blvd. to
Richard Wainscott Way – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would rename a portion of Centennial Boulevard that intersects with
Declaration Drive and Madison Pike to “Richard Wainscott Way.” Mr. Gatlin gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Authorizing Delinquent Fowler Creek Sewer Assessments to
be Added to the Annual Tax Bill – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would stop the Fowler Creek Sewer Assessment and provide for the placement
of the delinquent assessments on the City ad valorem tax bill and would repeal
Ordinance No. 2012-O-02 that deals with the collection of unpaid assessments.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mr. Gatlin advised this ordinance will allow the City to directly place the
delinquent assessment accounts on the annual property tax bill for future
notice and collection of the unpaid assessments. He stated he has provided the
Mayor a letter of his legal opinion regarding the placement of this assessment
delinquency on the tax bills.
Resolution No. 2015-R-13 – Accepting the Needs Assessment Report Identifying
the Future Cable Related Community Needs in Connection with the Renewal of the
Cable Franchise Presently Held by Insight Kentucky Partners
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-13 that would
approve and adopt the Needs Assessment Report identifying the future cable
related community needs and interests of the City in connection with the
renewal of the cable television franchise presently held by Insight Kentucky
Partners, II, L.P. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2015-R-13.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to adopt Resolution No. 2015-R-13. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Award Bids for the Purchase of a Ford 550 Dump Truck for the Public Services
Department
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council one bid that was received from Fuller
Ford for the purchase of a 550 Series, four wheel drive dump truck in the
amount of $69,350.00. Mr. Moriconi advised this bid amount is in line with the
budgeted funds and the truck is the same style that has been purchased in the
past. He stated the Public Services Director likes this truck model in terms of
power and transmission. He stated he hopes to get the truck ordered and
delivered in November in time for snow removal months.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Yeager to award the bid to Fuller Ford in the amount of $69,350.00. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2015-R-14 - Memorandum of Agreement for the Northern Kentucky
Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-14 that would
approve a Memorandum of Agreement for participation in the Northern Kentucky
Regional Hazard Mitigation Planning. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2015-R-14.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to approve Resolution No. 2015-R-14. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated his first forty days on the job as the City’s attorney has
been a pleasure. He reported that he has entered appearances in all the City’s
bank foreclosure cases and advised there are forty-nine (49) active cases which
he will be monitoring.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi updated Council on the Pelly Road Bridge closing. He advised they
met with the engineers from the Transportation Cabinet’s District 6 office to
discuss options for the bridge repair. He stated the City has been awarded
$56,700 in emergency road aid from the State to help offset the repair costs.
He hopes to have more updates at the September meeting.
Mr. Moriconi also reported the Kenton County driver’s license testing office in
the rear of the old Kroger building officially opens for business tomorrow.
Council Member Yeager asked if the City has received word on the award of the
grant application for amphitheater project. Mr. Moriconi responded that he
expects to hear something by September or October.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman thanked everyone that helped make the annual Independence Day
Celebration a great success again this year. He expressed his sadness at the
passing of Vito Casullo whose fireworks display each year was the highlight of
the two-day event. He also thanked all the sponsors, and especially thanked
Council Member Yeager for soliciting the sponsors who contribute to the
fireworks show each year.
Proclamation – World Overdose Prevention Day – Mayor Reinersman stated the
Heroin Drug Task Force has approached all the cities in Northern Kentucky to
proclaim August 31, 2015 as Overdose Prevention Day in Independence. He read
the Proclamation. A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by
Council Member Aseere in favor of the Proclamation. The motion carried with all
ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:25 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
August 24, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, August 24, 2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and City Clerk Patricia
Taney.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special meeting of Council was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
1.   Introduction of Mike Carpenter as the City’s new Building Inspector
2.   Municipal Order No. 2015-MO-02 - Appointment of a City Representative to
the County Joint Code Enforcement Board
3.   Ordinance No. 2015-O-15 – Approving Street Name Change from Centennial
Blvd. to Richard Wainscott Way – 2nd Reading
4.   Ordinance No. 2015-O-16 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding “Single
Family Residential Dwellings (attached)” as a Permitted Use Within the R-2 Zone
– 2nd Reading
5.   Resolution 2015-R-12 - Approval of Stage II Development Plan in GMU Zone
6.   Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2015 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
7.   Proposed Ordinance – Establishing for Bid a Non-Exclusive Natural Gas
Franchise for the placement of Facilities Within the Public Right-of-Way of the
City – 1st Reading
8.   Proposed Ordinance – Establishing for Bid a Non-Exclusive Electric
Franchise for the Placement of Facilities of Electrical Energy within the
Public Right-of-Way of the City – 1st Reading
9.   Proposed Ordinance – Establishing the Authority of the Kenton County
Unified Code Enforcement Board and Amending the City Code of Ordinances
Regarding Nuisances and Classification of Certain Offenses as Civil Offenses –
1st Reading
10.   Proposed Ordinance – Repealing Ordinance No. 2004-O-14 and Adopting the
2012 International Property Maintenance Code and Providing for the Issuance of
Permits and Collection of Fees – 1st Reading
11.   Authorizing an Extension of Agreement with Ernst Concrete
12.   Executive Session (if necessary)
Mayor Reinersman advised that only the items listed on this agenda would be
discussed at this meeting.
Mayor Reinersman made a request to move the last agenda item, authorizing an
Extension of the Agreement with Ernst Concrete to the second agenda item.
Council Member Brinker so moved, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion
carried with all ayes.
Introduction of Mike Carpenter as the City’s new Building Inspector
Mayor Reinersman introduced Mike Carpenter to Council as the City’s new
Building Inspector. He stated that Mike is a resident of Independence and has a
long history as a Building Inspector.
Mr. Carpenter gave a brief overview of building permits issued last year,
saying that at this time last year 80 permits had been issued versus 74 permits
issued so far this year. A total of 324 building permits were issued in 2014
and this year the total is currently at 281. He stated total fees collected
last year were $190,000 compared to $187,000 collected to date for 2015.
Mr. Carpenter stated he is happy to be the Building Inspector for Independence
and has been staying busy with all the development in the City.
Council Member Bushong asked Mr. Carpenter about his background and experience.
Mr. Carpenter advised he is a 1997 graduate of Northern Kentucky University and
worked in the private sector before working at PDS (Planning and Development
Services of NKY) for fourteen years and most recently spent two years as
Campbell County’s Building Inspector.
Council Member Brinker asked if Mr. Carpenter would be doing commercial
building inspections as well as residential. Mr. Carpenter stated that while he
has the qualifications to perform those inspection the Planning Commission
(PDS) would continue to inspect the State level buildings for now.
Authorizing an Extension of Agreement with Ernst Concrete
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council an amended price quote from Ernst
Concrete that would extend the current contract with them to furnish ready mix
concrete for the various projects handled by the Public Services Department. He
stated the current contract permits an extension/renewal for three one-year
periods.
Hearing no comments from Council, Mayor Reinersman asked for a motion to
approve. So moved by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council member
Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2015-MO-02 - Appointment of a City Representative to the
Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2015-MO-02 that would
appoint Greg Waite to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board. He
advised that the City’s current representative on this Board, Catherine Wilson,
has taken a job transfer out of State and has resigned from the Board. He
stated that Greg Waite is a retired firefighter from the Independence Fire
District and he feels he will be a good representative for the City on this
Code Enforcement Board.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Aseere to adopt Municipal Order 2015-MO-02 appointing Greg Waite to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-15 – Approving Street Name Change from Centennial Blvd. to
Richard Wainscott Way – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-15, an ordinance that would rename a portion of Centennial Boulevard that
intersects with Declaration Drive and Madison Pike to “Richard Wainscott Way.”
Mr. Gatlin read Ordinance No. 2015-O-15.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-R-15. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-16 – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding “Single
Family Residential Dwellings (attached)” as a Permitted Use Within the R-2 Zone
– 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-16 that would amend the zoning ordinance adding single family residential
dwellings (attached) as a permitted use within the R-2 Zone. Mr. Gatlin read
Ordinance No. 2015-O-16.
A motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-R-16. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution 2015-R-12 - Approval of Stage II Development Plan in GMU Zone
Mayor Reinersman re-introduced Resolution No. 2015-R-12 which was tabled at the
August 3rd meeting to provide more time to iron out the conditions that would
need to be met by the property owner to comply with approval of this Stage II
Development Plan in the GMU zone located in the Courthouse Crossing development
at the corner of McCullum and New SR17.
Mr. Bob Schroeder of Arlinghaus Builders who is the Courthouse Crossing
developer stated that he understands and is in agreement with the conditions
and changes made to the exterior design. Joe Brumback of B.L. Spille
Construction stated that the asphalt products used for the project will meet or
exceed the requirements for this zone. A brief discussion ensued regarding the
redesign of the building exterior to meet the 40% transparency requirement with
Mr. Schroeder agreeing to note the types of materials that would be used on the
revised plan.
Council Member Franzen read a prepared statement wherein she voiced her
opposition to approving this Stage II Development Plan. She feels that the
property owner (Jessica Ballard) was advised of the intent of the GMU zone
prior to purchasing the property, then designed the building concept that did
not fit the intent of the zone. Council Member Franzen went on to say that as
part of the Small Area Study, a Committee was formed and the members were
assigned the task of creating new zones for the downtown and gateway areas. She
stated a lot of Committee time and money was spend to implement the final
product. She stated she feels strongly that if the Council votes to approve
this that the City would be going against the plan intended for the GMU zone.
She stated that more is expected in this zone and the intent should be honored
and the decision to approve this Stage II plan should be based on the intent.
Council Member Yeager commented that the St. Elizabeth medical building that
was approved and built there did not fit the intent of the GMU zone either.
Mayor Reinersman commented that the Planning Commission staff recommendation
was to disapprove this plan.
Council Member Yeager moved to approve Resolution No. 2015-R-12 that would
authorize the Stage II Development Plan for the approximate 1.9 acre area
located at 155 Courthouse Crossing for the Kentucky Learning Center. The motion
was seconded by Council Member Aseere.
Further discussion ensued. Council Member Deaton commented that he has read the
Small Area Study and feels the City should honor the Study, but feels it is
hard to stop business growth with a Plan that was basically adopted ten years
ago. He stated both have legitimate weight but the City needs to be flexible
and not punish future business growth for mistakes that may have been made in
the past. Council Member Franzen reiterated the process in developing these new
zones was a long undertaking by the Committee and the City invested in the
Study that should not be put on the shelf and never implemented. Council Member
Aseere commented that the City should be flexible with the businesses and that
government should not get in the way of entrepreneurs.
At this time roll was called on Council Member Yeager’s motion and answered
with five ayes and one no cast by Council Member Franzen.
Mr. Gatlin re-read Resolution No. 2015-R-12 which included the following agreed
upon conditions for approval of the Stage II Development Plan for an
approximate 1.9 acre area located at 155 Courthouse Crossing:
1.   Sidewalk connectors to other parcels pursuant to staff approval and
recommendation
2.   Landscaping Plan pursuant to staff approval and recommendation
3.   Lighting Plan pursuant to staff approval and recommendation
4.   Minimal amenities to include a decorative bench
5.   Final asphalt specifications will meet or exceed staff recommendation
6.   Drawings and specifications for rear elevation pursuant to the attached
Exhibit “A” and including as materials: hardiplank siding, brick and split
faced block
7.   Final Plan will meet or exceed transparency requirements for GMU zone and
subject to staff approval and recommendation
Mr. Gatlin requested Council re-affirm approval of Resolution No. 2015-R-12
with a motion and vote. Council Member Yeager so moved with second by Council
Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered with five ayes and one no vote cast
by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2015 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman submitted for a first reading a proposed ordinance that would
adopt the real estate and personal property tax rates for 2015. Mr. Gatlin read
the proposed ordinance that would adopt the compensating tax rates that have
been calculated at $0.254/$100 assessed value for real estate property and
$0.642/$100 assessed value for personal property.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing for Bid a Non-Exclusive Natural Gas Franchise
for the placement of Facilities Within the Public Right-of-Way of the City –
1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would create and establish for bid a non-exclusive natural gas franchise
for the placement of facilities for transmission, distribution and sale of
natural gas within the public right-of-way of the City for a ten (10) year
duration and reserving the right to impose a franchise fee in the sum of up to
five percent (5%) of gross receipts per year. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing for Bid a Non-Exclusive Electric Franchise
for the Placement of Facilities of Electrical Energy within the Public Right-
of-Way of the City – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would create and establish for bid a non-exclusive electric franchise for
the placement of facilities for the transmission, distribution and sale of
electrical energy within the public right-of-way of the City for a ten (10)
year duration reserving the right to impose a franchise fee in the sum of up to
five percent (5%) of gross receipts per year. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing the Authority of the Kenton County Unified
Code Enforcement Board and Amending the City Code of Ordinances Regarding
Nuisances and Classification of Certain Offenses as Civil Offenses – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would establish the authority of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement
Board and amend the City’s Code of Ordinances regarding nuisances and
classification of certain offenses as civil offenses. He explained this
amendment is basically a housekeeping issue to give more power to the Code
Enforcement Officer and Board. Mr. Gatlin read the proposed ordinance and
advised Council that additionally this revision will provide that being found
guilty of a violation will be a civil offense rather than a misdemeanor thereby
keeping this in-house to be handled under the authority of the Joint Code
Enforcement Board.
Council Member Deaton asked if the other cities handled this similarly. Mr.
Gatlin replied yes and it will give the cities more power to keep it at the
Code Enforcement level rather than going through the court system.
Council Member Brinker asked about Section II (C) relating to a person that is
served but does not abate the nuisance within the time frame. Mr. Gatlin stated
this would allow the City to cut the grass, etc. and recoup the City’s cost to
do so thereby strengthening enforcement.
Proposed Ordinance – Repealing Ordinance No. 2004-O-14 and Adopting the 2012
International Property Maintenance Code and Providing for the Issuance of
Permits and Collection of Fees – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading a proposed ordinance
that would repeal Ordinance No. 2004-O-14 which adopted the 2003 International
Property maintenance Code and adopt the 2012 International Property Maintenance
Code and all subsequent amendments and future editions thereto. Mr. Gatlin gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Brinker
and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:43 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
September 14, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
14, 2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong gave the invocation.
Mayor Reinersman asked for a moment of silence out of respect for all police
officers especially fallen Kentucky State Officer Joseph Ponder who was shot
and killed while conducting a traffic stop on Sunday. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney and Attorney Tim Spille
who was filling in for his associate, City Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the August 3, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, August 3, 2015. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
second by Council Member Brinker. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered with five ayes and one abstain from Council Member
Bushong. Motion carried 5-1.
Approval of the August 24, 2015 Special Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the special
meeting held on Monday, August 24, 2015. Council Member Bushong so moved, with
second by Council Member Franzen. No amendments to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2015-R-15 – Approving an Interlocal Agreement Creating the
Florence, Erlanger, Elsmere and Independence Unified Police Protection System &
Authorizing the Mayor to Sign all Relevant Documents
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-15 that would
approve joining an Interlocal agreement with the cities of Florence, Erlanger
and Elsmere to create a unified police protection system and authorize the
mayor to sign all the relevant documents. Mr. Spille read Resolution No. 2015-
R-15.
Mayor Reinersman advised Council that Chief Lucas had learned of this
Interlocal agreement between Florence, Erlanger and Elsmere that created full
policing powers across jurisdictional lines of those cities and felt this would
be good for Independence as well as it would create an added layer of
protection for our citizens. He stated that many of the police officers may
live in one city and work in the other so this will allow them to have
authority in both cities going to and from work.
Resolution No. 2015-R-16 – PDS Agreement to Add another Level of Service
Relating to Nuisance Issues
Mayor Reinersman advised Council that he would like to remove Resolution No.
2015-R-16 from the agenda as he has some concerns about making the jump from
Service Level 2 to Service Level 4 specifically with regard to the higher fee
structure. The City currently pays 25% of PDS’ actual costs and advancing to
Level 4 would require the City to pay 75% of PDS’ actual costs for Level 4. He
stated that PDS Executive Director Dennis Gordon was out of town, so he was
unable to discuss them increase in the fee schedule. He stated he would like to
scratch this agenda item and will consider placing it on the October 5th
meeting agenda after he discusses this with Mr. Gordon.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-17 – Adopting 2015 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-17 that would adopt the real estate and personal property tax rates for 2015.
Mr. Spille gave Ordinance No. 2015-O-17 a second reading to adopt the
compensating tax rates that have been calculated at $0.254/$100 assessed value
for real estate property and $0.642/$100 assessed value for personal property.
Council Member Bushong moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-17 with a second by
Council Member Yeager. There being no discussion, roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-18 – Establishing for Bid a Non-Exclusive Natural Gas
Franchise for the placement of Facilities Within the Public Right-of-Way of the
City – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-18 that would create and establish for bid a non-exclusive natural gas
franchise for the placement of facilities for transmission, distribution and
sale of natural gas within the public right-of-way of the City for a ten (10)
year duration and reserving the right to impose a franchise fee in the sum of
up to five percent (5%) of gross receipts per year. Mr. Spille gave Ordinance
No. 2015-O-18 a second reading.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Aseere to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-18. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-19– Establishing for Bid a Non-Exclusive Electric
Franchise for the Placement of Facilities of Electrical Energy within the
Public Right-of-Way of the City –2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-19 that would create and establish for bid a non-exclusive electric franchise
for the placement of facilities for the transmission, distribution and sale of
electrical energy within the public right-of-way of the City for a ten (10)
year duration reserving the right to impose a franchise fee in the sum of up to
five percent (5%) of gross receipts per year. Mr. Spille gave Ordinance No.
2015-O-19 a second reading.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Aseere and
seconded by Council Member Yeager to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-19. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-20 – Establishing the Authority of the Kenton County
Unified Joint Code Enforcement Board and Amending the City Code of Ordinances
Regarding Nuisances and Classification of Certain Offenses as Civil Offenses –
2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-20 that would establish the authority of the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board and also amend the City’s Code of Ordinances regarding
nuisances and classification of certain offenses as civil offenses. He
explained this amendment is basically a housekeeping issue to reclassify
certain offenses as civil, not a misdemeanor, thereby making the civil offenses
subject to the jurisdiction of the Joint Code Enforcement Board for quicker
action. Mr. Spille gave Ordinance No. 2015-O-20 a second reading.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Brinker and
seconded by Council Member Bushong to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-20. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-21 – Repealing Ordinance No. 2004-O-14 and Adopting the
2012 International Property Maintenance Code and Providing for the Issuance of
Permits and Collection of Fees –2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-21, ordinance that would repeal Ordinance No. 2004-O-14 which adopted the
2003 International Property maintenance Code and adopt the 2012 International
Property Maintenance Code and all subsequent amendments and future editions
thereto. Mr. Spille gave a second reading to Ordinance No. 2015-O-21.
There being no discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Aseere and
seconded by Council Member Deaton to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-21. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Tim Spille (sitting in for Jack Gatlin)
Mayor Reinersman introduced Tim Spille, associate of City Attorney Jack Gatlin,
and thanked him for filling in tonight as the City’s legal counsel. Mr. Spille
made a few comments and advised he did not have a formal report to present.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi updated Council on the Pelly Road Bridge closing. He advised they
have been in on-going discussions with the engineers and is hopeful he will
have a more tangible plan for repairs to the bridge in the coming weeks.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Pelly Road Bridge Discussion - Mayor Reinersman reported he was invited to
speak to a third grade class at Summit View Academy and was even questioned
about the Pelly Road Bridge by one of the students. Council Member Bushong
asked what steps could be taken to prevent repeat damage by trucks in the
future. Mayor Reinersman stated the City Engineer suggested a concrete wall
that would be attached to the southern box beam, instead of a guardrail. This
should prevent trucks from knocking it off. Additionally, he feels an ordinance
prohibiting trucks on this section of roadway may be necessary. In response to
Council Member Deaton’s question, Mayor Reinersman stated they have confirmed
that truckers are getting GPS routing directions to Pelly Road. He stated they
are attempting to contact these companies to request they provide alternate
routes. Council Member Yeager asked if consideration was being given to close
Pelly Road to through traffic and install a school bus turn-around. Mayor
Reinersman advised the City Engineer is confident that the wall option will be
a good fix at $250,000. He stated the City received $57,000 in State Emergency
Municipal Road Aid which was based on an $80,000 repair cost, but with a new
$250,000 repair estimate, the City may have to go back to the State and request
more emergency funding. Mayor Reinersman stated a bridge replacement that would
include abutments would run around $820,000. Mr. Moriconi advised that the
$250,000 repair estimate takes the surface and to reconfigure the intersection
entirely would be well over a million dollar project. Mayor Reinersman advised
it would be a multimillion project to build a new bridge and realign the
intersection. He stated a repair cost of $250,000 would include an additional
box beam and that the City will continue to look for the funds to make these
repairs.
Mayor Reinersman that he, along with Council Member Bushong, attended the
Northern Kentucky 911 Memorial dedication ceremony in Crescent Springs where
the memorial is located. He stated it was an impressive ceremony and they had a
good turnout.
Mayor Reinersman encouraged everyone to attend the Kenton County Farm Harvest
Tour this Saturday. He stated more information about the Tour can be found on
the City Facebook page and there are brochures in the lobby.
Mayor Reinersman stated that this year’s annual Christmas Walk will be held on
Saturday, December 5th. He stated a new event this year will be a 5K Santa Run
on Saturday afternoon.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:22 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
October 5, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
5, 2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong gave the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney
and City Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Proclamation – Kenton County SWAT Team
Mayor Reinersman stated that in August the Kenton County SWAT Team responded to
a hostage situation in the Troopers Crossing Subdivision. He stated the Team
was able to convince the subject to release the hostages providing a good
resolution for them and the resident’s in the area. Mayor Reinersman presented
a Proclamation to Kenton County Sheriff Korzenborn and all the members of the
SWAT Team honoring their service and commending them for their heroic efforts.
Sheriff Korzenborn advised the Team members are officers from all law
enforcement agencies in Kenton County.
Police Recognition
Mayor Reinersman introduced Police Chief Lucas who recognized Police Officers
Jeff Young and Mark Fielding who were recently appointed as detectives for the
department.
Approval of the September 14, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on Monday, September 14, 2015. Council Member Bushong so moved,
with second by Council Member Aseere. No amendments to the minutes were noted,
roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2015-R-17 – Approving the Transfer of Control of Time Warner
Cable, Inc. and Insight Kentucky Partners II, LP to Charger Communications
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-17 that would
approve the transfer of control of Time Warner Cable, Inc. and Insight Kentucky
Partners II, LP to Charter Communications. Mayor Reinersman acknowledged the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky (TBNK) for the role they played
in the negotiations of this transfer. He stated TBNK addressed service issues
for local subscribers, etc. He went on to say that the deadline for the
transfer was extended to November 12, 2015 after which it will move forward for
federal (FCC) and Department of Justice review and approval. Mayor Reinersman
also thanked John Richardson, the City’s local representative, for his work
with this Board.
A motion was made by Council member Franzen and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to approve Resolution No. 2015-R-17. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Accept Bid and Award of Non-Exclusive Electric Franchise
for 10 Years to Owen Electric – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance confirming the sale
and awarding a non-exclusive franchise to Owen Electric Energy for a term of
ten years for the placement of electrical facilities for the transmission,
distribution and sale of electrical energy along and under public right-of-ways
within the City. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Accept Bid and Award of Non-Exclusive Electric Franchise
for 10 Years to Duke Energy – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance confirming the sale
and awarding a non-exclusive franchise to Duke Energy Kentucky for a term of
ten years for the placement of electrical facilities for the transmission,
distribution and sale of electrical energy along and under public right-of-ways
within the City. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Accept Bid and Award of Non-Exclusive Gas Franchise for 10
Years to Duke Energy – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance confirming the sale
and awarding a non-exclusive franchise to Duke Energy Kentucky for a term of
ten years for the placement of facilities for the transmission, distribution
and sale of natural gas along and under public right-of-ways within the City.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Declare Surplus Property
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council an inventory list of old electronic
equipment that includes outdated and broken computers, monitors scanners,
calculators, keyboards, printers and related items that need to be declared as
surplus property for the purpose of recycling and/or destruction. He stated the
items have little or minimal value and are not worth donating to another
municipality or non-profit agency.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve the inventory list as surplus
property, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack S. Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin reported to Council he continues to file counter claims, on sixty
one properties that are in the process of foreclosure, in an effort to collect
on delinquent property taxes and/or the Fowler Creek Sewer assessment. He
stated that since more property taxes are held in escrow accounts that only
twenty or thirty of these cases are for delinquent taxes.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi updated Council on the Pelly Road Bridge stating that the
Emergency Road Aid will provide the maximum funding amount of $100,000 (which
was originally requested). They originally stated they would provide $57,000
but with the help of the Fiscal Court and the State, they upped their funding
to the maximum amount requested.
Mr. Moriconi also mentioned the last outdoor event at the Amphitheater. The
event will be on Saturday, October 17, 2015 at 7:00pm. Madcap Puppets will be
performing The Legend of Sleepy Hollow and the first 150 children in attendance
will receive trick or treat bags filled with goodies. If it rains, the event
will be held inside the Senior Center.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Executive Order 2015-EO-13 – Appointment of Lucas Deaton to the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky, replacing John Richardson who
recently resigned.
Mayor Reinersman reported the Helping a Hero organization held a Groundbreaking
Ceremony on Monday, September 21, 2015 in the Williamswoods Subdivision for a
house that will be built for Army veteran Paul Brondhaver who was injured in
Iraq while on active duty. The Helping a Hero organization will be
collaborating with Arlinghaus Builders to build a custom designed house for
this veteran. The groundbreaking ceremony was the biggest turnout the
organization has seen so far. The Mayor invited everyone to attend the ribbon
cutting ceremony in March or April of 2016 when the house is complete.
Mayor Reinersman asked if anyone had anything else to add. Council Member
Franzen mentioned a thank you to the Public Works department for fixing curbs
in her neighborhood. Chris Moriconi added a thank you to the city staff for
their hard work on the tax bill preparation and friendly customer service to
residents coming in and calling regarding their tax bills.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Brinker to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:27 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
November 9, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
8, 2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong gave the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney and
City Attorney Jack Gatlin. Council Member Bill Aseere was absent.
Approval of the October 5, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on October 5, 2015. Council Member Yeager so moved, with a second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendment to the minutes were noted, roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Discussion relating to a Stage II Development Plan for a Daycare at 146
McCullum Road (Hofstetter property)
Mayor Reinersman began the discussion for possible action for a proposed
daycare development at 146 McCullum Road. Mr. Wallace Boggs law firm Attorney
Bill Boggs, who represents the Littlest Angels and LA Properties, addressed
council. Bill Boggs stated that the Littlest Angels Daycare will fit into the
GMU zone requirements including green space, walkable environments, social
interaction, outdoor activities, creating a sense of space and a walkable
environment.
Carrie DePue, Director and owner of Littlest Angels Daycare in Union, Kentucky,
stated the proposed daycare would not be a commercial type center but more of a
residential type center. The center will provide an extended family setting and
will include a playground, green space with walking trail and fencing for
security. She also stated that the daycare would offer space for the kids to go
outside to have relay races, play soccer, build snowmen, nature walks, all of
which cannot be found at the typical commercial type centers. Council asked
about the staff size of the proposed center and Ms. DePue stated that her staff
at the Union facility is currently between 23 and 28 and that she would expect
to have similar staffing levels for the proposed Independence center when the
three phases of construction are complete.
Mayor Reinersman stated the Planning and Development Services (PDS) has
recommended disapproval of the proposed plan, citing eleven conditions that do
not meet the Gateway Mixed Use (GMU) zone requirements. Council Member Franzen
stated that she didn’t think that the 40% transparency should apply for this
building. Council Member Deaton commented this daycare proposal should be held
to the same requirements that were asked of the previous daycare proposal and
should have a similar agreement. Bill Boggs addressed some of the issues PDS
commented on in their recommendation for disapproval of the Plan. He stated
construction materials would consist of hardy board siding; they will comply
with lighting requirements; the driveway measurements have been updated for
compliance and they would supply/comply with signage regulations. Council
Member Brinker stated that he would like to see drawings of the proposed
building as well as responses to all eleven items that PDS outlined in their
recommendation before he would be comfortable with approving the proposed
development plan.
Council Member Yeager moved to approve the proposed Stage II development plan
contingent upon completing the eleven conditions as recommended by PDS. A
second was made by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and the answered with
two ayes cast by Council Members Yeager and Deaton and three nays cast by
Council Members Brinker, Bushong and Franzen. Motion failed 2-3.
Mayor Reinersman suggested the developer/owner make revisions to the
development plan and address the Council at the December 7th meeting. He
advised they come back with pictures of the current building on the site and
renderings of the planned modifications to that structure, a good site plan,
blueprints, elevation plan, lighting plan and signage drawings to specifically
address each of the eleven conditions of the GMU zone.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance to annex three
parcels in unincorporated Kenton County located along Madison Pike and north of
Patriot Way. He advised Council the City was contacted by O’Reilly Auto Parts
who expressed interest in building a store on the one vacant parcel. He stated
this area along Madison Pike has an odd shape island that is unincorporated and
since it receives City services he felt the City should probably consider
annexing the area. He stated since one of the vacant parcels is owned by the
Kenton County Fiscal Court he contacted the County to let them know of the
City’s intention to annex the area and they stated they would not object to the
annexation. The other two parcels include another vacant lot and the Dollar
General Store lot. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mayor Reinersman advised the City Clerk would send notice to the property
owners of the City’s intent to annex the parcels.
Resolution No. 2015-R-18 – Authorizing a Zoning Text Amendment Application
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2015-R-18 authorizing a
zoning text amendment application to amend the language of a Neighborhood
Commercial (NC) zone to allow that an “automotive parts and accessories” store
would be considered as a permitted us. He stated this added use to the NC zone
is in anticipation of the O’Reilly Auto Parts store locating on the site the
City is proposing to annex. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Council Member Franzen moved to approve Resolution No. 2015-R-18, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Municipal Order No. 2015-O-03 – Adopting the “Independence Complete Streets
Policy”
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a Municipal Order No. 2015-O-03 for the
adoption of the Complete Streets Policy for the city. He introduced Kelly
Schwegman of the Northern Kentucky Health Department who gave a PowerPoint
presentation that provided a detailed explanation of a Complete Streets Policy
that sets forth guiding principles and practices for public transportation
projects to encourage walking, bicycling and other non-motorized forms of
transit to encourage being physically active. Elements would include bike
lanes, sidewalks, crosswalks, pedestrian signs, etc. Ms. Schwegman discussed
the benefits of Complete Streets which are: improved safety, increased physical
activity, improved air quality, safer routes to school, etc. The Mayor advised
Council that, when practical and economical, the City could apply some of these
guidelines. He stated that by adopting this policy now it would give the City
options to address when doing future projects. He went on to say this is
considered a long term policy and the City would not be committed to
implementing these guideline features right away. In addition, the Mayor stated
that by adopting this policy, it may increase grant approvals for the City
through OKI and will not cost the city anything to adopt this Policy.
After a brief question and answer period and there being no further discussion,
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Municipal Order No. 2015-MO-03, with a
second by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered with three ayes
cast by Council members Franzen, Brinker and Bushong and two no votes cast by
Council Members Yeager and Deaton. Motion carried 3-2.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-22 - Award Electric Franchise to Owen Electric – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-22 for the award of a non-exclusive electric energy franchise for the term of
ten years to Owen Electric. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2015-O-22 a second
reading. Council Member Bushong asked how much revenue these franchise fees
would generate for the City and if the Mayor had specific uses for this
revenue. Mayor Reinersman stated that by implementing electric and gas
franchise fees it is anticipated the City will generate about $300,000 in
annual revenue. He advised there are many needs for Police Department, Public
Services Department and Parks that this revenue will benefit. He cited the
needed repairs to the Pelly Road Bridge as an example of a project that would
benefit from this new source of revenue. He stated it recently came to his
attention these franchise fees were in place at one time but in recent years
the franchise agreement/fees had expired, so this legislation will re-instate
those fees and be a source of much needed revenue.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Deaton
to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-22 and seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-23 – Award Electric Franchise to Duke Energy – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-23 for the award of a non-exclusive electric energy franchise for the term of
ten years to Duke Energy. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2015-O-23 a second
reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Franzen to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-23
and seconded by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-24 – Award Gas Franchise to Duke Energy -2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-24 for the award of a non-exclusive gas franchise for the term of ten years
to Duke Energy. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2015-O-24 a second reading.
A motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by Council Member
Franzen to approve Ordinance No. 2015-O-24. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi updated Council on Pelly Road Bridge. He stated that he received
good news from the County that there will be some cost reduction in the
original estimates that could reduce the repair estimate by $50,000 providing
additional savings. The Mayor added that it is hoped to have the engineering
completed and have the bridge re-opened by end of Spring 2016.
Mr. Moriconi stated that a new event has been added to the Christmas Walk this
year. He stated a Santa 5K Fun Run will be held in the afternoon on December
5th prior to the Christmas Walk that begins at 6:00 pm. He stated the Fun Run
will begin at 1:00 pm with the route beginning and ending at the Independence
Fire House. He stated that the pre-registration cost is $25 with each receiving
a Santa hat and t-shirt. Mr. Moriconi advised that all information is on the
City website and on Facebook page. He also announced the Independence Pageant
will be held on Friday (December 4, 2015) night at Simon Kenton High School.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman announced the Independence Fire District will hold a Snowball
Dance on Friday, December 4, 2015.
He reminded everyone that Veteran’s Day is Wednesday and thanked all veterans,
including several vets on the City police force, for their service to our
country. Mayor Reinersman also announced that the American Legion will have
their second annual Independence Ball on Saturday at the Senior Center.
Other Announcements
Council Member Franzen announced that the Simon Kenton High School football
team is undefeated and wished them continued success.
Council Member Yeager announced that the annual Christmas with Blitzen
breakfast being held at the Senior Center on Saturday, December 14th has
already sold out.
Executive Session
At 8:12 p.m. Council Member Franzen made a motion to enter into an executive
session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(b) to discuss the possibility of land
acquisition. The motion was seconded by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried
with all ayes.
At 8:53 p.m. Council Member Franzen moved to reconvene the regular meeting,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Motion carried with all ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Brinker to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:53 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
December 7, 2015
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
7, 2015 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and asked for a moment of silence in lieu of an
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Lucas Deaton and Carol Franzen. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney and City
Attorney Jack Gatlin. Council Members Jim Bushong and Donna Yeager were absent.
Approval of the November 9, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on November 9, 2015. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Brinker. No amendments were noted, roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried with 3 ayes and 1 abstain by Council
Member Aseere.
Discussion and Possible Action Relating to a Stage II Development Plan for a
Daycare at 146 McCullum Road (Hofstetter property)
Mayor Reinersman began the discussion regarding a proposed daycare development
at 146 McCullum Road. Mr. Bill Boggs from the law firm of Wallace Boggs, PLLC
representing the Littlest Angels Daycare addressed council. Mr. Boggs stated
that he has provided the Council the additional information they requested at
last month’s meeting as well as a supplement document which contained color
drawings of the proposed development and a mock-up of a sign for the Center.
Mr. Boggs stated that the documents address the eleven issues the Planning
Commission (PDS) raised as well as a plat, survey and pictures to illustrate
each of the proposed changes.
Mr. Jeff Talkers from the civil engineering firm Land Consultants, representing
the Littlest Angels Daycare addressed council. Mr. Talkers presented to Council
illustrations that showed sidewalk infrastructure and the access easement to
adjacent properties. He stated that they prefer not to have two-way traffic to
and from the adjacent properties and suggested one-way traffic accessibility
from the center. Mr. Talkers mentioned that the sidewalk provides a walkway for
children for school bus pickup. He added that the topography is 40 feet above
KY17 and in his opinion, the parcel is not easily graded to create a large
commercial building and so the building would not be visible from KY17. The
sign would be located on the site where it could be visible from KY17.
Andy Videkovich, Principal Planner of Planning and Development Services (PDS),
addressed Council to explain the eleven conditions that did not meet the
Gateway Mixed Use (GMU) zone requirements from last month’s council meeting.
Mr. Videkovich discussed the 40% transparency issue and stated that according
to the ordinance, the daycare is considered a commercial retail sales and
service use and therefore, the transparency requirement would not apply to this
development. He stated it is the PDS staff opinion that the City Council does
not have the authority to waive the transparency requirement. He stated there
are provisions within the GMU zone that would allow Council to modify the
requirement regarding the boulevard entrance if they chose to do so. Mr.
Videkovich commented that the updates to the lighting plan, increasing the two-
way access drive to twenty two feet wide and having the public amenities of
benches and gazebo were satisfactory of the zoning requirements. He stated that
the plans showed enough space to provide loading and unloading to meet the zone
requirement. He mentioned that the access issue to the adjacent property was
addressed by widening the main access drive to 22 feet but added that Council
could approve 11 feet wide as an option for one-way access. Mr. Videkovich
suggested when this development begins Phase 3 and exceeds 7,000 square feet, a
traffic impact study would be necessary to show what the impact would be at
that time. He also added that additional information would be needed when the
building permit application is submitted. He stated that if the land
disturbance is more than one acre they will need to obtain a land disturbance
permit from SD1. Mr. Videkovich added that there are still unanswered questions
and concerns PDS has with regard to this development and whether or not it even
meets the intent of the GMU zone.
There was some discussion from Council regarding the 40% transparency
requirement of the GMU zone and Mr. Videkovich from PDS explained the 40% only
applies to the front of the building. Council Member Deaton questioned if
Council could recommend that the center be required to conduct the traffic
impact study before they being Phase 3 of the development. Council Member
Franzen expressed some concern that Council should be consistent with the same
conditions that were imposed on the previously approved daycare (Kentucky
Learning Center) in the Courthouse Crossing development, particularly the 40%
transparency requirement of the GMU zone.
City Attorney Jack Gatlin provided a recap of the conditions that Council
discussed as follows:
∙   Transparency pursuant to Staff approval and recommendation.
∙   Lighting Plan pursuant to Staff approval and recommendation.
∙   Traffic Study prior to completion of Phase III or prior to any building or
group of buildings exceeding 7500 square feet. The secondary access road may be
required after the Traffic Study.
∙   Signage per Staff approval and recommendation.
∙   Public amenities as proposed and per Staff approval and recommendation.
∙   Sanitary plan per Staff approval and recommendation.
Mr. Gatlin advised he would draft a Resolution authorizing and approving this
development with the above conditions.
There being no further discussion, a motion was made by Council Member Deaton
with a second by Council Member Brinker to approve the development plan, with
conditions stated, for the Littlest Angels Daycare campus located at 146
McCullum Road. Roll was called and answered with three ayes from Council
members Deaton, Brinker and Aseere and a no vote cast by Council Member
Franzen. Motion carried 3-1.
Ordinance No. 2015-O-25 – Intent to Annex – 2 nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a second reading Ordinance No. 2015-
O-25 proposing the intent to annex three parcels in unincorporated Kenton
County located along Madison Pike and north of Patriot Way. Jack Gatlin read
Ordinance No. 2015-O-25. Mr. Gatlin mentioned the required notices have been
mailed by the City Clerk to the three property owners in the 2.631 acre area.
Mayor Reinersman advised the property would be zoned Neighborhood Commercial
(NC).
Council Member Franzen moved to adopt Ordinance No. 2015-O-25, with a second by
Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
4-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Approving a Zoning Text Amendment Adding a Definition for
Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores and Adding this to the List of
Permitted Uses Within the NC Zone – 1 st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which would approve
adding a text amendment to include automotive parts and accessories stores to
the list of permitted uses as well as the definition within the NC Zone. Mr.
Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he did not have anything to report but requested an executive
session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi mentioned that the Christmas Walk was a great success. He thanked
city staff, police, public works, and city’s business partners for their
teamwork. Mayor Reinersman added that it was a record crowd of estimated 15,000
and thanked city staff and the IBA (Independence Business Association) for the
community effort.
Mayor’s Report – Chris Reinersman
Executive Order No. 2015-EO-14 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2015-EO-14 re-appointing himself to the OKI Board of Directors for 2016.
Executive Session
At 7:59 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by
Council Member Aseere to go into an executive session in accordance with KRS
61.810 (c) to discuss pending litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:32 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by
Council Member Deaton to resume regular meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Brinker to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:33 p.m.
                  __________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
Attest:
_______________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
2016 Minutes
January 4, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
4, 2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Jim Bushong led the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and
Donna Yeager. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk
Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk Gina Gabbard and City Attorney Jack
Gatlin.
Police Department Recognition and Promotions – Wittenberger, Hicks and Richman
Chief Tony Lucas addressed Council and discussed the Explorer program. He
stated the program started in 2007 and there have been several that have
completed the program. CJ Whittenberger was presented an award by Mayor
Reinersman and Chief Lucas which recognized CJ for being the longest serving
member participating in the Explorer Program. Chief Lucas stated that CJ has
volunteered hundreds of hours participating in community events such as 4th of
July, the Christmas Walk, parades, etc. He also stated the Explorers now raise
their own funds to purchase their uniforms through fundraising events such as
working concessions the Bengals Stadium.
Mayor Reinersman and Chief Lucas presented Michael Richman appointment from
Patrolman to Sergeant and Matt Hicks was promoted from Sergeant to Lieutenant.
Approval of the December 7, 2015 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on December 7, 2015. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Brinker. No amendment to the minutes were noted, roll
was called and answered with 4 ayes and Council Members Bushong and Yeager
abstained. Motion carried.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-01 – Zoning Text Amendment Adding a Definition for
Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores and Adding this to the List of
Permitted Uses within the NC Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2016-O-01 to Council for a second
reading which would approve a zoning text amendment to include automotive parts
and accessories stores to the list of permitted uses as well as the definition
within the NC Zone. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2016-O-01 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-01.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried.
Resolution No. 2016-R-01 – SD1 Laterals
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2016-R-01 to Council which would
clarify Sanitation District No. 1’s (SD1) responsibility in regards to lateral
sewer lines on private property. He stated recently, SD1’s position is repairs
to the lateral sewer lines are the responsibility of the property owner. Mayor
Reinersman stated SD1, did at the direction of the three Judge Executives
(Boone, Kenton and Campbell Counties), set aside $600,000 for repairs, but it
is the city’s responsibility for the making repairs to the street after the
sewer lines have been repaired. If cities do not sign the agreement, the
residents/property owners would be responsible for repairs. He stated this
resolution is seeking clarification from SD1 and if passed, would authorize the
Mayor join in the lawsuit on the behalf of Independence residents and let the
court decide who is responsible for the lateral repairs.
Mr. Gatlin explained that SD1’s $600,000 budget was a one-time deal. He added
that $440,000 was previously set aside for exclusively for the City of
Covington before SD1 prior to sending the interlocal agreement to other cities.
He stated the reality is, there was only $160,000 left for the remaining
Northern Kentucky cities. Mr. Gatlin stated the cities that chose not to sign
SD1’s interlocal agreement, SD1 would not service and fix the lateral right-a-
ways in those areas. He stated every City Attorney said it’s illegal and that
cities can’t indemnify SD1 for something such as this. Mr. Gatlin stated the
second issue is cities are required to repair the streets after SD1 repairs the
lateral right-a-ways; and the cost of the street repairs could be more than the
lateral repair. He mentioned the third problem with this proposed agreement
from SD1 is that it is one sided and SD1 could terminate the agreement upon a
thirty day notice. He added it also states the $600,000 budget is for this year
only so it is unknown how this issue will be handled in future years. Mr.
Gatlin stated Erlanger has been dealing with these issues for the past six
months and several cities such as Ft Wright, Park Hills, Cold Spring and
Erlanger have taken formal action to move forward with court action to get a
declaratory judgement. He mentioned there are another five or six cities in
Northern Kentucky that are also in discussions regarding this issue. He stated
cities don’t want to sign this interlocal agreement and feel that clarification
is needed to identify the responsible parties for these lateral lines. Mr.
Gatlin expressed the only way to do this is in the form of a declaratory
judgement to seek guidance from the Kenton Circuit Court. He stated the cities
will take the position that they believe this is SD1’s responsibility and SD1
will take the position that it’s the city’s responsibility and the court will
ultimately decide. He stated the purpose of this resolution is to reach a level
of clarity in Kenton County on who is responsible for the repairs of lateral
right-a-ways. Mr. Gatlin stated by passing this resolution, it is allowing the
Mayor to authorize the law firm to represent the City in seeking a declaratory
judgement from the courts.
Council Member Brinker mentioned he finds it interesting that SD1 determines
their laterals different than electrical providers do their electric lines.
Mayor Reinersman stated he agreed and expressed concern that if this passes,
other utilities could do the same thing. Council Member Franzen stated SD1 is
called Sanitation District for a reason, they maintain sanitation and doesn’t
understand how the lines got blurred. She added it’s almost double dipping for
them, they charge the taxpayer and then the taxes will have to go up because
the city will have to make lateral repairs.
Council Member Deaton asked where the litigation stands as of now. Mr. Gatlin
stated another mayor has suggested each city have their own cap – relative to
their city’s population. Council Member Franzen asked who would be responsible,
as litigation could be a lengthy process. Mayor Reinersman answered, SD1’s
position is it’s the taxpayers’ responsibility; but he hasn’t signed the
interlocal agreement. He stated Erlanger signed the agreement because they had
necessary repairs. He stated Council can discuss this further but if the City
has a problem, we may have to revisit and consider signing the agreement. Mayor
Reinersman stated that Covington has 40-50 sinkholes in their streets, when
sewer lines fail under a street, it eventually collapses and you have residents
that can’t afford $5,000- $15,000 for repair bills for those lateral lines.
Council Member Aseere asked what costs would be associated with the legal
action. Mayor Reinersman stated there is a $3,000 cap for each City joining the
lawsuit. Council Member Aseere also asked if a taxpayer pays for a repair while
litigation is going on, can they come back and be reimbursed from SD1. Mr.
Gatlin stated they are not including the reimbursement idea in the lawsuit but
if the court judgement is in the cities favor and SD1 is determined to be the
responsible party, it could open up separate lawsuits for those cases. Mayor
Reinersman stated he doesn’t see joining this lawsuit as a hostile action
towards SD1, it is just that the cities are looking for clarification on who is
ultimately the responsible party for the repair of the lateral lines. He also
added that it’s not a giant problem currently for Independence but he doesn’t
want to exclude Independence as it could affect the City in the future so being
a part of this process would be in the best interest of the residents. He
stated that if Council agrees to adopt this resolution the City will be a party
to this lawsuit.
There being no further discussion a motion was made by Council Member Aseere to
adopt Resolution No. 2016-R-01 with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Jack Gatlin stated he will circulate a final draft of the declaratory judgement
action to Council but he is trying to keep it low key as possible. He stated it
should be a legislative fix to this issue.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Chris Reinersman
Executive Order No. 2016-EO-01 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2016-EO-01 – Appointment to the Planning and Development Services Council. The
executive order appoints Mayor Reinersman as the primary representative and
Council Member Franzen as the alternate representative to the Planning and
Development Services Council for 2016.
Comprehensive Street Maintenance Report
Mayor Reinersman advised Council they were provided a copy of the Comprehensive
Street Maintenance Report. He stated that the report recommends budgeting $1.2
million per year for street repairs. He stated last year’s budget was $750,000.
He added that franchise fees will bring additional revenue as well as the new
shopping center that is being developed at Madison and Harris Pike. Mayor
Reinersman mentioned the City purchased a crack sealer machine several years
ago and the Public Works Department handles that type of maintenance. The Mayor
stated the City has 182 miles of street and according to the report, we should
be doing 17.7 miles a year of crack sealing.
Presentation of Annual Audit ending June 30, 2015
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the final Annual Audit for the year
ending June 30, 2015. He thanked Finance Director Terri Hudson, City Clerk
Patricia Taney and City Administrator Chris Moriconi for their hard work. He
also stated there were no deficiencies noted on the audit. Mayor Reinersman
requested Council direct any questions or concerns they have regarding the
audit to him or Chris Moriconi.
Miscellaneous Comments
Council Member Franzen mentioned that she received an email requesting the City
put in a turn lane at the intersection of Delaware Crossing and Shaw Road. She
suggested painting turn lanes since cars are sitting in the center lane as
there are no lines painted. Chris Moriconi stated that he would get with Dan
Koch from Public Works to see if the pavement is wide enough to paint lines
and/or turn lanes.
Council Member Aseere brought up the issue of standing water on Bristow Road
due to recent rain. Mayor Reinersman stated it is a State maintained road and
part of the first phase of road improvements to SR536. The Mayor advised he and
Chris Moriconi would be attending the City Nights meeting in Frankfort in a few
weeks and he would use the opportunity to seek funding for the State Route 536
project from State legislators.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:54 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
February 1, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
1, 2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order.
Representatives from the Red Hearts group led the Pledge of Allegiance and
Council Member Jim Bushong led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim
Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk
Gina Gabbard and City Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Proclamation – Congenital Health Defect Awareness Week – February 7th – 14th,
2016
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to recognize and the week of February
7th – 14th, 2016 as Congenital Heart Defect Awareness Week.
Approval of the January 4, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on January 4, 2016. Council Member Yeager so moved, with a second
by Council Member Bushong. No amendment to the minutes were noted, roll was
called and answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2016-R-02 – Supporting the Implementation of a Needle Exchange
Program to be Administered by the Northern Kentucky Independent District Health
Department from the County Health Centers or St Elizabeth Healthcare Hospitals
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2016-R-02 which is a
resolution supporting and urging the implementation of a Needle Exchange
Program to be administered by the Northern Kentucky Health District and St.
Elizabeth Healthcare Hospitals. The Mayor stated the issue of increased heroin
use has been a regular topic of the Kenton County Mayors Group as well as a
main concern of the Northern Kentucky Health Department. The Mayor read
statistics from St. Elizabeth Healthcare regarding overdoses: in 2011 there
were 120, in 2012 there were 225, in 2013 there were 285, in 2014 there were
336 and in 2015 there were 565 overdoses. He stated this program gives addicts
the opportunity to not share needles with others, talk to substance abuse
counselors, get tested for diseases and discuss treatment options.
Dr. Lynne Saddler MD, the District Director of Health from the Northern
Kentucky Health Department, presented information about the Needle Exchange
Program. She stated the Northern Kentucky Health Department’s responsibility is
to prevent disease, promote wellness and protect the public against health
threats within Boone, Campbell, Kenton, and Grant counties and is mandated by
KRS 211.180.
Dr. Saddler explained that the increase in IV drug use (particularly heroin)
has led to a rise in:
∙   Drug overdoses and untimely deaths
∙   Emergency room visits and hospitalizations
∙   Babies born to women with drug addiction
∙   Communicable diseases (such as hepatitis C)
∙   Arrests and incarcerations for drug possession, trafficking and other
criminal activity
∙   Impact on businesses and economic development
She also stated the public health is concerned about IV drug use because:
∙   Sharing needles, syringes, and other drug equipment transmits diseases –
hepatitis C, hepatitis B and HIV
∙   Contaminated needles, syringes, and other drug equipment get discarded in
public places which puts the public and first responders at risk for diseases
from accidental needle sticks.
Dr. Saddler advised of several diseases associated with IV drug use which
include:
∙   Hepatitis C – viral infection of the liver, can cause liver failure and/or
death if untreated.
∙   HIV – chronic disease with a lifetime cost of $600,000 for treatment.
∙   Hepatitis B – viral infection of the liver and can become a lifelong
infection.
∙   In the last five years, Hepatitis B rates are up 65%, Hepatitis C rates are
up 120% and HIV rates have not yet increased significantly.
She added Kentucky’s Heroin Law, SB-192, enables local health departments to
operate a needle exchange program with the approval of the city and county in
which the program would operate. The Northern Kentucky District Health
Department’s Board has approved the program but the cities and counties need to
approve before the program can begin.
Dr. Saddler explained the Needle Exchange Program is a comprehensive public
health program to reduce the spread of communicable diseases like Hepatitis C
and B and HIV in a community. The program exchanges sterile syringes, needles
and clean injection equipment for contaminated equipment and properly disposes
of contaminated equipment. She stated the benefits of the program are to help
reduce the spread of diseases and advance public safety for the public, law
enforcement officials and first responders. She added the programs are cost
effective compared to treating HIV and Hepatitis C and for every dollar spent
on the program, will save $7 with the cost of HIV treatment.
Dr. Saddler clarified common misconceptions and myths of these types of
programs by stating that they do not encourage individuals to start using
drugs, does not increase drug use among existing users and does not increase
crime in neighborhoods in which such a program operates.
Mayor Reinersman thanked Dr. Saddler for her presentation and asked Council if
they had any questions. Council Member Franzen asked what percentage of needle
exchange program participants go into treatment, what is the success rate of
completing treatment and if any data was available to indicate these programs
do not bring additional crime to the areas in which these programs operate. Dr.
Saddler stated there are two studies regarding the likelihood of a participant
going to treatment, one says a participant is five times more likely and the
other study says 25% more likely. She did not have stats on the success rates
of the treatment programs. She stated Baltimore did a study and found there was
no additional crime in surrounding areas to the program operation center and in
fact they found a decrease in crime in surrounding areas.
Council Member Aseere questioned the cost to taxpayers for this programs. Dr.
Saddler said the estimated cost is $385 per participant, per year. She added
the Health Department currently offers the testing services to anyone who walks
through the door of the Health Centers and funding is already in place to cover
the costs of those services.
Council Member Franzen asked if the $250,000 funding from the private
foundation is for one year only or if it will be an annual funding and how the
Health Centers will distribute the needles to participants. Dr. Saddler stated
the private foundation funding is secured for one year. She added there are
initial steps for participants but the actual number of needles given is based
on how many times the participant uses and when they anticipate coming back to
the center. Participants will also receive a sharps container to bring back
their next visit and that’s how the exchange begins one for one. She stated St.
Elizabeth Hospital is picking up the cost of the needle disposal.
Council Member Deaton asked if the grants were a local or state wide grant, and
if the goal of this program is to help users lessen their drug usage and go
into treatment. Dr. Saddler stated the private foundation grant is just for the
NKY Health District and the federal funding goes to the state for distribution
between the different health departments. Dr. Sadder clarified the Health
Department’s area of expertise is stopping the spread of diseases but stressed
the importance of having onsite counselors and partnerships with local
treatment centers. She stated this program is only approved to operate at the
NKY Health Department Health Centers, there is not a Health Center in
Independence and this Resolution is supporting the program at the designated
centers in Northern Kentucky. The Mayor commented a needle exchange operation
center couldn’t be set up in Independence unless Council approved an ordinance
to do so. Council Member Deaton commented it is Council’s responsibility to
help protect the police, first responders and the community. He commended Mayor
Reinersman for bringing this to the table as it shows great leadership.
Chief Lucas addressed Council and expressed his support for adopting the
Resolution citing that it’s a safety issue; it helps protect the police, EMTs,
first responders as well as the general public. He stated last year the police
department would touch a heroin incident once a week and this year it has
become a daily occurrence. He stated two years ago, the Health Department came
to train the police and it was the best two hours of training they ever had.
Chief Lucas stated the police officers wore poke proof gloves and need to ask
victims and suspects if they have anything that could poke them.
Alan Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence – voiced his support of the
needle exchange program. He stated is a good idea for the safety of our troops
but believes there should be specific exchange requirements on how many are
given out against how many are brought in. Dr. Saddler stated the maximum
number would be initially 40 and after 1-2 visits, it should be an even
exchange.
Kevin Napier, 112 Walnut Creek Drive, Independence - a candidate for the House
of Representatives in District 61, voiced his support for the program. He
stated he is the founder of the Kentuckians Against Heroin and has worked with
the Lexington Health Department in implementing their needle exchange program.
He stated he works with the recovery unit and there’s been 12 referrals from
the Lexington Health Department that have successfully completed treatment and
are back into the workforce. In 2015, the Lexington needle exchange program had
199 visits, took in 5,293 and gave out 5,389 which is less than a 100
difference.
Sean Fitzgerald, 2116 Comice Court, Independence - an attorney and candidate
for State Representative in District 64, expressed his concern regarding the
program. He stated he is opposed to the needle exchange because there isn’t a
requirement for all needles to be turned back in. Dr. Saddler stated the
participants are counseled each visit and told to bring back all needles given.
She added the program may not start off one for one but they work towards it.
She also clarified the four NKY Health Centers are in Covington, Newport,
Florence and Williamstown and this resolution is not proposing to open
additional centers. Mr. Fitzgerald stated he found unsuccessful studies of
needle exchange programs in Seattle, San Francisco and Montreal. Dr. Saddler
stated the Seattle’s program was successful with the prevention of increased
HIV rates.
Council Member Aseere questioned who would decide if this program passes. Mayor
Reinersman stated the first step is the Health Department, then Kenton County
has to approve, followed by the cities in which the centers would operate. The
Health Department has already approved it and Kenton County Judge Executive
Knochelmann has said he would not support the program until he knows the cities
are behind it as well. The Mayor added The City of Williamstown has already
passed a resolution showing their support of the program and he hopes by
Independence passing it as well, other cities will begin discussing the need
for a needle exchange program.
Jason Merrick, 1108 Amblewood Court, Independence - the Director of Addiction
Services at the Kenton County Detention Center, voiced his support for the
program. He stated he is a former heroin addict in long term recovery and
stated the program provides a level of empathy and understanding at a human
level. Mr. Merrick shared his story of addition and recovery; he found support
at a needle exchange program, completed treatment, is now a contributor to his
community and getting ready to close on his first home.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence – expressed concern regarding the
needle exchange program bringing in all the needles off the streets and feels
that the police would have the protection they need from the poke proof gloves.
Charlotte Wethington, 13587 Madison Pike, Independence – voiced her support for
the program. She stated this program would give the City a chance to be
proactive instead of reactive and these addicts need and deserve treatment like
anyone else. Mrs. Wethington added the overdose cases at St. Elizabeth Hospital
went from 252 in 2011 up to 1,168 in 2015.
There being no further discussion, City Attorney Jack Gatlin read Resolution
No. 2016-R-02 which would support the implementation of a needle exchange
program to be administered by the Northern Kentucky Independent District Health
Department at the County Health Centers or St. Elizabeth Healthcare Hospitals
in accordance with KRS 218A-500.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2016-R-02.
Council Member Brinker so moved with a second by Council Member Deaton. Roll
was called and answered with 5 ayes and a no vote by Council Member Aseere.
Motion carried 5-1.
Resolution No. 2016-R-03 – Supporting a Kenton County Vacant Properties
Registration
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2016-R-03, which expresses
support for calling on the Kenton County Fiscal Court to adopt a Vacant
Properties Registration Ordinance. The Mayor stated this deals with foreclosed
homes and comes from the County Attorney’s office and Planning and Development
Services (PDS). He added his desire is to send the message to the Fiscal Court
that our City supports this registration program and hopes the County will
support it as well.
Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2016-R-03. A motion was made by Council Member
Yeager to adopt Resolution No. 2016-R-03, with a second by Council Member
Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Rental License Application – 1st Reading (Postponed)
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council for a first reading and ordinance which
supports a Rental License Application for rental properties within the City. He
stated this ordinance is in the very early stages and would like each Council
Member to carefully review this draft before the final reading. He stated a
registry of rental properties with the owner’s information would be helpful
when dealing with code enforcement problems.
Council Member Bushong made a motion to table the proposed ordinance regarding
the Rental License Application process, seconded by Council Member Deaton. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property – 2005 Ford F550XL Dump Truck
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a 2005 Ford F550XL Dump Truck which needs
to be declared surplus property. He stated the truck will be sold either
through the Kenton County auction or auctioned online at govdeals.com.
Council Member Bushong made a motion to declare the 2005 Ford F550XL Dump Truck
as surplus property, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property – Police Department Items
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council an inventory list of broken and outdated
computers, monitors, docking stations, batteries, cruiser seats, tables and car
benches to which need to be declared surplus property for the purpose of
recycling and/or destruction.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve the list of items as surplus
property, seconded by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated the litigation against Sanitation District 1 (SD1) has not
yet been filed as cities are still jumping onboard. He added the following
cities have passed resolutions to join in the lateral lines lawsuit: Ft.
Mitchell, Independence, Erlanger, Crescent Springs, Ft. Wright, Park Hills,
Silver Grove, Cold Spring and several other cities will be joining in the next
couple of weeks. Mr. Gatlin added the attorneys representing the cities will be
meeting with the SD1 Board and are hopeful of going re-instating SD1’s original
policy of repairing and paying for the lateral line breaks.
City Administrator Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the City is working on a grant for an access road and
parking lot off Peach Drive for new basketball courts going in behind the
Municipal Center building. The deadline for the grant is April 30th. He stated
he probably won’t know if the City will be granted the funds until October or
November but will keep Council posted.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman congratulated the Independence Fire District for their
significant accomplishment of having their Insurance Services Office (ISO)
rating upgraded from a 4 to a 3. He also gave credit to the NKY Water District
and Kenton County Dispatch for their efforts. The Mayor reminded everyone about
the City’s Facebook page and mentioned that Dollar Tree and Kroger Fuel Center
both opened this week. He stated the Dollar Tree Facebook post on Thursday had
over 16,500 views and the Kroger Fuel Center Facebook post had over 25,000
views prior to the Council Meeting. He encouraged everyone to like the City
Facebook page to stay informed of City events.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Bushong
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 9:11 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
March 7, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 7,
2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Jim Bushong led the invocation. The
Mayor welcomed Boy Scout Troop 71 and mentioned several of the scouts are
working on their citizenship badge. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas
Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was City Administrator
Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk Gina Gabbard
and City Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the February 1, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on February 1, 2016. Council Member Aseere so moved, with a second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendment to the minutes were noted, roll was
called and answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2016-R-04 – Land and Water Conservation Fund, 2016 Grant
Application
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2016-R-04 which supports
the proposed grant application for the 2016 Land and Water Conservation Fund.
Mr. Gatlin read the Resolution and stated if the $75,000 grant is awarded to
the city, it would be used for the basketball court project behind the
Municipal Center. Chris Moriconi stated the awarded grant money would be used
to pave the parking lot and access road for the basketball courts and the city
would take care of the courts, hoops, painting and fencing. He stated the grant
application deadline is April 30th and it may be fall before we hear anything.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2016-R-04,
seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property – 2008 Ford Taurus
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a 2008 Ford Taurus which needs to be
declared surplus property. Mr. Moriconi stated the Taurus needs a new
transmission and will be auctioned on govdeals.com.
Council Member Bushong made a motion to declare the 2008 Ford Taurus as surplus
property, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Executive Session  
At 7:09 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by
Council Member Brinker to go into executive session in accordance with K.R.S.
61.810 (b) and K.R.S. 61.810 (c) to deliberate acquisition of real estate and
discuss pending litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 8:02 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and seconded by Council
Member Franzen to resume the regular meeting. Motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2016-R-05 – Regarding Health Department RFP
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2016-R-05 to Council which is a
resolution that would authorize and approve the Mayor to negotiate financial
incentives to the Northern Kentucky Health District for the location of its
principal offices in Independence at the intersection of Turkeyfoot Road and
Industrial Road. The Mayor stated the Northern Kentucky Health District has
been looking at properties to build their new administrative offices and have
narrowed it down to Florence and Independence. He stated the incentives
included in Independence’s offer is a $100,000 discount off the purchase price
of the property as well as exterior maintenance services including grass
cutting and snow removal for up to 20 years. He stated this would be an
opportunity to stir significant economic development on the west side of the
city. He added this new office building would bring 80 employees with a $4
million plus payroll and would generate $50,000 in payroll taxes per year for
the city. The Mayor stated the City would recoup the $100,000 incentive money
back in a little over 2 years and after the property maintenance costs, the
City would still bring in $43,000 a year in payroll taxes from this site. He
added that Florence’s proposal included a higher purchase price for the land as
well as a property maintenance costs to the Health Department of $1600 a month.
The Mayor stated the Independence site at Turkeyfoot Road and Industrial Road
has been sitting empty for 12 years and an office building would help generate
interest for additional development in that area.
Council Member Franzen stated the more businesses that locate in Independence
will generate more payroll tax for the city which would result in lower real
estate tax costs for residents. Council Member Aseere stated he supports this
proposal because the City will break even in less than 5 years, Independence is
offering a lower purchase price over Florence, the payroll tax percentage is
cheaper in Independence versus Florence and Independence is also close to the
highway.
Council Member Deaton stated that while incentives can be hard to digest, he
thinks it makes sense for the Northern Kentucky Health District to keep their
office in Kenton County, which is centrally located within the district.
The Mayor stated he thinks the City has a great site and hopes the Northern
Kentucky Health District Board recognizes that when they meet to decide. He
added the incentives he proposed were needed to keep Independence in the
running as an option for the Northern Kentucky Health Department’s new site.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2016-R-05,
seconded by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered 5 ayes and 1 no
vote by Council Member Bushong. Motion carried 5-1.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated the sewer lateral line litigation against the Sanitation
District No. 1 (SD1) has not yet been filed because cities are still joining
the lawsuit. He added, that having more cities involved, would help resolve the
issue without having to file suit. He stated there are currently 12 cities that
have passed resolutions to support a declaratory judgement that SD1 should be
responsible for all lateral line repairs within the right-a-way. Mr. Gatlin
added that progress was made when multiple city officials and SD1
representatives met to discuss this issue. He stated the interlocal agreement
is being redrafted and will take away some of the issues and SD1 appears to be
accepting responsibility for lateral line repairs.
City Administrator Report – Christian J. Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Executive Order No. 2016-EO-03 - Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No.
2016-EO-03 appointing Lisa Long to the Independence Senior Board.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2016-EO-03,
seconded by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
In other business, regarding the Needle Exchange Program, Mayor Reinersman
stated the city’s recommendation for the Program discussed at last month’s
Council meeting would have to be administered at one of the Northern Kentucky
Health Department clinics. He stated if the Northern Kentucky Health Department
decides on Independence for their new administrative offices, it wouldn’t mean
a Needle Exchange Program would operate at that location. He clarified that by
statute, City Council would have to pass an ordinance approving the addition of
a clinic before anything like that could happen at that location.
Council Member Brinker stated the Easter Egg Hunt will be on March 19th at noon
in Memorial Park and is for ages 9 and under. He added there will be prizes and
at least 7,000 eggs.
Council Member Franzen thanked the Public Works Department for painting lines
on Declaration Drive at the intersection of Shaw Road as she suggested at the
previous Council Meeting.
Council Member Deaton asked if Council was still interested in pursuing the
Rental License Application Registration that was discussed at the last month’s
Council Meeting. Mayor Reinersman stated it had been tabled indefinitely but
welcomed help from Council if they are interested in pursuing the program.
Council Member Deaton stated he will look into it.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:22 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
April 4, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 4,
2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Jim Bushong led the invocation. Roll
was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere,
Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Clerk Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk Gina Gabbard and
City Attorney Jack Gatlin. City Administrator Chris Moriconi was absent due to
a training conference he was attending out of town.
Approval of the March 7, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on March 7, 2016. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second
by Council Member Franzen. No amendment to the minutes were noted, roll was
called and answered with all ayes. Motion carried 6-0.
Proclamation – Recognize Sophie Skinner
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to Sophie Skinner to recognize her
outstanding swimming accomplishments including four Olympic Trial qualifying
cuts and setting two State records. Sophie is also an honor roll student at
Notre Dame Academy. Council Member Franzen spoke a few words as one of Sophie’s
previous swim coaches.
Proclamation – National Child Abuse Prevention Month - April 2016
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to recognize the month of April 2016
as Child Abuse Prevention Month. The Mayor thanked the City Clerk and City
staff for displaying the blue ribbons on the trees outside the Municipal Center
and encouraged citizens to do the same.
Award Bid – Holton Drive Reconstruction
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the four bids that were received for the
Holton Drive reconstruction project. The Mayor stated this road project within
the Industrial Park is critical and he realizes it’s a lot of money to spend on
one road. He stated in 2015, Holton Drive generated over $500,000 of revenue
for the City in occupational taxes, real estate taxes and tangible taxes which
equates to about 7% of the City’s general fund revenue. The Mayor stated Len
Riegler Blacktop presented the lowest bid amount of $733,695.75 which includes
removing the concrete road and replacing with asphalt pavement. There were some
questions from Council regarding the differences between concrete and asphalt.
The Mayor stated asphalt is a better option for this project due to the amount
of traffic and is less costly to replace than concrete. He stated the road
project should start in July and be completed by the first of November.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to accept the bid from Len Riegler
Blacktop in the amount of $733,695.75 for the Holton Drive reconstruction
project, seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Memorandum of Understanding with Kenton County for Pelly Road Bridge
Reconstruction Project
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the Memorandum of Understanding between
Kenton County and the City for combined efforts to complete the Pelly Road
Bridge reconstruction project. The Mayor stated Kenton County will provide and
assist with in-kind services for the Pelly Road Bridge reconstruction project
if the City agrees to be fully responsible for the anticipated expenditures. He
stated the estimated cost of construction is $225,175.50 which would be the
City's responsibility. He added Kenton County will be covering the cost of in-
kind assistance which is estimated at $125,000.00 and the Kenton County’s
Public Works Department will be doing most of the work. The Mayor stated the
City’s portion of the project will be funded with the $100,000 received from
the State Road Aid as well as funds in the Fowler Creek Sewer Fund. He stated
the project would include installing a giant culvert pipe which is
approximately 38 feet in diameter. The Mayor stated the goal is to have the
Pelly Road bridge re-opened before school starts back up in August. He added
this option should be completed by the August 5th deadline and would provide a
long term fix to the bridge.
Council Member Aseere made a motion to approve the Memorandum of Understanding
with Kenton County for the Pelly Road Bridge reconstruction project, seconded
by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property – 2007 Dodge Chargers
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a blue 2007 Dodge Charger and a black and
white 2007 Dodge Charger which need to be declared surplus property. The Mayor
stated the vehicles will be auctioned on govdeals.com.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to declare two 2007 Dodge Chargers as
surplus property, seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated there has been recent positive negotiations with the
Sanitation District No. 1 (SD1) in regards to SD1’s responsibility for lateral
line breaks along public right of ways. He stated he is reasonably confident
that he will have something to present to Council at the next meeting.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi was not present to a report.
Mayor’s Report – Chris Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated he had an update regarding the placement of the new
administrative offices for the Northern Kentucky Health Department as discussed
at the last City Council meeting. He stated the Health Department’s Board of
Directors decided on the Florence site over the Independence site for their new
administrative offices. The Independence site that was being considered is
located at the intersection of Turkeyfoot Road and Industrial Road.
Mayor Reinersman stated the Kelly Miller Circus will be coming to Independence
on May 13th and 14th to perform four shows. He added tickets are available for
purchase at the City Building, Ace Hardware and the Independence and Taylor
Mill Remke locations.
Miscellaneous Comments
Council Member Brinker stated the Easter Egg Hunt went well on March 19th even
though it was moved indoors and the parent’s patience was appreciated. He
stated improvements will be made to Sterling Staggs ball field #2 within the
next month to help with the drainage issues.
Mike Robbins, 778 Jimae Avenue, Independence - voiced his concerns for the
proposed zone change for new homes being built in the Lakefield subdivision.
The proposed change would reduce the spacing requirements between new homes
being built. The land is currently zoned R1C and would change to zone R1D. Mr.
Robbins stated he has seen his property value decrease over the years for
various reasons and believes this change would decrease the value of properties
in his neighborhood even more.
Mayor Reinersman stated Celestial Homes is the builder that owns the land and
has requested the zone change. He stated this new development would be accessed
mainly through the Lakefield subdivision which is zoned R1D. He added PDS Staff
has recommended approval for the proposed zone change and a public hearing will
be held by the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) later this week. He
stated KCPC will make a recommendation to the City for Council to discuss and
could be on the agenda for discussion in possibly May or June.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:54 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
May 2, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 2,
2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence. Roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Lucas Deaton,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Jim Bushong was absent. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney, Assistant City Clerk
Gina Gabbard and City Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the April 4, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes of the regular
meeting held on April 4, 2016. Council Member Yeager so moved, with a second by
Council Member Franzen. No amendment to the minutes were noted, roll was called
and answered with all ayes. Motion carried 5-0.
Proclamation – Building Safety Month
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to recognize the month of May 2016 as
Building Safety Month.
Proposed Ordinance – Zoning Map Amendment – 45 Acres located on the NE corner
of the Intersection of Cox Road with Fowler Creek Road – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance to approve a zoning
map amendment to change the zone of 45 acres located at the NE corner of the
intersection of Cox Road and Fowler Creek Road from R-1C zone to R-1D. The
Mayor stated the Bridges family owns the property and are planning to develop
the land. He stated the current zone of R-1C allows homes to be built on 80
foot lots. He stated Greg Bridges is requesting a zone change to R-1D which is
a higher density zone and the change would decrease the minimum lot size from
12,500 square feet to 9,000 square feet. The Mayor stated by changing the zone
to R-1D, approximately 80 homes could be built instead of 70. He stated Mr.
Bridges is working with the City in regards to possible building conditions,
along with the approved zone change. The Mayor stated Mr. Bridges has agreed to
provide at least 80% of the homes in the development with a minimum of 25%
brick and/or stone on the front elevation. The Mayor stated he drove through
the Lakefield subdivision and calculated about 22% of existing homes have brick
on the front elevation.
The Mayor stated there are concerns regarding the streets being torn up during
construction and the idea of adding an alternate entrance has been discussed.
He stated Mr. Bridges has agreed to put in a temporary alternate entrance if he
can do so for less than $10,000.
Mr. Gatlin stated the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) had the
statutory public hearing regarding this proposed zone change on April 7, 2016
and KCPC has recommended approval of the zone change with the condition that
the development density doesn’t exceed four housing units per net acre. He
stated Council’s options at this meeting are to either vote to agree/approve
with KCPC’s recommendation as is, impose additional conditions on the KCPC
recommendation, or to vote to overturn KCPC’s recommendation but approve with
conditions; each option must have at least four votes. He advised if there
isn’t a vote of at least four out of five to take action, then KCPC’s
recommendation would move forward 90 days from the date of the KCPC public
hearing (April 7, 2016) with approval for zone change with only the density
condition.
The Mayor stated twelve residents have signed in to address Council on this
proposed zone change.
Norman Davidson, 779 Jimae Avenue, Independence - voiced his concerns regarding
the plans for the new development. He urged Council could speak to Mr. Bridges
again to ask him to consider using the land as a nature center instead of
another residential development.
The Mayor stated this was discussed and Mr. Bridges stated he may donate a
portion of the land between Cox Rd and Jimae Avenue to The Kenton Conservancy.
Mike Robbins, 778 Jimae Avenue, Independence – expressed his concern regarding
the increased traffic this development would bring for families living in the
Lakefield Subdivision. He suggested the City delay action on this map amendment
and request the State permit a second entrance off Fowler Creek Road.
The Mayor stated Council has ninety days to act or KCPC’s recommendation
becomes formal approval.
Al Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence - voiced his concerns regarding
the public safety issue that would occur with this zone change. He stated homes
being so close together without a brick wrap increase exposure risks and a fire
could spread easier than if homes were farther apart. He stated the single
entrance also creates a traffic safety issue
Pam Burton, 6415 Lakearbor, Independence – voiced her concerns regarding the
additional traffic and lack of having an additional ingress/egress. She thanked
the Mayor for joining the neighborhood discussion on Facebook about this issue,
and for driving around the neighborhood counting houses, as well as trying to
help the Lakefield community in this situation. Ms. Burton stated her
disappointment that Mr. Bridges was not present to hear residents’ concerns.
She stated the construction traffic and additional vehicle traffic the new
homes will bring present safety concerns for the animals and children. Ms.
Burton stated Waterview is being torn up and there has been mud and rock debris
on the roads.
The Mayor advised the street damage is being monitored by the Public Works
Director. He stated Lakefield Subdivision is scheduled for street resurfacing
this summer. He stated the existing conditions will be addressed and will be
the builder’s responsibility to clean up the streets during and after
construction. The Mayor stated builders can be fined and/or denied permits if
existing street conditions aren’t maintained.
Wayne Erpenbeck from Erpenbeck Consulting Engineers handed out an updated plan
of the proposed development of The Woods of Lakefield as the proposed R-1D
zone. Erpenbeck Consulting Engineers have partnered with Greg Bridges of
Celestial Homes on the development plan for The Woods of Lakefield. Mr.
Erpenbeck stated by changing this zone to R-1D, the lots will be deeper and
less trees will be cut down. He stated per the plans, there will only be two
dwelling units per acre, which is below the KCPC’s recommendation of four units
per acre.
Kathleen Daley, 842 Ridgepoint Drive, Independence – voiced her support of the
zone change after hearing Council’s comments and conditions that Council added.
Dusty Poe, 875 Ridgepoint Drive, Independence – questioned if these new homes
would cause the Fowler Creek Sewer system to be re-assessed.
The Mayor stated the last payment of the Fowler Creek Sewer loan has been paid
and there will be no additional assessments payments by the residents.
Donald Barnett, 788 Jimae Avenue, Independence – voiced his concern regarding
the street damage during construction. He stated there have been twenty-five
trucks with fill dirt, going up and down Jimae daily for this new development.
Mr. Barnett presented pictures to Council showing current damage to Jimae.
Mr. Moriconi stated the Public Works Director Dan Koch and Mr. Bridges will be
reviewing and discussing the damage caused by the construction and it will be
repaired.
Gregory Bridges, Owner of Celestial Homes addressed questions by Council. He
stated the homes will range in size from 1100 to 1800 square feet and sale
prices will range from $130,000 to $173,000. Mr. Bridges stated the zone change
will allow for larger homes on a smaller lot for the same price of smaller
homes on a larger lot. He stated the homes will be on-site, stick build homes
and will include both market homes as well as contracts to build on vacant
lots. He stated the R-1D zone will allow less homes built per acre than KCPC’s
recommendations. Mr. Bridges stated an alternate entrance idea has been
explored but the State did not want another street coming through on Cox Road
citing inadequate site distance to add an entrance on Fowler Creek Road. He
stated there are plans to provide a temporary access for construction vehicles
at the bottom of Cox Road.
Andy Videkovich, Planning Manager for Planning and Development Services
addressed Council by stating the development plan that was submitted shows
approximately two dwelling units per acre and the KCPC’s recommendation was
four or less units per acre. He stated a development plan is not required nor
can be bound with the current zone which is R1-C. Mr. Videkovich stated both
Lakefield Drive and Lakearbor Drive were built to the sub-collector standard
which means they can handle traffic for up to 500 lots without having a second
entrance. He stated there are currently about 400 dwelling units, so it can
handle the additional 70 to 80 lots Mr. Bridges is planning to build.
Mr. Gatlin stated that in order for Council to move forward with accepting
KCPC’s recommendation and additional conditions, a motion would need to be made
and have at least 4 favorable votes to result in a first reading. He stated
Council’s motion would be to accept KCPC’s recommendation to approve the zone
change including the condition of four units or less per net acre. Mr. Gatlin
stated two additional conditions expressed by Council were 1) to have at least
80% of home fronts contain a minimum of 25% brick and/or stone during any point
during construction and 2) to construct an alternate entrance from either
Fowler Creek Road or Cox Road during the initial development phase as
allowable, which would facilitate construction traffic for any vehicles heavier
than a concrete truck; if the cost of the alternate entrance exceeds $10,000,
the City can waive the requirement or opt to cover the cost difference.
Mayor Reinersman asked Council for a motion to accept KCPC’s recommendation to
approve the zone change including the condition of 4 units or less per net acre
as well as the two additional conditions stated by Mr. Gatlin. Council Member
Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance to Council, which accepts
KCPC’s recommendation to amend the zoning map for the 45 acres located at the
northeast intersection of Cox Road and Fowler Creek Road in Independence from
R-1C zone to R-1D zone with three conditions pertaining to density, brick/stone
on house fronts and a temporary alternate construction entrance. Mr. Gatlin
gave the ordinance a first reading which included the three conditions of
approval by the Council.
Award Bid – Pelly Road Bridge
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the bid received for the culvert pipe for
the Pelly Road Bridge replacement. He stated the sole bidder was Contech
Engineered Solutions with a bid of $50,275 which was $25,425 less than the
engineers estimate. The Mayor stated the environmental report has been sub-
contracted out which has caused a delay in the process but should be received
in the next few weeks. The Mayor stated he’s hopeful the bridge project will be
complete and opened in time for the new school year. He stated the savings from
the pipe will allow for the addition of pre-cast stone retaining walls which
will be more time efficient and nicer looking.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to approve the bid from Contech Engineered
Solutions in the amount of $50,275 for the culvert pipe for the Pelly Road
Bridge replacement, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Award Bid – Lawn and Park Maintenance Contract
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the five bids received for the lawn and
park maintenance. Mr. Moriconi stated he recommends continuing service with
Malco Services since we there has been a good history with Malco, the owner is
a resident of the city and we know the excellent service he provides.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve the bid from Malco Services for
lawn and park maintenance, seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Award Bid – Memorial Park Grading Improvements
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the bids for grading Memorial Park to
make way for the planned basketball courts behind the Municipal Center. He
stated a grant application has been submitted for the installation of the
basketball courts. He stated Eaton Asphalt submitted the lowest bid of $86,040.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to approve the bid from Eaton Asphalt in
the amount of $86,040 for the grading of Memorial Park, seconded by Council
Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2016-R-07 - Rumpke Contract Renewal for Curbside Trash and
Recycling Pickup
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2016-R-07 which is a
resolution authorizing and approving the Mayor to execute an extension of the
previously bid fees for trash and recycling services for residential units in
the City. The Mayor thanked Mr. Moriconi, Ms. Taney and Attorney Brandon Volker
for their hard work on this contract which resulted in additional services from
Rumpke while keeping a good price.
Mr. Moriconi stated the two year extension is being utilized and addendums have
been added to the Rumpke contract which includes delaying pick up times until
after 8:30 a.m. on the main roads of Madison Pike, Turkeyfoot Road and
Independence Station Road, and continued service on vacant and delinquent
properties. He stated Rumpke will continue to pick up trash and collect
payments from property owners. He stated each year around June 30th, Rumpke
will send the City a delinquent list of accounts and the delinquent amounts
will be added to those property owners’ tax bills. Mr. Moriconi stated another
addition to Rumpke services will be during the week of Christmas; residents can
set out any trash next to the container and all of it will be picked up.
Council Member Deaton stated he would request more consistent billing from
Rumpke as his invoice comes at random times and doesn’t include a due date. Mr.
Moriconi stated he would follow up with Council Member Deaton regarding the
billing issue.
Mayor Reinersman asked Council for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2016-R-07
which authorizes and approves the contract extension for trash and recycling
services with Rumpke. Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council
Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Relating to Mandatory Trash Pick Up – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which amends the
City’s code of ordinances regarding mandatory trash collection. The Mayor
stated this ordinance updates the text regarding some of the new changes that
have been added to the Rumpke contract including collection fee language. Mr.
Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Amended Budget for 2015-2016 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which amends
Ordinance No. 2015-O-12 and the annual budget for the Fiscal Year beginning
July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2016-2017 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the proposed ordinance which adopts the
annual budget for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending June 30,
2017. In his budget address Mayor Reinersman stated the primary focus is
funding infrastructure while continuing to maintain other services. He stated
two major infrastructure projects in this budget include the replacement of
Holton Drive and the Pelly Road Bridge. Mayor Reinersman stated the recently
updated street inventory report concluded the City needs to invest over a
million dollars per year to maintain City streets. He stated street repairs
will be a priority and one million dollars will be invested to maintain and
replace roads within the City. He stated this budget allows the City to move
forward while minimizing the impact on the residents and keeping fund reserves
at a safe level. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Yeager questioned if the grant for the basketball courts isn’t
received, if there was money in the 2016-2017 budget to still install the
basketball courts. Mayor Reinersman stated no money has been budgeted for the
basketball courts due to large road repairs budget but if the City is awarded
the grant then funds will be allocated later in the year.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Employee Pay and Classification Plan – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the proposed ordinance which adopts the
City employee pay and classification plan. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2016-R-06 – Authorizing a Zoning Text Application Relating to
outdoor storage/sales, conditional uses for outdoor sales/services and/or
requirements that outdoor sales/services can be an accessory use to the
business located within an enclosed structure in the DI and GMU Zones
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2016-R-06 which sponsors
an application for a zoning text amendment to the DI and GMU zones relating to
outdoor storage/sales, conditional uses for outdoor sales/service and/or
requirements that outdoor sales/services be an accessory use to the business
located within enclosed structures.
Mr. Moriconi stated the application will be forwarded to the KCPC and would be
included in their June hearing and the recommendation will come back to Council
for consideration and action in July.
Council Member Deaton asked what prompted this zoning text change. Mayor
Reinersman stated there have been complaints regarding outdoor storage issues
in the DI and GMU zones. He stated there wasn’t anything mentioned in the
current zoning text ordinance regarding outdoor storage in these zones so this
would clear up the zone ordinance specifications.
Mayor Reinersman requested a motion from Council to approve Resolution No.
2016-R-06 to sponsor a proposed text amendment application regarding outdoor
storage in the DI and GMU zones. Council Member Deaton so moved, seconded by
Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated his one year anniversary of being the City Attorney is coming
up and he’s enjoyed his time so far. He stated the City staff is amazing to
work with.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi announced the Kelly Miller Circus is coming to town on May 13th
and 14th. He stated the show times are Friday, May 13th at 4:30 p.m. and 7:30
p.m. and Saturday, May 14th at 2:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m.
He complimented Council Member Yeager and Parks and Recreations Director Nita
Brake for their fundraising efforts for the Fourth of July Celebration and
advised that $26,000 has been raised so far.
Mayor’s Report – Chris Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman advised that after a long process, the nomination application
has been submitted to the National Heritage Council for the City’s downtown
area to be designated as a Historical District. He stated on May 3rd at 6:30
p.m., the Kentucky Heritage Council will be hosting a public information
session in the Council Chambers to discuss what it means to be a Historical
District. He extended an invitation to interested residents to attend. He
stated the benefits of having a Historical District are: it draws attention for
future businesses, creates incentives for rehab, it allows for commercial
properties and federal and state tax credits. The Mayor stated the Kentucky
Preservation Review Board will decide on May 20, 2016 in Frankfort whether or
not to designate downtown Independence as a Historical District.
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation to generous local businesses that
collectively donated 100 tickets for the upcoming Kelly Miller Circus
performances. He stated the donated tickets have been distributed to schools
and day care centers within the City. The Mayor also expressed his thanks to
the Deters Company for permitting the City to use the vacant lot in the
Independence Towne Center for the circus set up again this year.
Mayor Reinersman offered his congratulations to Class 18 of the Citizens’
Police Academy that graduated on April 26, 2016. He stated the next class will
be in the spring of 2017 and encouraged interested citizens to submit their
applications. The Mayor thanked Chief Lucas, Sergeant Boyle, Officer Bridges,
Mrs. Weger and Mrs. Runge as well as the entire police department for their
hard work with this program.
Mr. Moriconi and Mayor Reinersman recognized Finance Director Terri Hudson for
her hard work on the budgets.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:53 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
June 6, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 6,
2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney,
Assistant City Clerk Gina Gabbard and City Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Kenton County Judge Executive Kris Knochelmann
Judge Executive Kris Knochelmann addressed Council with updates regarding the
Digital Radio Project occurring within Kenton County. He stated in February of
2015, Trott’s Public Safety Radio System Analysis and Recommendations Report
evaluated the Kenton County dispatch systems, which is several decades old.
Judge Knochelmann stated himself and the judges in Campbell, Boone and Grant
counties have agreed to spend approximately five million dollars to update the
technology for first responders within the community.
Kenton County Administrator Joe Schreiber addressed Council and stated the
analysis performed on the current dispatch systems identified that 7 out of the
9 major infrastructure components would be unsupported or obsolete by 2018. He
stated the research showed the current Analog system could be updated for
approximately five million dollars. Mr. Schreiber stated the second option is
to upgrade to the digital 800Mhz system for an additional six hundred and
thirty seven thousand dollars. He stated the benefits of the digital system are
worth the additional cost. He stated the formulation and building of the new
infrastructure will begin in August of 2016, radio bids will be awarded around
April 2017 and the projected go-live date for the new digital system is
estimated for mid 2018.
Police Business – New Officers and Explorers Competition Recognition
Mayor Reinersman swore in new Police Recruits Ben Bridges and Michael Haught.
Chief Lucas recognized the Explorers for their participation in the Southwest
Ohio Regional Explorers Competition in May 2016. He stated the Independence
Explorers competed against 19 other teams and placed 5th overall. He added
Sergeant Tyler Runge placed first in the driving obstacle course individual
competition. Chief Lucas expressed his thanks to each of the Explorers and to
the Officers that have trained them. Mayor Reinersman also thanked the
Explorers for their time and effort.
Mayor Reinersman presented Chief Lucas with a plaque in celebration of his 25
years of service with the Independence Police Department. Chief Lucas thanked
the Mayor and said a few words.
Approval of the May 2, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman stated a couple corrections to the minutes for the regular
meeting held on May 2, 2016; changes were noted. The Mayor called for a motion
to approve the minutes as amended for the regular meeting held on May 2, 2016.
Council Member Brinker so moved, with a second by Council Member Yeager. Roll
was called and answered with 5 ayes and 1 abstention from Council Member
Bushong. Motion carried.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-02 – Zoning Map Amendment – 45 Acres located on the NE
corner of the Intersection of Cox Road with Fowler Creek Road – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2016-O-02 which accepts
KCPC’s recommendation to amend the zoning map for the 45 acres located at the
northeast intersection of Cox Road and Fowler Creek Road in Independence from
R-1C zone to R-1D zone with three conditions pertaining to density, brick/stone
on house fronts and a temporary alternate construction entrance. Mr. Gatlin
gave the ordinance a second reading which included KCPC’s recommendation of
changing the zone to R-1C with the condition of four units or less per net
acre. Mr. Gatlin stated two additional conditions expressed by Council 1) to
have at least 80% of home fronts contain a minimum of 25% brick and/or stone
during any point during construction and 2) to construct an alternate entrance
from Fowler Creek Road during the initial development phase as allowable, which
would facilitate construction traffic for vehicles heavier than a concrete
truck; if the cost of the alternate entrance exceeds $10,000, the City can
waive the requirement or opt to cover the cost difference.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-02,
seconded by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-03 – Adopting an Amended Budget for 2015-2016 – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2016-O-03 which amends
Ordinance No. 2015-O-12 and the annual budget for the Fiscal Year beginning
July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2016. Mr. Gatlin gave the ordinance a second
reading.
Mayor Reinersman asked for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-03. Council
Member Bushong so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-04 – Adopting 2016-2017 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2016-O-04 which adopts the
annual budget for the Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending June 30,
2017. Mr. Gatlin gave the ordinance a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman asked for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-04. Council
Member Yeager so moved with a second by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-05 – Adopting the Employee Pay and Classification Plan –
2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2016-O-05 which adopts the
City employee pay and classification plan. Mr. Gatlin gave the ordinance a
second reading.
Mayor Reinersman asked for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-05. Council
Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Bushong. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-06 – Relating to Mandatory Trash Pick Up – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2016-O-06 which amends the
City’s code of ordinances regarding mandatory trash collection for residential
units within the City, including fees and penalties for non-payment. Mr. Gatlin
gave the ordinance a second reading.
Council Member Franzen asked for clarification for the changes in the Rumpke
contract regarding continuous trash pick-up for delinquent property owners.
Mayor Reinersman stated the new extension in the Rumpke contract includes
continuous trash pickup regardless if account is delinquent and the delinquent
properties will have a lien placed on them until balance is paid.
Council Member Aseere stated the price is crossed out of this ordinance. Mayor
Reinersman stated this ordinance will be ongoing and will now state to see the
current contract for pricing. Chris Moriconi stated the contract changes are
included in a two year extension with Rumpke and there is one more extension
available in the current contract.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-06 which
amends the City’s code of ordinances regarding mandatory trash collection,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property – 2003 Chevrolet Impala
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a 2003 Chevrolet Impala which needs to be
declared surplus property. The Mayor stated the vehicle will be auctioned on
govdeals.com.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to declare the 2003 Chevrolet Impala as
surplus property, seconded by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2004-O-07 - Relating to Residential
Speed Humps – 1st Reading (TABLED)
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance to amend Ordinance
No. 2004-O-07 which relates to residential speed humps. He stated a couple of
loopholes have been discovered with Ordinance No. 2004-O-07 and it doesn’t
cover all scenarios. Mayor Reinersman stated that himself, Mr. Moriconi, Public
Works Director Dan Koch, Attorney Jack Gatlin and several residents met to
discuss the current speed hump process and came up with the proposed amendment
to address the loopholes. He stated there were several residents that signed in
to address Council in regards to this amendment.
Jonicka Baker, 10291 Meadow Glen Drive, Independence – voiced her concerns
regarding cars speeding up and down Meadow Glen Drive. She stated a speed
survey conducted last summer on Meadow Glen Drive tracked the fastest speed of
49 mph within the 20 mph zone. She stated the vote failed last year to add
speed humps on Meadow Glen Drive and is concerned because new homes are still
being built and traffic will continue to increase. Mrs. Baker stated the police
reports she requested from the May patrol observations report only 3 citations
for speeding were issued to residents.
Chief Lucas advised Council that target enforcement was performed on Meadow
Glen after the meeting with the concerned residents regarding the speeding
issue. He stated 8 or 9 citations were written during the four day period as
well as several warnings. Chief Lucas stated the officers were told to use
their discretion on issuing citations.
Mayor Reinersman stated he stands behind Chief Lucas’ approach of community
policing and giving warnings to residents prior to issuing tickets.
Terry Hall Jr., 10311 Meadow Glen Drive, Independence – expressed his concern
for the speeding cars and reckless driving on Meadow Glen Drive and is fearful
for safety of the children. He stated his concern regarding the minimum
requirement of 75% mailed ballots have to be returned and feels the ballot
cards can be easily thrown away.
Council Member Deaton stated there are other streets in the city that have the
same issue and amending this ordinance can help improve the process of having
speed bumps approved by the residents. He suggested the concerned residents go
door to door to discuss the issue with neighbors and remind them to watch for
the ballot cards coming in the mail and to mail in their card to vote.
Council Member Brinker asked for clarification on the proposed speed hump
ordinance that failed in 2015.
Mayor Reinersman stated making changes to the speed hump program was discussed
in 2015 but residents did not mail in the required amount to have the speed
bump issue added to the ballot to vote on it.
Council Member Aseere questioned if the Police Department could decide if a
speed hump was necessary based on the results of a speed survey. Mayor
Reinersman stated the ordinance regulates the process for speed hump approval
and installation. He stated this proposed ordinance will amend the current
process.
Council Member Franzen stated she has issues on her street also. She suggested
the possibility of adding a crosswalk and a stop sign to help slow down traffic
on Meadow Glen Drive. Chief Lucas stated the addition of a crosswalk in the
middle of the street would give a false sense of security to both children and
adults. He stated the City met with some residents on Meadow Glen Drive and
their suggested ideas are included in this proposed ordinance.
Craig Reinhart, 103018 Meadow Glen Drive, Independence – stated he agreed with
the proposed ordinance. He stated he didn’t see the verbiage in the proposed
ordinance regarding who gets to vote. Mr. Reinhart suggested to not require a
minimum number of ballots be returned and remove the proposed threshold of 75%
that must be returned.
Mr. Gatlin stated the proposed ordinance permits one vote per parcel, per
property owner. He stated the ballot card is mailed to each property owner on
record with the Kenton County PVA office. Mr. Gatlin stated the current
ordinance includes a minimum of 75% of the ballots mailed shall be returned;
and if 75% are not returned, no further consideration for speed humps will be
given. He stated the proposed ordinance reduces that amount to 66% of ballot
cards must be returned for consideration.
Council Member Franzen stated she can relate to residents not receiving their
postcards and questioned if online voting was an option. Mr. Gatlin stated
online voting programs are expensive and paid postage postcards are the
cheapest option. He stated it’s important to maintain a threshold on how many
ballots are received and suggests the City include a threshold in regards to
adding speed humps to residential streets.
Julie Reinhart, 103018 Meadow Glen Drive, Independence – expressed her
agreement with Craig Reinhart in regards to not believing there should be a
threshold for how many ballots are returned. She stated she feels it’s also
important to maintain a minimum number of houses included in ballot card voting
process for speed humps. Mrs. Reinhart questioned the cost of a speed hump.
Mr. Moriconi stated the approximate cost is $5500 per speed hump which includes
signage. He stated when this ordinance was written back in 2004, it was
designed to be tough for a reason and if a situation met the criteria it proved
there really was a problem and speed humps were needed.
Council Member Aseere questioned if it would it be possible for the Police
Department to make the determination that a serious problem exists and
recommend speed hump(s) installation. Mayor Reinersman stated the Police
Department assists with the speed survey and they identify if there is a
problem but the ordinance is in place for the speed hump approval process. He
stated that Council can meet further to discuss the issue and come up with
something else regarding amending the speed hump Ordinance No. 2004-O-07.
A motion was made by Council Member Deaton to table this proposed ordinance
regarding changes to the speed hump program and seconded by Council Member
Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Setting penalties for trucks on city streets where truck
traffic is prohibited – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance to Council which sets penalties
for trucks on city streets where truck traffic is prohibited and was prompted
by the Pelly Road Bridge incident. He stated Pelly Road Bridge was torn up last
year by a semi-truck trying to cross the bridge and resulted in costing the
city hundreds of thousands of dollars. Mayor Reinersman stated the construction
at Pelly Road Bridge is currently underway and will include a culvert pipe and
reinforced concrete walls on the sides.
Mayor Reinersman stated this proposed ordinance prohibits commercial vehicles
weighing in excess of 26,000 pounds to operate on all city streets that have a
NO TRUCKS traffic sign posted, including Pelly Road Bridge. He stated the first
violation of this ordinance includes a $250 fine as well as any remediation
costs for damages to the roadway (if any) and the second violation includes a
$500 fine and/or up to thirty days imprisonment as well as any remediation
costs for damages to the roadway (if any). Mayor Reinersman stated the posted
signs will state fine amounts as well as possible imprisonment to help deter
trucks from driving illegally over Pelly Road Bridge. Mr. Gatlin gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2016-R-08 – MRA Cooperative Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2016-R-08 which adopts and
approves the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract between the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet and the Department of
Intergovernmental Programs, for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2016, as
provided in the Kentucky Revised Statutes and accepting all streets referred as
part of the Incorporated City. He stated with this agreement, the city agrees
to pay 3% into an insurance fund for Emergency Road Aid in case we need
emergency funds in the future. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2016-R-08.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2016-R-08,
seconded by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Interlocal Agreement Joining the Regional Ethics Authority
Mayor Reinersman stated he is proposing the city join the Northern Kentucky
Regional Ethics Authority. He stated the City has had issues seeking City
Ethics Board members as well as to trying to get the Board together to meet two
to three times a year to review the Financial Disclosures for City Officials
and various committee members. He stated Northern Kentucky Area Development
District (NKADD) administers the Regional Ethics Board and the cost is $600 a
year. Mayor Reinersman stated the regional board and is more objective than
having an Ethics Board within the city.
Council Member Deaton stated there were missed pages of the agreement. City
Clerk Patricia Taney addressed Council and stated the missing pages were
signature pages for other City’s Mayors and only our City’s signature page was
included to save paper.
Mr. Moriconi stated the regional board joins multiple counties together and the
Board of Directors includes several City Mayors and Judge Executives. He stated
the Directors can appoint Ethics Board Members and the each City’s Council
votes for approval. Patricia Taney stated the nominees for the Regional Ethics
Board can’t be elected or appointed officials.
Mayor Reinersman asked for a motion to approve the city to enter into the
Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority. Council Member Franzen so moved,
seconded by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and votes were unanimous.
Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he recently left the law firm of Freund, Freeze & Arnold law
firm. He stated himself and Brandon Voekler have started their own law firm. He
stated it will not change anything for the city due to himself and Mr. Voekler
performing 99.9% of the work for the city.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the city is gearing up for the Independence Day celebration
and preparing for fireworks.
Executive Order No. 2016-EO-04 – Assumption of Contract with Gatlin & Voelker
PLLC as City Attorney
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Executive Order No. 2016-EO-04 which
approves the assumption of contract of Jack Gatlin and Gatlin Voelker, PLCC as
City Attorney.
Council Member Aseere made a motion to approve Executive Order No. 2016-EO-04,
seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was called and answered with 5 ayes and
Council Member Franzen recused herself from voting. Motion carried.
Mayor’s Report – Chris Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation to the Deters Company for being
invaluable partners for the Circus events in May and the upcoming Independence
Day celebrations.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:57 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
July 11, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 11,
2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, opened with a moment
of silence and led the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Lucas Deaton,
Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Council Member Bushong was absent. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney, Assistant
City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Public Works Director
Dan Koch.
Approval of the June 6, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Meeting Minutes for the regular meeting on June
6, 2016. Council Member Franzen stated a change request in the paragraph
discussing Executive Order No. 2106-EO-04. She stated she recused herself from
the vote, not abstained as noted in the minutes. Changes were noted and the
Mayor called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes as amended. Council
Member Yeager so moved, with a second by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called
and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Police Business – Swearing-in of new Police Officer
Mayor Reinersman swore in Police Officer Billy Roberts. The Mayor stated
Officer Roberts transferred from the Burnside Police Department.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-07 – Setting penalties for trucks on city streets where
truck traffic is prohibited – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2016-O-07 which sets penalties for
trucks on city streets where truck traffic is prohibited. Mr. Gatlin gave the
Ordinance a second reading and stated the ordinance has a small change from the
first reading which will allow public school buses for transporting children,
fire, police, other public protection vehicles as well as waste management
vehicles. Mr. Gatlin stated there had been some discussion regarding the
additional restrictions and if they violate the Commerce Clause of the United
States Constitution. He added the Commerce Clause does allow municipalities to
interfere with commerce as long as it’s not excessively burdensome and there is
rational basis.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-07,
seconded by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Ordinance No. 2004-O-07 - Relating to Residential
Speed Humps – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance that relates to
residential speed humps and stated the proposed ordinance was tabled during the
previous month’s meeting. He stated this proposed ordinance amends Ordinance
No. 2004-O-07 which relates to residential speed humps.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading. He stated he provided
to Council Ordinance 2004-O-07 indicating the proposed amendments. Mr. Gatlin
stated the following amendments:
∙   Property owners within 1,000 feet of the proposed speed hump location shall
receive a ballot, a minimum of 50% of ballots mailed shall be returned.
∙   A speed survey shall be used as the primary determination for the
percentage of property owners required to install a speed hump.
∙   If the speed survey indicates the 85th percentile speed is at 8 or more
miles per hour over the speed limit, than 51% of property owners need to vote
in favor of speed hump installation.
∙   If the speed survey indicates the 85th percentile speed is between 5 and 7
miles per hour over the speed limit, than 75% of property owners need to vote
in favor of speed hump installation.
∙   Changing from one vote per household to one vote per parcel per property
owner.
∙   Upon approval of Council, a community may request a second speed survey,
one year after the initial vote, and if the second speed survey indicates at
the 85th percentile, the speed is at eight or more miles per hour over the
speed limit, then a street may engage in a second petition and vote.
Council Member Franzen stated she would also like to add to the last amendment
noted that if the community goes through second petition and the vote fails,
they will have to wait 5 years until they can request an additional speed
survey through Council.
Jonicka Baker, 10291 Meadow Glen Drive, Independence – expressed her
appreciation to Council Member Franzen for her help with changing the ordinance
regarding the speed hump process.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Zoning Text Amendment Adding Restrictions on
Outdoor Storage and Business Activities with the DI and GMU Zones - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which adopts a
zoning text amendment adding restrictions on outdoor storage and business
activities within the DI (Downtown Independence) and GMU (Gateway Mixed Use)
zones. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading. He stated KCPC
(Kenton County Planning Commission) has made a favorable recommendation to
adding the restrictions on outdoor storage and business activities. He stated
their reasons for supporting the proposed text amendment are: the added
restrictions are allowable as authorized by KRS (Kentucky Revised Statute)
100.203 (1), are appropriate given the purposes of the DI and GMU zones, the DI
and GMU zones are intended to allow development at a pedestrian scale and
enhance the community, they help maintain or enhance the community character in
these areas and consistent with similar restrictions in other commercial zones
within Independence.
Award Bid – Frontier Drive Street Repairs
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the four bids that were received for the
Frontier Drive reconstruction project. He stated the Engineer’s estimate was
$143.100 and the lowest bid was from JPS Construction in the amount of
$119,316.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to award the bid to JPS Construction for
the Frontier Drive reconstruction project in the amount of $119,316. Council
Member Aseere seconded. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 5-0.
Award Bid – 2016 General Street Repair Program
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the five bids that were received for the
General Street Repair program for 2016 which includes Lakefield and Claiborne
subdivisions. He stated the Engineer’s estimate was $600,600 and the lowest bid
was from Len Riegler Blacktop, Inc. in the amount of $448,665.
Council Member Yeager made a motion to award the bid to Len Riegler Blacktop,
Inc in the amount of $448.665 for the 2016 General Street Repair Program.
Council Member Aseere seconded. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence – addressed council to discuss the
noise ordinance. She stated there are autistic children in her neighborhood who
have panic attacks due to the noise from fireworks and loud vehicles. She
stated she feels like it’s a waste of taxpayers’ money to have ordinances
published such as the noise ordinance if they are not going to be enforced. Ms.
Cook also stated the speeding is an issue on Carrie Way as well. The Mayor
stated the police have watched Carrie Way and they will continue to do so.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Court, Independence – addressed council to complain
about noise from her neighbors setting off fireworks while intoxicated. She
stated it affects people with anxiety, children, veterans, people that have to
get up early for work etc. and she has to clean up garbage and firework debris
in her yard.
Pelly Road Bridge Update
Public Works Director Dan Koch updated Council on the Pelly Road Bridge
project. He stated the culvert pipe was installed the previous weekend. Mr.
Koch stated the wing walls will be poured very soon and then the block walls
will start to be set and it will start to look like a bridge.
Mayor Reinersman thanked Mr. Koch as well as the City and Kenton County’s
Public Works department for all of their efforts. Mr. Moriconi added his
appreciation to both the city and County’s public works departments and stated
it was a great collaboration on the Pelly Road Bridge project.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he wanted to update Council on the SD1 (Sanitation District
No. 1) Interlocal Agreement situation. He stated several months ago Council
authorized to participate in potential litigation with 10-12 other cities
against SD1. Mr. Gatlin stated that SD1 has agreed to the proposed language and
they will be sending out a new Interlocal Agreement for all cities to sign as
well as a new lateral lines maintenance program. He stated the changes that are
included in the new agreement are: 1) that SD1 will continue to fund an amount
around $350,000 per year, and 2) SD1 will be solely responsible for costs
incurred with fixing necessary lateral lines as well as any remediation costs
for sidewalks, roads, etc. Mr. Gatlin stated with this new Interlocal
Agreement, the indemnification became null and void and the city will receive a
refund.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated his appreciation to everyone who attended the Independence
Celebration during the July 4th event and thanked volunteers and city staff for
their help.
Mayor’s Report – Chris Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation to everyone that was a part of the
Independence Celebration including the Police Department, Parks and Recreation
Director Nita Brake, Police Academy Alumni Association, the Explorers and
Council Member Brinker. He stated Dan Koch and Chris Moriconi worked together
to display the Police Flag banner on the city building and the picture was
shared on the city’s Facebook page. The Mayor stated there are currently around
83,000 views and 730 shares of the flag picture which got the point across that
we stand behind our Police Department and the community gets it.
Executive Session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c)
At 7:40 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Franzen and seconded by
Council Member Deaton to go into executive session in accordance with K.R.S.
61.810(c) to discuss pending litigation. Motion carried with all ayes.
At 7:53 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Brinker and seconded by
Council Member Deaton to resume regular meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:55 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Patricia H. Taney, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
August 1, 2016
The regularly scheduled Independence City Council Meeting was CANCELLED
August 15, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
15, 2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Patricia Taney,
Assistant City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Public Works
Director Dan Koch.
Recognition of City Clerk Patricia Taney
Mayor Reinersman stated City Clerk Patricia Taney will be retiring at the end
of August after 25 years of service. He presented Ms. Taney with a plaque which
stated her service as Assistant Clerk from 1991 to 1998 and City Clerk from
1998 to 2016, Ms. Taney also received the Outstanding Clerk of the Year Award
in 2012.
Chris Moriconi stated when he was Mayor for 12 years, he also worked a full
time job and Ms. Taney helped keep him informed with deadlines, publications,
Council meetings, tax bills, etc. Council stated their appreciation to Ms.
Taney for her years of service and friendship.
Approval of the July 11, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on July 11,
2016. Council Member Yeager questioned the wording in the paragraphs covering
Ordinance No. 2016-O-07 which prohibits truck traffic on Pelly Road Bridge.
Comments were noted and minutes will be amended to clarify the restrictions.
Council Member Franzen asked the Mayor for a Pelly Road Bridge update. Mayor
Reinersman stated with the excessive heat and rain this summer, the Pelly Road
Bridge will not be completed before school starts back up as hoped but is close
to completion.
Council Member Aseere stated there’s been some negative comments from drivers
regarding the city and questioned if some directional signage could be added.
Mayor Reinersman stated solar signs may be added to inform trucks not to enter
Pelly Road.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the amended meeting minutes for
the Regular Meeting held on July 11, 2016. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Concrete Contract Extension – Ernst Concrete
Mayor Reinersman stated the contract with Ernst Concrete has expired and needs
to be renewed. He stated the current contract with Ernst is for concrete usage
for city projects.
Public Works Director Dan Koch stated the current price of concrete is $92 a
yard and the contract extension includes a $5 increase for a total cost of $97
a yard. He stated even with the price increase, the price is still cheaper than
other concrete companies.
Council Member Bushong stated the price of diesel fuel has come down since the
original contract was agreed to and suggested the city try to negotiate with
Ernst regarding the price of the fuel surcharge.
Mayor Reinersman asked Council for a motion to approve the contract extension
with Ernst Concrete for $97 a yard. Council Member Yeager so moved, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Sanitation District No. 1 Agreements – For Participation in Private Sewer
Lateral Repair Program and Interlocal Cooperation for Infrastructure Projects,
Programs or Policies   
Mayor Reinersman stated several months ago the city along with several other
cities, threatened a lawsuit against SD1 (Sanitation District No. 1) regarding
the private sewer lateral repair agreement. He stated the most recent agreement
stated the property owner was responsible for repairs under the right of way
and that changes with the new agreement.
Mr. Gatlin stated the new SD1 Board and several Northern Kentucky Mayors
amicably worked out a resolution regarding the lateral lines repair agreement.
He stated the first agreement includes participation in the private sewer
lateral repair program which SD1 will budget $350,000 each year for repairs,
unless a 60 day notice is given prior to the budget cycle. Mr. Gatlin stated
there is no indemnification due to the new agreement and SD1 will be solely
responsible for all lateral line repairs in the right of way. He stated the
second agreement is the Master Interlocal Cooperation Agreement which grants
cooperation between the city and SD1 for infrastructure projects so SD1 can
make repairs needs as needed within the right of way.
There was some discussion with Council regarding the SD1 letter regarding the
$350,000 SD1 has budgeted for repairs as well as the length of the agreement.
Mayor Reinersman stated this agreement removes the responsibility from the
property owners for the right of way repairs and puts it back on SD1. He stated
the budgeted amount of $350,000 is expected to be more than enough to cover any
repairs incurred and is approximately 15% higher than the amount budgeted 2
years ago. Mr. Gatlin stated this agreement isn’t perfect but the three Judge
Executives are approvers of SD1’s budget and won’t back down on this issue in
the future.
Council Member Bushong made a motion to approve the Mayor to sign the SD1
Agreement for Participation in Private Sewer Lateral Repair Program as well as
the SD1 Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for Infrastructure Projects, Programs
or Policies, seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and there were
4 votes in favor of and 2 opposing votes from Council Member Yeager and Council
Member Aseere. Motion carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-08 – Amending Ordinance No. 2004-O-07 - Relating to
Residential Speed Humps – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2016-O-08 which is an
ordinance relating to residential speed humps.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2016-O-08 a second reading and stated this
ordinance amends Ordinance No. 2004-O-07 which relates to residential speed
humps.
Mr. Gatlin stated the following amendments to Ordinance No. 2004-O-07:
∙   Property owners within 1,000 feet of the proposed speed hump location shall
receive a ballot, a minimum of 50% of ballots mailed shall be returned.
∙   A speed survey shall be used as the primary determination for the
percentage of property owners required to install a speed hump.
∙   If the speed survey indicates the 85th percentile speed is at 8 or more
miles per hour over the speed limit, than 51% of property owners need to vote
in favor of speed hump installation.
∙   If the speed survey indicates the 85th percentile speed is between 5 and 7
miles per hour over the speed limit, than 75% of property owners need to vote
in favor of speed hump installation.
∙   Changing from one vote per household to one vote per parcel per property
owner.
∙   Upon approval of Council, a community may request a second speed survey,
one year after the initial vote, and if the second speed survey indicates at
the 85th percentile, the speed is at eight or more miles per hour over the
speed limit, then a street may engage in a second petition and vote. However if
the community goes through second petition and the vote fails, they will have
to wait 5 years until they can request an additional speed survey through
Council.
Mayor Reinersman asked Council for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-08
which amends Ordinance No. 2004-O-07 relating to residential speed humps.
Council Member Franzen made a motion, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-09 – Adopting Zoning Text Amendment Adding Restrictions on
Outdoor Storage and Business Activities with the DI and GMU Zones – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2016-O-09 which is an
ordinance that adopts a zoning text amendment adding restrictions on outdoor
storage and business activities within the DI (Downtown Independence) and GMU
(Gateway Mixed Use) zones.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2016-O-09 a second reading. He stated KCPC
(Kenton County Planning Commission) has made a favorable recommendation to
adding the restrictions on outdoor storage and business activities. He stated
their reasons for supporting the proposed text amendment are: the added
restrictions are allowable as authorized by KRS (Kentucky Revised Statute)
100.203 (1), are appropriate given the purposes of the DI and GMU zones, the DI
and GMU zones are intended to allow development at a pedestrian scale and
enhance the community, they help maintain or enhance the community character in
these areas and consistent with similar restrictions in other commercial zones
within Independence.
Mayor Reinersman asked Council for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-09
which adopts a zoning text amendment to add restrictions on outdoor storage
within the DI and GMU Zones. Council Member Yeager made a motion, seconded by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2016 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council the proposed ordinance which adopts the
property tax rates for 2016. He stated the compensating rate is 0.275 on real
property and 0.776 on personal property. Mayor Reinersman stated to balance the
2016/2017 budget, the real property tax rate needs to be 0.271. He stated for
the average home price of $161,000, it would be an increase of about $27 for
the year. He added the personal property rate will stay at 0.642.
Council Member Aseere asked the Mayor to list the highlights of the 2016/2017
budget changes. Mayor Reinersman stated significant items included setting
aside $100,000 for the new digital radio system in 2018, the Pelly Road Bridge
project, Holton Drive replacement, increasing the roads budget from $750,000 to
$1,000,000, which puts us closer to the engineers estimate of $1,200,000 per
year needed to stay on track, as well as adding a much needed public works
employee.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading. He stated the proposed
tax rate for real property is $0.271 for each one hundred dollars of the
assessed value and the personal property tax rate will remain at $0.642 for
each one hundred dollars of the assessed value.
Municipal Order No. 2016-MO-01 – Appointment of Gina Gabbard to City Clerk
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2016-MO-01 which
approves the promotion of Assistant Clerk Gina Gabbard to City Clerk effective
September 1, 2016.
Mr. Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2016-MO-01 which approves the appointment
of Mrs. Gabbard to City Clerk effective September 1, 2016 as Patricia Taney
retires.
Mayor Reinersman asked Council for a motion to approve Municipal Order No.
2016-MO-01 which approves the promotion of Assistant Clerk Gina Gabbard to City
Clerk effective September 1, 2016. Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by
Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion
carried 6-0.
Executive Session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c)
At 7:57 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by
Council Member Franzen to go into executive session in accordance with K.R.S.
61.810(c) to discuss pending or proposed litigation. Motion carried with all
ayes.
At 8:48 p.m. a motion was made by Council Member Bushong and seconded by
Council Member Franzen to resume the regular meeting. Motion carried with all
ayes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Yeager to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:49 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
September 12, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
12, 2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong led the invocation.
Mayor Reinersman stated one of the city’s Park Board Members Darren Daly passed
away suddenly and asked for a moment of silence in his honor. Roll was called
and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker,
Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Also present was
City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack
Gatlin and Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the August 15, 2016 Special Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman stated he previously asked Mrs. Gabbard to make a couple of
corrections on the minutes prior to the meeting which have been made and
Council has the updated version in their packets. He asked Council if there
were any changes or corrections they would like made to the Council Minutes for
the special meeting on August 15, 2016.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Special Meeting held on August 15, 2016. Council Member Yeager so moved, with a
second by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 6-0.
Introduction of New Independence Fire Chief
Mayor Reinersman introduced the new Independence Fire Chief Scott Breeze. He
stated Fire Chief Messingschlager retired on August 1, 2016 and Mr. Breeze was
the assistant under Chief Messingschlager.
Fire Chief Breeze addressed council. He stated he has been an Independence
resident his entire life and has been a member of the Fire Department since
1995. Chief Breeze stated he is excited about the direction the department is
headed in and is thankful for everything Chief Messingschlager did while he was
with the department.
Police Recognitions – Promotion of John Lonaker and Swearing in New Recruit
Adam Strine
Mayor Reinersman swore in New Police Recruit Adam Strine. The Mayor stated Mr.
Strine will start the Police Academy in October.
Mayor Reinersman presented a plaque to newly appointed Assistant Police Chief
John Lonaker.
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation to the Explorers for helping out with
the St. Cecelia festival over Labor Day weekend with directing traffic and
earned a donation for the Explorer program.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-10 – Adopting 2016 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2016-O-10 which adopts the property
tax rates for the fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2016 and ending on June 30,
2017. He stated the real property tax rate will be 0.271 and the personal
property rate will stay at 0.642.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2016-O-10 a second reading. He stated Ordinance
No. 2016-O-10 adopts the tax rate for real property at $0.271 for each one
hundred dollars of the assessed value and the personal property tax rate at
$0.642 for each one hundred dollars of the assessed value. Mr. Gatlin stated
the taxes are due by December 31, 2016 and are subject to 15% penalty and 6%
interest if paid after December 31, 2016. He stated if taxes are paid prior to
November 1, 2016, there will be a 2% discount.
Al Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence, KY – stated the new real property
rate of 0.271 is an increase of 6.69%. Mr. Daly asked what the new total
expected revenue would be with the increased rate and what happens to the
excess revenue.
Mayor Reinersman stated it was approximately $400,000 in additional revenue. He
stated the 2016/2017 budget increase includes $100,000 towards the new digital
radios, Pelly Road Bridge and a $250,000 increase in the roads budget. Mayor
Reinersman stated when he took office as Mayor, he asked the City Engineer to
evaluate city streets and the report estimated the city would need to spend
$1.2 million per year to stay on top of street repairs. He stated the city has
a reserves fund for unexpected situations and recently have used some of those
on the Holton Drive resurfacing project.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-10 which
adopts the 2016 fiscal year real property tax rate at 0.271 and the personal
property rate at 0.642. Council Member Bushong so moved, with a second by
Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Code Enforcement Amendment – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council proposed ordinance which amends
procedures of the code enforcement board and supplements Ordinance 2015-O-20
and section 93 of the Independence Code of Ordinances.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading. He stated House Bill
422 passed earlier this year and the proposed ordinance deals with housekeeping
items regarding nuisance issues and foreclosed properties. Mr. Gatlin states
with the passing of House Bill 422, this proposed ordinance includes several
items: extending lien statue limitations to 10 years, a creation of a new
lienholder electronic notification system, an interlocal agreement between PDS
and the city which states that PDS will handle the updates to the new
lienholder notification system, citations become final if not appealed or paid
within 7 days, and the approval of the Mayor to appoint members to the Joint
Code Enforcement Board. He stated since the city is part of the Kenton County
Joint Code Enforcement Board, most of these changes will be the responsibility
of PDS and the Joint Code Enforcement Board.
Council Member Deaton asked where the reimbursement monies come from to Joint
Code Enforcement Board Members for participating on the board. Mayor Reinersman
stated Board Members receive a stipend and it comes from PDS’ budget, not from
the city.
Council Member Franzen stated the city’s previous Code Enforcement Board had
issues with attendance and were unable to form a quorum for meetings. Mr.
Gatlin stated the training is critical for Code Enforcement Board Members
because there are statutory requirements for training.
Chris Moriconi stated a model nuisance ordinance will be presented in the
coming months which relates to this issue.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated on his website for his own law firm, a picture of the
Independence courthouse is featured on the main banner page.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Public Works Department currently has two separate
crews working on two different projects in the city with a new employee
recently added to the department.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Kenton County Farm Tour is going on Saturday,
September 17th and the Independence Farmers Market is the first stop. He stated
there will be a biscuits and gravy eating contest at 9:00 a.m. Mayor Reinersman
stated the Parks and Recreation Department has several events going on such as
belly dancing on Wednesday nights, Arts Unkorked which is a painting activity
that you can bring your own wine held on Friday September 23rd and True Crimes
in Independence sponsored by the William Durr Library are held on October 3, 10
and 17 and need to register on library’s website.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Bushong to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:30 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
October 3, 2016
COUNCIL MEETING
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
3, 2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Bushong led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard,
City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant Police Chief John Lonaker.
Approval of the September 12, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on September 12,
2016.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on September 12, 2016. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Bushong. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Friend of Kentucky City Award – Senator Thayer
Mayor Reinersman stated Deputy Director of the Kentucky League of Cities, J.D.
Chaney and Kentucky State Senator, Damon Thayer were attending the Council
Meeting to share the Friend of Kentucky City Award. Mr. Chaney presented
Senator Thayer with the KLC 2016 Friend of City Award. He stated KLC hands out
awards each year to legislators that sponsor or support legislation that help
Kentucky cities. He stated Senator Thayer has been a friend to city government
over the years by chairing the Senate Local Government Committee and acting as
the current Majority Floor Leader.
Senator Thayer stated he requested to receive the award in Independence because
the city has been so supportive and maintain a great working relationship. He
stated his grandfather was a small town mayor in Michigan and influenced him to
become a public servant. Senator Thayer stated elected officials are expected
to produce results and solutions to citizen’s concerns. He stated his
appreciation to KLC for presenting him with the award and to the city for
allowing him to receive the award during the Council Meeting.
Police Recognitions – Swearing in Officer Daniel Potts
Mayor Reinersman swore in Officer Daniel Potts. He stated Officer Potts has
been with the Taylor Mill Police Department for the past three years.
OpenGov Demo – Website displaying transparency to city financials
Mayor Reinersman stated OpenGov is a transparency website that is up and ready
for Council and the public to access the city’s financial information. Mr.
Moriconi stated Mayor Reinersman has been supportive on transparency to the
public by adding Council Meeting Agendas on Facebook, communication to the
public via newsletters and social media. Mr. Moriconi stated OpenGov is a very
user friendly site that can be accessed from the city’s website by clicking on
the OpenGov link on the home page. He added his appreciation to the Finance
Director Terri Hudson and City Clerk Gina Gabbard for their help with
implementing this new site.
Finance Director Terri Hudson demonstrated how to get to the OpenGov site from
the home page on the city’s website. She stated the current reports available
for public viewing are 1) Revenues and Expenses, 2) Assets and Liabilities and
3) Budget versus Actual and each report contains three years’ worth of data.
Mrs. Hudson stated on the left column, are example questions the public can
click on to see financial information displayed with graphs as well as the
dollar breakdown. She stated the graphs and data can be downloaded and
displayed in various graph types and will be updated each month.
Council Member Brinker asked if other cities were using this site or something
similar. Mayor Reinersman stated Edgewood, Covington, and Ft Wright are
currently utilizing OpenGov. He stated OpenGov is a great tool for transparency
for both Council Members as well as citizens to view where the tax dollars are
being spent.
Council Member Deaton questioned the cost of the program. Mrs. Hudson responded
the cost was approximately $6,000 which included training and initial set up
fees and years two and three will be around $3,000.
Mr. Moriconi stated a lot of research was done prior to signing up for OpenGov
including conference calls, visiting other cities and talking with other
Mayors.
Donald Barnett, 788 Jimae Ave, Independence, KY. Mr. Barnett stated his
appreciation to Council for this program and believes it will be a useful tool.
He stated he likes the quick access this gives to residents that are interested
in the city’s financials and eliminates the waiting period for copies.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-11 – Code Enforcement Amendment – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2016-O-11 which amends procedures of
the code enforcement board and supplements Ordinance 2015-O-20 and section 93
of the Independence Code of Ordinances.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2016-O-11 a second reading. He stated House Bill
422 passed earlier this year and the proposed ordinance deals with housekeeping
items regarding nuisance issues and foreclosed properties. Mr. Gatlin states
with the passing of House Bill 422, this proposed ordinance includes several
items: extending lien statue limitations to 10 years, a creation of a new
lienholder electronic notification system, an interlocal agreement between PDS
and the city which states that PDS will handle the updates to the new
lienholder notification system, citations become final if not appealed or paid
within 7 days, and the approval of the Mayor to appoint members to the Joint
Code Enforcement Board. He stated since the city is part of the Kenton County
Joint Code Enforcement Board, most of these changes will be the responsibility
of PDS and the Joint Code Enforcement Board.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-11 which
amends procedures of the code enforcement board and supplements Ordinance 2015-
O-20 and section 93 of the Independence Code of Ordinances. Council Member
Bushong so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Enacting New Nuisance Ordinance
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed Ordinance which repeals section 93 of the
Independence Code of Ordinances and Ordinance No. 2015-O-20, each of which are
the current nuisance ordinances, and enacts a new nuisance ordinance.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading. He stated this
ordinance would repeal and replace Ordinance No. 2015-O-20. Mr. Gatlin stated
the new ordinance is a collaboration from several cities in Northern Kentucky.
He stated the fowl ordinance and ATV ordinance will be included in the new
updated nuisance ordinance. Mr. Gatlin stated in line with HB 422, all
violations will be civil fines.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated a joint mini cell tower ordinance is in conversations with
several cities.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated Rumpke will be providing fall leaf pick up during the
service weeks of October 24, November 7 and November 28. He stated Pelly Rd
will be repaved in the near future.
Council Member Franzen suggested when Pelly Road is repaved, if the speed humps
could also be painted yellow to help stand out to help drivers see them.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the annual Christmas Walk is coming up the first
weekend of December. He stated anyone interested in participating in the parade
with a float, more information on the Independence Business Association’s
website.
Mayor Reinersman stated Pelly Road Bridge is open 80% and hopeful it will be
fully open within a week. He stated his appreciation for Public Works, city
engineer, Kenton County Public Works, Senator Thayer who helped increase the
Municipal Road Aid to $100,000 toward the rebuild. Mayor Reinersman reminded
citizens to be considerate of the 25 mile an hour speed limit on Pelly Road.
Mayor Reinersman stated he spoke to the third graders at Beechgrove Elementary
a couple of weeks ago and they sent him a special thank you card.
He stated he is working with Rusty Mardis with Tri-state Veterans Alliance and
in partner with Kentucky Veterans Department of Affairs, they want to pilot a
program and send one of their staff to Northern Kentucky a couple days a month
to work with veterans. He stated program will be using an open office two days
a week at the city building and the project is expected to begin in November.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:48 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
November 14, 2016
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
14, 2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence in place of the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and Donna Yeager. Council
Members Brinker and Bushong were absent. Also present was City Administrator
Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Police
Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the October 3, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on October 3,
2016.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on October 3, 2016. Council Member Yeager so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 4-0.
Police Recognitions – Swearing in Officer Zachary Kaiser
Mayor Reinersman swore in Officer Zachary Kaiser.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-12 – Nuisance Ordinance – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2016-O-12 which repeals Section 93 of
the Independence Code of Ordinances and Ordinance No. 2015-O-20, each of which
are current nuisance ordinances, and enacts a new nuisance ordinance.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2016-O-12 a second reading. He stated this
ordinance would repeal and replace Ordinance No. 2015-O-20 and the new
ordinance is a collaboration from several cities in Northern Kentucky but still
includes the fowl and ATV ordinances, which are unique to Independence. Mr.
Gatlin stated this is a housekeeping item and is in line with the changes
regarding HB 422.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-12.
Council Member Franzen so moved, seconded by Council Member Aseere. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
Mayor Reinersman stated the Kenton County Fiscal Court has passed the vacant
property registry and there will be more to come on that in the future.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting New Personnel Policies and Procedures Handbook -
1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which repeals all prior
personnel policies and procedures and adopts a new personnel policies and
procedures handbook for City employees. He stated the KLC Model Handbook and
Northern Kentucky Area Development District Handbook were used as reference and
it was a two year process to complete. He thanked Mr. Moriconi, Chief Lucas,
former City Clerk Patricia Taney, current City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Jack
Gatlin.
Mayor Reinersman stated the first item changing is comp time. He stated it will
be eliminated and hourly employees will be paid time and a half for hours
worked over 40 hours. Mayor Reinersman stated salaried employees will now be
eligible for flex time which needs to be used within 30 days with supervisor
approval. He stated paid time off will go from 3 buckets: annual paid leave
(APL), sick time and personal time into one bucket of APL. Mayor Reinersman
stated employees with at least one year of service will gain a half a day of
paid time off per year with the new policy.
Mayor Reinersman stated the workers compensation policy will change from six
months of full pay to 30 days. He stated the City has one of the worst
multipliers in the state and the premium has increased $100,000 in the past few
years. Mayor Reinersman stated employees may use APL concurrently with short
term disability to help supplement their pay. He stated employees are able to
donate APL to co-workers if something unforeseen happened and they exhaust all
of their APL. Mayor Reinersman stated modified duty is an option to employees
if work is available and fits within their restrictions. He stated the last
change was the addition of a social media policy.
Council Member Deaton asked if employees are able to share APL time and when
the new policy goes into effect. Mayor Reinersman responded that employees may
donate APL time to each other and if passed in December with the second
reading, the new handbook would be effective January 1, 2017. Council Member
Deaton asked what happens to the accumulated comp time. Mayor Reinersman stated
employees won’t lose the accumulated comp time and it will be available for
them to use.
Council Member Yeager stated she would like the City to look into KLC’s
definition of hourly and salary employees for the Park and Recreation Director.
Mayor Reinersman stated he will look into it. Council Member Deaton asked if
other cities have different workers comp policies for Police verses
Administration employees. Mr. Gatlin stated legally, employers cannot
discriminate on workers comp regarding class. Council Member Aseere asked if
there were any retirement changes in the new handbook. Mayor Reinersman stated
there are no changes regarding retirement but there have been discussions of
adding a 401k matching plan for employees. He stated it’s a budget concern and
will be discussed after the first of the year.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2016-R-09 – Vet Clinic Text Amendment
Mayor Reinersman stated Resolution No. 2016-R-09 provides a proposal for a text
amendment which allows Veterinary offices for small animals and small animal
clinics as permitted use in the NC Zone.
Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2016-R-09. He stated if the resolution is passed
by Council, it will go to Planning and Development Services (PDS) for review.
Mr. Gatlin added the Kenton County Planning Commission will conduct a public
hearing and make a recommendation concerning the application. Mr. Gatlin stated
if approved, it will come back to Council for a first and second reading and
would be adopted by ordinance.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2016-R-09 which
provides a proposal to add veterinary offices for small animals and small
animal clinics as a permitted use in the NC Zone. Council Member Yeager so
moved, seconded by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 4-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated Ordinances will now be codified and published on a monthly
basis so information will be more up to date and available to residents
regarding local legislation. He stated he will be working remotely from the
Municipal Center on Thursdays and will only need to utilize wifi, there will be
no cost to the city.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the new apartments behind Kroger is having their Grand
Opening Open House on November 15 from noon until 8:00 p.m. He also stated the
20th Annual Christmas Walk will be on December 3, 2016.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman congratulated the newly elected Council Members and expressed
his appreciation to the Council Members whose term ends at the end of this
year.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:41 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
December 5, 2016
COUNCIL MEETING
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
5, 2016 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and American
Legion Commander Rusty Mardis opened with the Pledge of Allegiance and Jim
Bushong led the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Bill Aseere, Jim Bushong, Lucas Deaton, Carol Franzen and
Donna Yeager. Council Member Brinker was absent. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack
Gatlin, Nita Brake and Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the November 14, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on November 14,
2016.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on November 14, 2016. Council Member Yeager so moved, with
a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried 5-0.
Council Member Recognition – Tom Brinker, Jim Bushong and Donna Yeager
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation for the long terms served by Council
Members Yeager, Bushong and Brinker. He stated Ms. Yeager began with the Fire
Department, helped tremendously with city parks on the Recreation Committee and
has served many terms on Council as well as filling in as interim Mayor. Mayor
Reinersman stated Jim Bushong served in the U.S. Air Force, was the first
President of the Independence Citizens Police Academy Alumni Association as
well as serving several terms on Council.
Mayor Reinersman presented Council Member Yeager and Council Member Bushong
with recognition plaques for their years of service and commitment to the city.
Mr. Moriconi stated he learned a lot from Ms. Yeager and admires her work
ethic. He stated he learned Mr. Bushong was a good golfer and it’s been a
pleasure working with him over the years. Council Members Franzen and Deaton
shared their appreciation to Mr. Bushong and Ms. Yeager.
Moon Brothers American Legion – Independence Salutes Program
Mayor Reinersman introduced Commander Rusty Mardis to share information about
the Independence Salutes Banner Program. Mr. Mardis addressed Council and
stated the 24” x 36” banners can be ordered through the American Legion Post by
emailing moonbrothers275@gmail.com , calling 859-429-0750 or online at
www.operationhonor.org . He stated the banners are scheduled to fly for three
consecutive years from mid-May through mid-November in the Independence Kroger
parking lot and other areas within the city. Mr. Mardis stated the two sided
banners will cost $149 through February 1, 2017 and $169 through April 1, 2017.
He stated the banners will honor heroes from fire, police, military or a
veteran and will feature the honored hero’s name, photo, branch and years of
service.
Ordinance No. 2016-O-13– Adopting New Personnel Policies and Procedures
Handbook – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2016-O-13 which repeals all prior
personnel policies and procedures and adopts a new personnel policies and
procedures handbook for City employees.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2016-O-13 a second reading. He stated Ordinance
No. 2016-O-13 repeals all prior personnel policies and procedures and adopts a
new personnel policies and procedures handbook for City employees effective
January 1, 2017. He stated the only change from the first reading is the exempt
position of Parks and Recreation Director will be an hourly position with the
title of Parks and Recreation Facilitator.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2016-O-13.
Council Member Bushong so moved, seconded by Council Member Yeager. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Resolution No. 2016-R-10 – Sponsoring a Proposed Text Amendment for Design
Standards
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2016-R-10 is a sponsorship
for a proposed text amendment for design standards for residential housing. He
stated if this resolution is approved, it would be sent to the Kenton County
Planning Commission for a public hearing and approval, then would come back to
Council for final approval. Mayor Reinersman stated the proposed residential
design standards for new developments would limit vinyl, metal, stucco,
concrete and aluminum siding to 25% but there are architectural features that
can be added to increase the allowable amount of up to 50% siding on the home.
Council Member Deaton made a motion to table Resolution No. 2016-R-10 to
sponsor a proposed text amendment for residential design standards in new
developments. Council Member Aseere seconded. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Municipal Order No. 2016-MO-02 – Appointment to Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Municipal Order No. 2016-MO-12 which
appoints Al Daly to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board. Mr. Gatlin
read Municipal Order No. 2016-MO-02.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2016-O-02.
Council Member Aseere so moved, seconded by Council Member Deaton. Roll was
called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated Sanitation District No. 1 appointed Adam Chaney as their new
director. He stated this is a positive change and believes it will be good for
the community. Mr. Gatlin stated a mini cell towers are coming to this
community and there have been drafts of a resolution, ordinance and agreement
that was put together by the Telecommunications Board. He stated the attorneys
in Kenton County are working together to unify one agreement and one ordinance
for the mini cell towers and expects it to be complete in 30 to 60 days. Mr.
Gatlin stated he has appreciated working with the current Council.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated his appreciation to the Police Department, Nita Brake,
Public Works, City Staff and all of the volunteers that help made the Christmas
Walk a success.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated his gratitude to everyone that helped with the
Christmas walk including City Staff, Public Works, the Police Department, Boy
Scouts, and many more. He especially wanted to thank the three that started the
Christmas Walk 20 years ago who are Donna Yeager, Nita Brake and Jamie Henson.
Mayor Reinersman stated Katie Carpenter was crowned Miss Independence during
this year’s Pageant.
Council Member Yeager stated her appreciation to everyone for working with
them. She thanked her family and friends for being there for her over the
years. Ms. Yeager added her thanks to Nita Brake who has been with her since
she started.
Council Member Franzen thanked the Boy Scout troop for picking up the trash the
morning after the Christmas Walk.
Council Member Deaton stated the girls in the Independence Pageant are working
with the Sevier County Humane Society to collect donations for the animals
displaced and injured during the recent Gatlinburg fires. He stated they are
asking for Dawn dish soap, Advantix, Frontline, Lysol spray, duct tape and
plastic sheeting to help animals caught in the wildfire.
Executive Order No. 2016-EO-05 – Re-appointment to the OKI Board of Directors
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2016-EO-05 which re-appoints
Christopher J. Reinersman to the OKI Board of Directors.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Yeager and
seconded by Council Member Bushong to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:53 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
2017 Minutes
January 9, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 9, 2017
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
9, 2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and opened
with the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll
was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere,
John Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City
Attorney Jack Gatlin, and Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the December 5, 2016 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on December 5,
2016.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on December 5, 2016. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
a second by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Police Recognitions - Promotions of Runge, Paul, Ferayorni, Fuson and Kenner
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation and presented plaques for recent
Police promotions. Explorer Tyler Runge was promoted to Captain, Scott Paul to
Captain, Brian Ferayorni to Lieutenant, Nathan Fuson to Sergeant and Andrew
Kenner to Sergeant.
Resolution No. 2017-R-01 – Sponsoring a Proposed Text Amendment for Design
Standards
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2017-R-01 which sponsors
proposed text amendment for design standards in residential housing. He stated
if this resolution is approved, it is sent to Planning and Development Services
for a public hearing and recommendation from the Kenton County Planning
Commission, then would come back to Council for final approval. Mayor
Reinersman stated the proposed residential design standards are for new
developments only and would limit vinyl, metal, stucco, concrete and aluminum
siding to 25% but there are architectural features that can be added to
increase the allowable amount of up to 50% siding on the home. Mr. Gatlin read
Resolution No. 2017-R-01.
Council Member Taney asked if any other Northern Kentucky communities have
adopted residential design standards. Mayor Reinersman stated Villa Hills and
Union have implemented design standards and PDS helped draft the language in
the resolution. He stated the proposed design standards will not affect
existing developments.
Council Member Aseere asked how larger lots could be associated with this
change. Mayor stated the options are to adopt change by text amendment or the
property could be re-zoned. Mr. Gatlin stated text amendments are the easier
way to update the lot sizes but wouldn’t effect lots that were previously
platted.
Council Member Taney made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-01 which
sponsors a proposed text amendment for residential design standards in new
developments. Council Member Waite seconded. Roll was called and answered with
5 yes votes and 1 no vote from Council Member Deaton. Motion carried 5-1.
Resolution No. 2017-R-02 – Hogreffe Property Extension to Kenton County School
Board
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2017-R-02 which allows the
Kenton County School Board an additional 10 years to build a school named after
G. Wayne Bridges at 314 Hogreffe Road. He stated the land was deeded by the
Bridges family to the Kenton County School Board in 2006 with the stipulation
of building a new school within 12 years. Mayor Reinersman added due to
economic downturn around 2008, plans haven’t been made and is still currently
on hold.
Council Member Aseere asked who would make the determination on the traffic
flow if a school was built on Hogreffe. Mr. Moriconi stated a school plan would
be submitted for review and a traffic study would be conducted at that time.
Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2017-R-02 and stated this extension would
provide the Kenton County School Board until 2028 to build a school on the
property.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-02.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Taney. Roll
was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Declare Surplus Property – Dodge Chargers and telephones
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a 2009 Dodge Charger, three 2007 Dodge
Chargers and 50 Avaya telephones that have been declared surplus property. The
Mayor stated the vehicles will be auctioned on govdeals.com. He added the phone
system is original from when the city building was built in 2004 and have been
recently replaced with a new IP phone system. Mr. Moriconi stated the phones
will be turned over to Cincinnati Bell and we’ll receive a rebate for close to
$1,000.
Council Member Aseere made a motion to declare the 2009 Dodge Charger, three
2007 Dodge Chargers, 50 Avaya phones as surplus property, seconded by Council
Member Waite. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin welcomed the new Council Members and encouraged them to attend the
Kentucky League of Cities’ City Officials Academy. He stated PDS along with
several Northern Kentucky cities have worked together over the past year and
together created a joint agreement regarding mini cell phone towers. Mr. Gatlin
stated PDS has approved new regulations and any cell phone provider that
approaches the city will have to go to PDS first. He stated when that happens,
Council will then pass an ordinance and resolution specific to that cell phone
provider.
Council Member Taney asked if the mini cell towers would be installed on phone
poles and if these would generate any income for the city. Mr. Moriconi stated
they can be attached to existing poles or may need to install a new pole if one
isn’t in the correct spot per the cell phone company. Mr. Gatlin stated the
city is able to charge the provider the cost of the installation but aren’t
able to generate any income.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi welcomed the new members of Council and told them to reach out to
him with any questions.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Executive Order No. 2017-EO-01 – Appointment to the Telecommunications Board of
Northern Kentucky
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2017-EO-01 which appoints
Patricia H. Taney to the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky for the
term of January 2017 through December 2018.
Executive Order No. 2017-EO-02 – Appointment of Christopher J. Reinersman to
the Planning and Development Services Council
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2017-EO-02 which re-appoints
Christopher J. Reinersman to the Planning and Development Services Council for
2017.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:53 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
February 6, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 6, 2017
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
6, 2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, Eagle Scout
Flynn Blanchet led the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney
and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk
Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin, Police Chief Tony Lucas and Finance
Director Terri Hudson.
Approval of the January 9, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman stated there were a couple changes made to the minutes prior
to the meeting. He stated the changes included updating the number of surplus
Chargers from four to three and the vote to approve the January meeting minutes
answered all ayes. He asked Council if there were any additional changes or
corrections they would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting
on January 9, 2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on January 9, 2017. Council Member Taney so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proclamation – Congenital Health Defect Awareness Week – February 7th – 14th,
2017
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to Gary Helton to recognize the week
of February 7th – 14th, 2017 as Congenital Heart Defect Awareness Week.
Proclamation – Eagle Scout Flynn Blanchet
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to Flynn Blanchet to recognize the
efforts of his Eagle Scout project of building benches and steps in the trails
at Memorial Park.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment for Small Veterinary Clinic in NC Zone –
1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which is a text
amendment adding Veterinary offices for small animals and small animal clinics
as a permitted use to the NC Zone. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading and stated the recommendations from the Kenton County Planning
Commission are to pass the text amendment because it’s reasonable, appropriate
and consistent with the purpose of the NC Zone.
Resolution No. 2017-R-03– Transfer Control of Fowler Creek Sewer to Sanitation
District No. 1
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2017-R-03 which transfers
the control of Fowler Creek Sanitary Sewer System to Sanitation District No. 1
(SD1). Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2017-R-03 and stated the Memorandum of
Understanding between Sanitation District No. 1 and the city is attached. He
stated the Memorandum states that once the transfer is complete, SD1 will be
solely responsible for the maintenance, repair and upkeep of the Fowler Creek
Sewer System and releases the city of any obligation. Mr. Gatlin added the
agreement from 1999 states once the debt is paid off and all litigation has
been resolved, the legal title shall pass to the district.
Council Member Taney stated her concern regarding the language in the
memorandum to include all sewer systems in Independence, not just Fowler Creek.
Council Member Aseere asked if there is a possibility that SD1 would raise the
rates for residents with the addition of Fowler Creek. The Mayor stated rates
are district wide, not particular to each city. Mr. Gatlin added that rate
changes of 3-4% have to be passed with the majority vote from the fiscal
courts.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-03 which
transfers all sewer systems in the city, including Fowler Creek, to Sanitation
District No. 1. Council Member Taney seconded. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated there is only about 1.5% remaining to collect on the Fowler
Creek Sewer debt and the majority of the balance is from developers whom have
an agreement with the city to pay as the lots sell.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the city finally received the land and water conservation
grant approval for the basketball courts behind the municipal center. He stated
the $75,000 grant will provide two full-sized basketball courts, a paved road
from Peach Drive and a parking lot, all of which should be completed sometime
in 2017. Mr. Moriconi thanked Senator Thayer for his support with the city’s
request.
Mr. Moriconi stated the county wide sign ordinance is under review and PDS is
currently updating it. He stated it should be coming to Council in May or June
in the form of a text amendment. Mr. Moriconi stated PDS is also working on
county wide zoning update and Council can expect to review later this year.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman presented the Annual Audit results for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 2016. He stated it was a clean audit and the year ended with a reserve
large enough to cover over five months’ worth of expenses.
Mayor Reinersman stated six officers attended the inauguration in Washington
D.C. and thanked both the officers that attended as well as the officers that
were here and helped cover extra shifts.
Mayor Reinersman stated there was a meeting with the Home Builders Association,
Arlinghaus, Fischer and Drees regarding residential home design standards. He
stated it was a good meeting and the builders are working on a list of
suggestions on building standards. Council Member Franzen asked if we can re-
zone lots to make them larger. Mayor Reinersman stated it’s possible but is
tough to change residential zones. He stated the property taxes generated on
some starter homes do not cover the long term cost of services. Mr. Moriconi
stated there are other materials that can be used besides brick such as
concrete siding.
Mayor Reinersman stated the public access show City Talk is being produced
again by TBNK. He stated himself along with Mr. Moriconi and other local mayors
will be doing about eight 30 minute shows per year with the first episode
airing in March.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:52 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
March 6, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 6, 2017
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 6,
2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack
Gatlin and Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the February 6, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on February 6,
2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on February 6, 2017. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Deaton. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Police Recognitions - Promotions of Perkins, Young, Boyle and Wood
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation and presented plaques for recent
Police promotions. Robert Perkins has been promoted to Detective, Jeffery Young
to Sergeant, Jacob Boyle to Lieutenant and Russell Wood to Captain. He also
thanked retired Captain Mike Thatcher for his years of service with the city.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-01 - Text Amendment for Small Veterinary Clinic in NC Zone
– 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-01 which is a text
amendment adding Veterinary offices for small animals and small animal clinics
as a permitted use in the NC Zone. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2017-O-01 a
second reading and stated the recommendations from the Kenton County Planning
Commission are to pass the text amendment because it’s reasonable, appropriate
and consistent with the purpose of the NC Zone.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-01 which
is a text amendment adding Veterinary office for small animals and small animal
clinics within the NC Zone. Council Member Aseere seconded. Roll was called and
answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated it’s been a busy Legislative session so changes can be
expected in the near future. He stated he’s noticed an increase of foreclosures
within the city in recent months but the silver lining is delinquent taxes
should be paid soon. Mr. Gatlin stated northern cities within Kenton County are
noticing abandoned houses which are being turned into flop houses and are
rented by the room. He added Kenton County is working with PDS to come up with
a model ordinance to help regulate these situations.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated with recent storms and high winds, he encourages residents
to secure trampolines and portable basketball goals. He stated the Mayor and
himself are involved in new TBNK show called City Talk and it will air at 6:00
p.m. on Thursdays. He stated City Talk will include local Mayors discussing
issues such as zoning, finance and budget.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the updated residential design standards had been
updated with suggestions from the Home Builders Association, Arlinghaus
Builders, Fischer Homes and Drees.
Council Member Franzen suggested changing the verbiage in section C that refers
to the same floor plan to same house front or façade. Council Member Taney
stated she agreed and suggested the verbiage to say front elevation in place of
floor plan. Council Member Franzen stated she would like to see ‘the Zoning
Administrator with the approval of’ the City’s chief administrative official,
added to section E to the waivers section.
Council Member Deaton stated he doesn’t like the residential building standards
or the government telling him how to build his house. He questioned where the
families are going to come from that can afford these expensive homes and where
are the jobs in Northern Kentucky that have an income of $35,000 to $75,000 in
Northern Kentucky. Mayor Reinersman stated current zoning laws already regulate
certain things that can and cannot be done when building a home. He added the
city already has a large inventory of starter homes and he estimates the taxes
collected for a neighborhood with $125,000 houses is not enough to cover the
cost of services for street maintenance and emergency services.
Council Member Franzen questioned how much the increase would be for the
additional brick on homes and Mayor Reinersman stated the building inspector
estimated $5,000 to $8,000. Council Member Aseere stated he feels like we are
pulling the rug out underneath the builders that have intentions of building in
the city and would like to discuss improving the school district or bringing
more businesses rather than dictating how homes are built. Mayor Reinersman
stated the obligation to tax payers to make sure we can sustain and maintain
our city.
There was some discussion about the possibility of increasing the lot sizes up
to half acre. Mayor Reinersman stated it would cause new construction to slow
down and would require a map amendment. Mr. Gatlin stated with removing high
density zones, there could be legal challenges for the city. Council Member
Waite stated most subdivisions have covenants that already dictate construction
requirements. Mayor Reinersman stated these standards will help uniform
building standards to include the subdivisions that do not have covenants.
Council Member Aseere thanked the Mayor for bringing the vinyl restriction down
to 50% from 75%. Mayor Reinersman stated it was an agreed amount after meeting
and receiving input from the builders.
Mr. Gatlin stated Resolution No. 207-R-01 authorized Mr. Moriconi to submit
application for the hearing with the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC)
and if KCPC recommends the text amendment, it will come back to Council for
final approval.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way – Mrs. Cook stated we might be losing young families
that can’t afford these new homes. She stated building standards were already
addressed with the subdivisions off Fowler Creek. Mayor Reinersman stated he
believes it was a zone change and a stone or brick requirement was added with
the approval of the zone change.
Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike – Mr. Cobble stated if the sirens don’t start
going off when we have storms, no one will live in the city. Mayor Reinersman
stated the National Weather Service coded the alert wrong. He stated it was a
critical mistake and they are working to ensure it doesn’t happen again.
Mayor Reinersman stated the Easter Egg Hunt is on Saturday, April 8th at
Memorial Park. He stated Hickory Grove has partnered with the city and taking
this year’s event to a new level with great prizes.
Mayor Reinersman stated a resident in Lakefield notified him regarding a flag
flying in the park that was not lit. He stated the flag was removed with the
help of Public Services Director Dan Koch, Owen Electric installed a
transformer. Mayor stated the light was installed and the flag was able to be
properly displayed.
Council Member Waite stated the Simon Kenton Lady Pioneers basketball team have
made it to the sweet 16 basketball tournament.
Council Member Franzen stated she was proud of the Simon Kenton students for
making it to state including seven swimmers, a wrestler and Odyssey of the
Minds.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Taney to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:17 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
April 3, 2017
City of Independence, Ky.
Minutes of April 3, 2017
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 3,
2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and Eagle Scout Patrick
Hutchinson led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney
and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk
Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the March 6, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on March 6,
2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on March 6, 2017. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Police Recognitions – Swearing in Officers Kyle Wallace and Steven Robinson
Mayor Reinersman swore in Officer Kyle Wallace and Steven Robinson. He stated
Office Wallace comes from the Dry Ridge Police Department and Officer Robinson
comes from the Elsmere Police Department with 14 years of experience.
Mayor Reinersman stated an email was received by the FBI Safe Streets Task
Force which complemented five officers involved in a drug arrest about a year
ago including the investigation, arrest and their testimonies. He stated his
appreciation to Lieutenant Brian Ferayorni, Sergeant Nate Fuson, Officer Travis
Hager, Sergeant Jeff Young and Detective Mark Fielding for all of their hard
work on the case.
Kim Moser, Kentucky State Representative – Legislative Update
Kentucky State Representative Kim Moser addressed Council with some legislative
updates. Mrs. Moser stated the session opened on January 3, 2017 and the next 5
days were spent passing several House Bills. She stated the bills passed
included issues such as right to work, paycheck protection, prevailing wage,
twenty week abortion ban, ultrasound bill, University of Louisville Board
reorganization, legislative retirement transparency bill, charter schools,
education bills including federal mandates for testing and common core math,
medical review panels, defunding Planned Parenthood and mental health
treatment. Mrs. Moser stated she worked hard on the House Bill 333 which deals
with active trafficking, increases penalties and time served, sets prescribing
limits for opioids and aligns federal and state drug scheduling guidelines.
Council Member Franzen asked Mrs. Moser if she could share the list of bills
passed to post on the city’s website. Mrs. Moser stated she would send the list
to Mayor Reinersman. Mayor Reinersman reminded Mrs. Moser about the 536 project
and Mrs. Moser stated it was on her radar.
Proposed Ordinance – Closing proposed street for Elmer Subdivision/Marshall
Road – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which closes a
platted proposed street filed of record for the Elmer Davis Subdivision which
abuts to Marshall Road. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading
and stated the current property owners have requested that the City abandon the
property and close the public way as it serves no purpose. Mr. Gatlin stated
once the street is closed, the Mayor is authorized to execute a deed to
transfer the property of the adjoining property owners.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated letters were sent to the remaining delinquent fowler creek
properties and the city continues to receive payments and are left with only a
handful of remaining delinquent properties.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Personnel Policy will be updated annually. He stated in
addition to budget and financial reports, building permits and police calls are
also now available on the city’s website by clicking on the OpenGov logo. Mr.
Moriconi stated a safety policy and drug free policy are being implemented
which should help reduce the cost to the City for workers compensation
premiums.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Kenton County Planning Commission will be holding
the public hearing for our proposed Residential Design Standards in the next
few days. He stated the hearing gives the public an opportunity to voice their
opinion and encouraged residents to attend and voice their opinion. Mayor
Reinersman stated in addition to the Kenton County Fiscal Court purchasing the
old Bavarian building in Covington, they are also looking at making substantial
improvements to the Courthouse in Independence. He stated there will be a
public Open House on April 17 to display some of the improvement ideas they are
considering.
Mayor Reinersman stated a new service site called Xceligent will provide
available commercial real estate and as well as demographic data for possible
new business owners. He thanked Ken and Marilyn Noll for all they do in the
city and for volunteering regularly with the Police Department.
Council Member Franzen recognized Patrick Hutchinson for his achievement of
making it to state as a Simon Kenton swimmer as well as his work on becoming an
Eagle Scout.
Council Member Waite stated that he wanted to table the idea of recognition for
student athletes as it extends outside of just athletics.
Council Member Aseere stated the restrooms in the parks should be opening soon.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Taney to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:52 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
May 1, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 1, 2017                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 1,
2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack
Gatlin, Police Chief Tony Lucas and Public Services Director Dan Koch.
Approval of the April 3, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on April 3,
2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on April 3, 2017. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proclamation – Student Extra Effort Day – May 15th, 2017
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to recognize May 15, 2017 as Student
Extra Effort Day which recognizes the extra efforts that local students in the
community put forth in extracurricular activities in addition to their
academics.
Proclamation – Independence Hates Heroin Month – June 2017
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to recognize the month of June 2017
as Independence Hates Heroin Month.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-02 - Closing proposed street for Elmer Subdivision/
Marshall Road– 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-02 which closes a
platted proposed street filed of record for the Elmer Davis Subdivision which
abuts to Marshall Road. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2017-O-02 a second
reading and stated the current property owners have requested that the City
abandon the property and close the public way as it serves no purpose. Mr.
Gatlin stated an agreement is in place to share the easement.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-02 which
closes a platted proposed street filed of record for the Elmer Davis
Subdivision which abuts to Marshall Road. Council Member Taney so moved
followed by a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and answered
unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Zoning Ordinance to add Residential Design
Standards – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which amends the
zoning ordinance to add residential design standards for new detached single
family homes. He stated the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) recently
had a public hearing and they did not recommend approval based on their
attorney’s opinion. Mayor Reinersman stated the link to the video of the KCPC
hearing was sent to Council for review.
Brian Miller, 2751 Circleport Drive, Erlanger, KY – Executive Vice President of
the Home Builders Association of Northern Kentucky Brian Miller, stated there
is a price down effect which suggests for every $1,000 you raise the cost of a
home, you price out 1,530 households which can no longer afford the home. Mr.
Miller stated upcoming economic development will bring thousands of jobs paying
$13.00 to $16.00 an hour to Northern Kentucky. He stated growth is currently
stagnant in Kenton County with both single family residences and new commercial
structures. Mr. Miller stated new housing pays for itself with real estate
taxes, occupational taxes and support services. He stated there is a ripple
effect with jobs and occupational taxes, and every home built supports 3.3
jobs.
Mayor Reinersman asked Mr. Miller if he felt like the recommendations and
suggestions of the HBA and local builders were heard and considered during the
meetings with City Officials. Mr. Miller stated the original draft ordinance
was managed down some per their recommendations.
Council Member Deaton stated his concern for the job market and asked Mr.
Miller where the new jobs are coming from and how are people going to afford
building a new home. Mr. Miller stated the HBA is involved in every
comprehensive plan in Northern Kentucky. He stated Amazon Prime will have 2,600
jobs to fill in the upcoming year and 5,000 jobs by 2121. Mr. Miller stated
workforce development works with area high schools and provides adult education
which helps prepare for middle class jobs. He stated over 46,500 jobs will be
needed in the construction industry in the next 10 years.
Council Member Franzen stated she disagrees with Mr. Miller’s statement that
new homes pay for themselves. She stated the city’s budget doesn’t validate his
point and the services of snow removal, police protection, street lights and
the million dollar budget for street repairs isn’t enough to keep up. Council
Member Franzen stated Council tries to do their best not to raise the tax rate
each year and believes there’s a possibility of street assessments in the
future. She stated ten to twenty years ago, Council let every developer come in
and build whatever they wanted and now the city can’t afford to keep up with
the streets. She stated she is representing the current taxpayers of
Independence and Council has a responsibility to say when enough is enough and
stated implementing these design standards may help decrease the need to raise
taxes.
Mr. Miller stated when residents support Independence businesses, it generates
occupational taxes for the city. He stated HBA advocates for the overall
economic health of the community. Mayor Reinersman stated Mr. Miller stated in
the KCPC Meeting that most builders are already building to these proposed
standards. Mr. Miller stated some are building with the proposed design
standards and some are not.
Pam Burton, 6415 Lakearbor Drive, Independence – Mrs. Burton, a homeowner in
the Lakefield subdivision, stated she started the neighborhood Facebook page.
She stated some neighbors are worried about their property values with the
recent addition of starter homes on the same street as their two story, four
bedroom homes. Mrs. Burton stated her favor of the residential design standards
and asked Council to approve the proposed design standards to help provide
better quality homes in the city.
Council Member Aseere stated selfishly he likes the idea of adding building
standards but doesn’t believe the government should tell a private property
owner what they can do with their property. Council Member Deaton stated he
doesn’t agree with having the government telling him that he can’t build a
vinyl home. Mayor Reinersman stated zoning now regulates several items such as
lot and home size, how tall your grass can be, etc. He stated the standards are
simply no more than 50 % vinyl siding and there are other aesthetic features
that can be added to use more vinyl. Mayor Reinersman stated the new
construction permits go through the building inspector for approval, if there’s
an issue, it goes to the Zoning Administrator and City Administrator for
review. Mr. Gatlin stated, if the Zoning Administrator and City Administrator
deny the plan, the next option is going to the Board of Adjustments and the
final appeal step would be circuit court.
Council Member Taney stated we aren’t trying to dictate taste but implement
design standards to help keep current property values up. She stated the extra
$5,000 to $8,000 won’t prohibit someone from getting the loan and would only be
about $25 more a month.
Bob Schroeder – 142 Barnwood Drive, Edgewood, KY – Mr. Schroeder asked if the
discussion was had regarding the possible cost increase of building permits.
Mayor Reinersman stated the cost will remain the same. Mr. Schroeder stated
KCPC’s Attorney Matt Smith‘s stance at the KCPC hearing was that they had no
authority to approve this ordinance based on statute. Mr. Schroeder suggested
to consult with the Attorney General’s office to see what their opinion was
regarding residential design standards. He stated he agrees that these proposed
designs standards is the government regulating aesthetics, not structure.
Council Member Deaton questioned if there was any litigation or cases against
setting residential design standards. Attorney Gatlin stated there haven’t been
any lawsuits where a court said it was illegal for a city to regulate building
standards. Mr. Gatlin stated seven communities in Kenton County currently have
aesthetic design standards and no one has challenged those communities.
Council Member Franzen asked Attorney Gatlin why KCPC’s attorney Matt Smith
believed the building standards were illegal. Mr. Gatlin stated there was no
specific allowance within KRS 100 that discusses aesthetics and Mr. Smith took
the position that you cannot regulate aesthetics from a zoning perspective and
the fact that there is no case in Kentucky that supports zoning aesthetics.
Mr. Gatlin stated looking at KRS 82.082, there is no law against zoning
aesthetics and there hasn’t been one case in Kentucky in regards to design
standards. He stated there are 7 communities in Kenton County that currently
have aesthetic design standards in place and no one has challenged them. Mr.
Gatlin stated zoning aesthetics is not new and it goes back to the 1960s. He
stated the Villa Hills zoning ordinance from 1980 is very similar to what
Independence is proposing and has never been challenged. Mr. Gatlin stated
several other cities such as Fort Mitchell, Covington, Fort Wright and Erlanger
have similar standards, all which have received favorable recommendations from
KCPC.
Mr. Gatlin stated Planning and Development Services (PDS) engaged with American
Planning Association (APA) and did some in-depth research on aesthetics and
discovered there is no case law that affirms zoning aesthetics. He stated KRS
100.203(e) allows planned neighborhood and group housing districts and it does
not place geographic limitations on residential districts. Mr. Gatlin stated
the home rule referenced in KRS 82.082 states a city may exercise any power and
perform any function within its boundaries and is in furtherance of a public
purpose of the city and not in conflict with a constitutional provision or
statute. He stated not one single piece of legal evidence has been received
from the attorneys of the opposing groups of the proposed ordinance to dictate
that the design standards cannot be implemented and he is comfortable moving
forward with the ordinance.
Mayor Reinersman proposed a less restrictive amendment to Section B, by adding
“nor any subdivisions with five or fewer lots”. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading. He stated the draft of KCPC’s minutes is attached to
proposed ordinance and per KRS 100.211, the legislative body shall take final
action upon a proposed map amendment within 90 days of when the KCPC’s final
action upon such proposal.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting an Amended Budget for 2016-2017 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which adopts the
amended budget for the fiscal year 2016-2017. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2017-2018 Budget - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which adopts the
budget for the fiscal year 2017-2018. In his budget address, Mayor Reinersman
stated for the second year in a row, the city will invest one million dollars
into city roads. He stated a 401(a) retirement saving program will be
instituted and the city will match employee retirement contributions up to 3%.
Mayor Reinersman stated the remaining funds necessary to meet the estimated
cost to replace our radios when Kenton County Emergency Dispatch makes the
switch to digital in 2018 have also been budgeted for the upcoming year. He
stated additional items in this budget are capital funds to replace the roof at
the Senior Center, self-funding for the city’s vehicle fleet and building a
reserve for our self-insured health insurance program.
Mayor Reinersman stated he may come back to Council and request reallocating
part of the radio fund to the roads fund if it can be worked out to get Pearl
and Dorothy completed this year and not wait until next year as originally
planned. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the Employee Pay and Classification Plan for
2017-2018 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which adopts the
employee pay and classification plan for the fiscal year 2017-2018.
Council Member Taney stated she reviewed the proposed pay plans and has
concerns regarding several positions’ maximums that were decreased. Mayor
Reinersman stated in previous years, the minimum and maximum ranges were raised
3% each year across the board and comparing our ranges to the Northern Kentucky
Area Development District Salary Survey and several other cities, several
positions’ ranges were lowered. Council Member Taney stated the Chief and
Secretaries were the only ones who decreased within the Police Department. She
stated her concern for the Public Service laborer position with the max
decreased by almost $7,000. There was some discussion from Council and several
members requested copies of the data that was used to compare and helped decide
on the proposed pay scales. Mayor Reinersman stated he will get the data
together and send to Council to review.
Mr. Gatlin stated that after Council receives the data from the Mayor and
Council recommends to raise several maximum pay ranges, it would be ok to
update for a second reading but if ranges were cut, another first would be
required with the proposed changes. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Resolution No. 2017-R-04 – Re-appointment of Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics
Authority Members
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2017-R-04 which re-
appoints Marcus Carey, Robert F. Greene, Darryl Cummins, Carolyn Lainhart,
Robert Sanders, and Tom Quirk and the appointment of Wesley Williams as members
of the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority Enforcement Committee for a
two year term serving from February 1, 2017 through January 31, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-04 to
approve the re-appointments and appointment to the Northern Kentucky Regional
Ethics Authority Enforcement Committee for a two year term. A motion was made
by Council Member Taney, seconded by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and
vote was 4-2 with Council Member Aseere and Council Member Franzen voting no.
Motion carried. 4-2.
Award Bid for Wedgewood and Clubhouse Reconstruction Project
Mayor Reinersman stated bid proposals were opened on April 27, 2017 for the
Wedgewood and Clubhouse Drive reconstruction project. He stated the Engineer’s
estimate for concrete was $944,005 and JPS Construction came in with the lowest
bid of $821,090 and is recommending JPS for the project. He stated there may be
changes to the project with adding additional streets to the project but he
will keep Council informed.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion for approval to award the bid for the
Wedgewood and Clubhouse Drive reconstruction project to JPS Construction for
$821,090. A motion was made by Council Member Franzen, seconded by Council
Member Deaton. Roll was called and answered unanimously. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated beginning this month, Veteran Affairs will be using an
office space in the lower level of the Municipal Center to meet with Veterans
coming back from deployment and assist with their benefits, paperwork, etc.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated he joined forces with several other Mayors to
participate in the Duffle Shuffle campaign which raises awareness and provides
duffle bags filled with necessary items for children transitioning in and out
of foster care. He stated the city building will be a 24/7 drop off center for
the duffle bags and challenged Council and residents to participate in the
campaign.
Mayor Reinersman stated the city will be having a photo contest and the first
place prize will be a table and VIP tickets to this year’s fireworks. He stated
there will also have sub-categories such as Christmas Walk and Independence Day
Celebration.
Mayor Reinersman stated at 7pm on May 17, 2017 is the annual Northern Kentucky
Police Memorial in Covington and invited Council and residents to attend and
pay respects to fallen officers and show support for Law Enforcement. He
reminded residents that Kelly Miller Circus will be in town for four shows on
May 19th and 20th at the Independence Towne Center, tickets available online,
Ace Hardware and the City Building.
Council Member Aseere asked Chief Lucas if a notice to parents could be put on
our social media sites when there are bomb threats at local schools to help
direct parents on the status of the students. Chief Lucas stated in those
situations, the Police Department will partner with the school and put together
a media statement and the Mayor can share on Facebook.
Council Member Taney asked if road closings due to flash floods could be posted
on social media to alert residents. Mayor Reinersman stated Public Services
worked with the state and cleared one of the culvert pipes on Bristow and has
helped with the flooding. He asked Chief Lucas to let him know when one of the
roads are closed so he can post to social media.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 9:22 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
June 5, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 5, 2017                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 5,
2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Brandon Voelker
(filling in for City Attorney Jack Gatlin), Police Chief Tony Lucas and Public
Services Director Dan Koch.
Approval of the May 1, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on May 1, 2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on May 1, 2017. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-03 - Amending Zoning Ordinance to add Residential Design
Standards – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-03 which amends the
zoning ordinance to add residential design standards for new detached single
family homes. He stated the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) recently
had a public hearing and they did not recommend approval based on their
attorney’s opinion. Mr. Voelker read Ordinance No. 2017-O-03.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-03 which
amends the zoning ordinance to add residential design standards for new
detached single family homes. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by
Council Member Taney. Roll was called and the vote was 4-2 with Council Members
Deaton and Council Member Aseere voted no. Motion carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-04 - Adopting an Amended Budget for 2016-2017 – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-04 which adopts the
amended budget for the fiscal year 2016-2017. Mr. Voelker read Ordinance No.
2017-O-04.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-04 which
adopts the amended budget for the fiscal year 2016-2017. Council Member Deaton
so moved, with a second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the vote
was unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-05 - Adopting the 2017-2018 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-05 which adopts the
budget for the fiscal year 2017-2018. Mayor Reinersman stated with the upcoming
year’s budget, the city was able to budget one million dollars toward roads,
implement a 401(a) plan for city employees and keep the tax rate the same as
last year.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-05 which
adopts the budget for the fiscal year 2017-2018. Council Member Engleman so
moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the vote
was unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-06 – Adopting the Employee Pay and Classification Plan for
2017-2018 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-06 which adopts the
employee pay and classification plan for the fiscal year 2017-2018. He stated
the Parks and Recreation Facilitator and Laborer positions have been adjusted
to allow for a 3% increase. Mr. Voelker read Ordinance No. 2017-O-06.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-06 which
adopts the employee pay and classification plan for 2017-2018. Council Member
Deaton so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and
the vote was 4-2 with Council Member Taney and Council Member Aseere voting no.
Motion carried 4-2.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending and replacing Solicitation Ordinances – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which amends and
replaces existing solicitation ordinances 01-10-84, 2-10-77 and 2010-O-05. He
stated the city was approached by an attorney representing a company wanting to
solicit in the city and they stated our current solicitation ordinance was not
legal as well as too restrictive. Mayor Reinersman stated the proposed
ordinance removes the large bond requirement and implements a no knock registry
for residents.
Council Member Taney stated the proposed ordinance requires residents to submit
a complaint of a solicitor knocking on their door in writing and feels like the
resident should be able to call instead. Council Member Franzen asked if a
salesman violates the no knock list, if their license would be denied in the
future. Mr. Voelker responded that the resident can notify the police and an
officer can site the solicitor for violating the ordinance.
Council Member Taney stated she believes the proposed ordinance protects the
peddlers and solicitors and 9:00 p.m. is too late for someone to be knocking on
doors.
Mr. Voelker stated in the federal court system, speech is speech, and
businesses have a right to sell door to door while it’s light outside. Council
Member Taney stated the no knock list should be communicated on the city’s
website, Facebook page, newsletter etc. to make sure to get the word out to
residents. She stated there is vague language that states “the city may
require” and asked if it’s required or not. Council Member Aseere stated he
would like to see the solicitation application, believes the requirement of a
driver’s license could be possible discrimination and questioned the required
letter from a physician for solicitors selling food. Mr. Voelker stated
companies selling food have to be approved by the U.S.D.A.
Council Member Aseere stated the packet was a lot for him to read in two days
before the meeting. Mayor Reinersman stated going forward, he would like to
send a preliminary agenda two Fridays before each Council Meeting so council
has adequate time to review the information and request any additional
documentation. Council Member Franzen stated the proposed ordinance indicates
if a solicitor is convicted of a felony, their license can be revoked and
questioned if the city would be doing continuous criminal checks on solicitors.
Council Member Taney suggested the ordinance require a photo ID while
soliciting. Mr. Voelker stated it may not work to ask companies to provide an
ID badge. Council Member Taney stated the requirement of having an occupational
license from Kenton County is not mentioned in the proposed ordinance. Mr.
Voelker stated the county requires the occupational license in their ordinance
but it could be added as a required document to be submitted with application.
Mr. Voelker gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Map Amendment for Ashford Village – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which amends the
zoning map for approximately 2 acres located at the end of Ashford Road from an
R-RE (a low density residential zone) to a R-1C (suburban residential zone). He
stated the request was submitted by Chad and Elise Seibt and recommended by the
Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC). Mr. Moriconi stated the street ends
and the Seibts own the property and would like to build a home. He stated the
rest of Ashford Village is R-1C so this 2 acre property would be in line with
the adjoining property. Mr. Voelker gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Dan Koch stated he’s worked with Chad and Elise Seibt and they have been given
approval from KCPC to change the zone to R-1C. Mr. Koch stated if the city
vacates the 25 foot by 50 foot parcel to the Seibts, they can build their home
and the city will no longer need to maintain the property.
Proposed Ordinance – Vacate portion of Ashford Village Subdivision – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which closes a
platted “proposed street” at the end of the paved portion of Ashford Road. He
stated upon closure of the road, it would authorize him to execute a deed to
transfer the property to adjoining property owners. Mr. Voelker gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2017-R-05 – Adopting the 401(a) Match Retirement Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2017-R-05 which adopts the
401(a) Match Retirement Plan for city employees effective July 1, 2017. He
stated this match was included in the upcoming budget assuming all employees
participate up to the 3% match. Mr. Voelker read Resolution No. 2017-R-05.
Mr. Aseere stated Exhibit A mentioned in the resolution was not attached. Mayor
Reinersman stated the resolution will be pushed to the July 3, 2017 meeting so
it can include the Exhibit A so Council can review prior to approving the
resolution.
Bill Cobble, 5257 Madison Pike, Independence, KY – Mr. Cobble asked how much of
the taxpayer dollars it would be for the employer match. Mr. Moriconi stated if
all eligible employees participated, it would be around $80,000.
Agreement with Planning and Development Services (PDS) – One Stop Shop
Mr. Moriconi stated nothing is changing for Independence with this new
agreement. He stated according to the previous agreement, some smaller cities
such as Fort Wright and Park Hills were receiving services from PDS for free.
Mr. Moriconi stated the new agreement may save the city $1,000 but doesn’t
change anything else.
Al Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence, KY – Mr. Daly stated he was
appointed to the zoning appeals board and he learned that HB 422 caused a great
change to the process. He stated previously, fees for violations were rarely
collected and now a resident has to file a strong appeal to have their case
reviewed by the board to have fees waived. Mr. Daly stated they are now
enforcing maximum fines and so far this year, over $67,000 worth of liens have
been put on homes with violations.
Council Member Taney made a motion to allow Mayor Reinersman to sign the
updated One Stop Shop Agreement with PDS, Council Member Engelman made a
second. Roll was called and vote was 4-2 with Council Member Franzen and
Council Member Aseere voting no. Motion carried 4-2.
Concrete Contract Extension – Ernst Concrete
Mayor Reinersman stated the contract with Ernst Concrete has expired and needs
to be renewed. He stated the current contract with Ernst is for concrete usage
for city projects. Dan Koch stated this is the last year we can extend with our
current concrete contract with Ernst. He stated he shopped around to other
competitors and the closest bid was $6 more a yard than what Ernst can provide.
Mr. Koch suggested we stay with Ernst.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the concrete contract extension
with Ernst Concrete for the 2017 to 2018 fiscal year. Council Member Franzen so
moved, seconded by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and the vote was
unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Brandon Voelker
Mr. Voelker had nothing to report other than Mr. Gatlin is on vacation and will
return in a couple of days.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the city will be changing workers compensation carriers
which provides a $50,000 savings.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation to everyone who participated the
previous weekend in the neighborhood blitz distributing drug addiction
information door to door throughout the city. He stated Independence’s 175th
birthday party will be on Friday, June 30 and Saturday, July 1 at Memorial Park
for the 4th of July Celebration which will include fireworks, lantern launch
and live music.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 9:22 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
July 3, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 3, 2017                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 3,
2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and City Attorney Jack
Gatlin.
Approval of the June 5, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on June 5, 2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on June 5, 2017. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Kenton County Quick Response Team - Fire Chief Scott Breeze
Fire Chief Scott Breeze presented Council with some information about the Quick
Response Team. He stated the team is composed of a police officer, paramedic
and a drug addiction counselor and do follow up visits with residents that have
overdosed on heroin. Chief Breeze gave Council an update on the response team
and provided statistics regarding heroin use in the city.
Proclamation – Michael Dominach
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to recognize Michael Dominach for
celebrating his 10th year in Independence with his business of Dominach’s
Taekwondo as well as being an active volunteer in the city.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-07 – Amending and Replacing Solicitation Ordinances – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-07 which amends and
replaces existing solicitation ordinances 01-10-84, 2-10-77 and 2010-O-05. He
stated the city was approached by an attorney representing a company wanting to
solicit in the city and they stated our current solicitation ordinance was not
legal as well as too restrictive. Mayor Reinersman stated a change made to the
ordinance since the first reading was adding a city issued photo ID badge. He
stated a zero knock registry will also be implemented.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2017-O-07 a second reading and stated non-profit
organizations and political candidates are exempt from obtaining a solicitation
permit. He stated the only changes from the first reading to the second reading
are a requiring an identification badge, color passport photos and listing the
license plate number instead of the vehicle identification number # of the
vehicle used to conduct business.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-07 which
amends and replaces existing solicitation ordinances 01-10-84, 2-10-77 and
2010-O-05. Council Member Taney so moved, with a second by Council Member
Engelman. Roll was called and the vote was unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-08 – Ashford Village Map Amendment – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-08 which amends the
zoning map for approximately 2 acres located at the end of Ashford Road from an
R-RE (a low density residential zone) to a R-1C (suburban residential zone). He
stated the request was submitted by Chad and Elise Seibt and recommended by the
Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC). Mr. Moriconi stated the street ends
and the Seibts own the property and would like to build a home. He stated the
rest of Ashford Village is R-1C and the 2 acre property would be in line with
the adjoining property.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2017-O-08 a second reading and stated it was
recommended by Planning and Development Services as well as the Kenton County
Planning Commission.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-08 which
amends the zoning map for approximately 2 acres located at the end of Ashford
Road from an R-RE to a R-1C. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by
Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the vote was unanimous. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-09 – Vacate portion of Ashford Village Subdivision – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-09 which closes a
platted “proposed street” at the end of the paved portion of Ashford Road. He
stated upon closure of the road, it would authorize him to execute a deed to
transfer the property to adjoining property owners. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance
No. 2017-O-09 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-09 which
closes a platted “proposed street” at the end of the paved portion of Ashford
Road. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Aseere.
Roll was called and the vote was unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2017-R-05 – Adopting the 401(a) Match Retirement Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Resolution No. 2017-R-05 which adopts the
401(a) Match Retirement Plan for city employees effective July 1, 2017. He
stated the employer match of up to 3% will be a nice benefit to attract and
retain good employees. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2017-R-05.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-05 which
adopts the 401(a) Match Retirement Plan for city employees effective July 1,
2017. Council Member Taney so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite.
Roll was called and the vote was unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Richardson Road Map Amendment - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council a proposed ordinance which amends the
zoning map for an area of 6.78 acres located between Briarwood Drive to the
east and Dixie Highway to the west from an IP (Industrial Park) and R-2 (PUD, A
multi-family planned unit development zone) to a R-1D (a suburban single-family
residential zone).
Council Member Taney stated her concerns regarding giving up any industrial
land and asked about sub-dividing the property. Mayor Reinersman stated the
small piece of land that is zoned IP couldn’t be developed as industrial due to
the topography and it can’t be sub-divided without road frontage. Mr. Moriconi
stated the current property owner is trying to add onto their house and aren’t
able to get the permits with it zoned industrial. He stated the property is
rendered useless the way that it is currently zoned.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated the Planning
and Development Services did not approve the map amendment because it was
taking away industrial zone but it was approved by the Kenton County Planning
Commission (KCPC) . He stated council has the right to overturn the decision of
the KCPC for 90 days from June 1, 2017.
Award Bid for Dump Truck
Mr. Moriconi stated bids were received from Fuller Ford and Fyda Freightliner
for a new dump truck for the Public Services department. He stated Fuller
Ford’s bid was the lowest bid at $73,247 in comparison to Fyda Freightliner
with $86,560. Mr. Moriconi stated the Public Services Director Dan Koch would
like to go with Fuller Ford’s bid at $73,247 with KE Rose doing the detail
package and includes free lifetime oil changes with Fuller Ford.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve the bid award to Fuller Ford for
$73,247, Council Member Taney with a second. Roll was called and the vote was
unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated there were several new laws were passed by legislature and
went into effect on July 1, 2017 such as blue lives matter law which
strengthens any crimes targeted against police or first responders, will be
considered hate crimes and will strength the penalties. He stated the other law
is the pain pill bill which limits pain pill prescriptions to a 3 day supply.
Mr. Gatlin stated the franchise fees have now been approved and has opened the
door for allowable fees on items such as mini cell phone towers.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the streets on Clubhouse, Wedgewood and Dorothy are being
torn out and residents have had issues with receiving their mail and he’s
handling it with the post office.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated there were record crowds for the 4th of July
Celebration estimated at 30,000 people. He stated it’s inevitable to have
traffic when thousands of people leave at the same time. Mayor Reinersman
stated the police did a great job and traffic was cleared out by midnight.
Mayor Reinersman stated the purpose of council meetings are to conduct business
of the city and privileges of the floor are limited to comment on agenda issues
only.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:00 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
August 7, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 7, 2017                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 7,
2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, led the Pledge of
Allegiance as well as a moment of silence. Roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Patricia Taney
and Greg Waite. Council Members Amy Engelman and Carol Franzen were absent.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and
City Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the July 3, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting on July 3, 2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on July 3, 2017. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Smart Meters – Duke Energy – Rhonda Whitaker and Bob Reis
Rhonda Whitaker introduced Bob Reis, the Manager of Field Meter Deployment to
discuss the upcoming smart meter project. Bob Reis stated smart meters have two
way communication capability over the cellular network and will be read and
updated every 15 minutes. He stated Duke customers can receive usage alerts,
pick their own due date and the new meters lower the risk of human error from
manual meter reads, provide faster service for remote connection and
disconnection and reduce environmental impact and safety risk exposure. Mr.
Reis stated 120 communication devices will be installed on existing Duke Energy
poles and will begin at the end of August and should be complete by the end of
September 2018. He stated residents will receive a postcard letting them know a
contractor will be out to change out the meter and the contractors are required
to knock on the door prior to installation to let the resident know they are
changing out the meter. Mr. Reis stated along with the meter change out, there
will be a brief delay of service – no longer than a minute.
Zoning/Code Enforcement Process Overview – Megan Bessey, Code Enforcement
Officer
Megan Bessey stated her inspections are prompted by anonymous complaints she
receives from residents. She stated if a violation exists, she will take a
photo and open a case. Ms. Bessey stated the most common violations are outdoor
storage, tall grass/weeds, inoperable vehicles, boats, campers, trailers and
other recreational vehicles improperly parked or stored. She stated opening a
case generates a notice of violation which is mailed first class to the
property owner, the resident has 2 weeks to abate the issue and she will re-
inspect after 2 weeks. Ms. Bessey stated if the issue is abated, the case is
closed; if the violation still exists, a second notice of violation with
additional time is given or the first citation could be issued to the property
owner. She stated the first violation fine is $100, second is $200 and third
and subsequent offenses are $400 and if the final order is not paid, a lien
will be filed against the property. Ms. Bessey stated cases can be followed and
filed on the website: www.etrackit.psdkc.org . She stated 128 cases have been
opened since January and 63 are currently open.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-10 – Richardson Road Map Amendment – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented to Council Ordinance No. 2017-O-10 which amends the
zoning map for an area of 6.78 acres located between Briarwood Drive to the
east and Dixie Highway to the west from an IP (Industrial Park) and R-2 (PUD, A
multi-family planned unit development zone) to a R-1D (a suburban single-family
residential zone). He presented a power point presentation to Council to
highlight the area and topography of the property being discussed. Mr. Waite
stated he walked the property himself and the storage facility was interested
until they found out it would cost over $500,000 just to bring in dirt.
Ben Hueser, 4272 Richardson Road, Independence, KY - Mr. Hueser stated
Beechgrove Storage was interested in purchasing the property to expand the
storage business but didn’t want to spend $500,000 to move dirt to get the
topography where it needed to be to expand the business. He stated the bridge
wasn’t conducive for high traffic due to commercial use.
Council Member Taney asked Mr. Hueser why he didn’t first go to the Board of
Adjustments to seek approval for non-conforming use for what he wanted to do to
his property. Mr. Hueser stated there were necessary repairs to the front of
the house and he also wanted to add onto the house and add a bathroom. Rob
Himes with PDS stated the zone change made it non-conforming and the zoning
ordinance states non-conforming use may not be expanded or enlarged and the
Board of Adjustment would not be able to offer any relief. Mr. Himes stated the
Board of Adjustments couldn’t have granted because it was already non-
conforming because it’s being used as residential in an industrial zone. Jack
Gatlin stated a resident has the right to appeal with the Board of Adjustments
but the appeal would be based on interpretation of an ordinance and stated this
one is crystal clear and the attorney would likely not allow the appeal in this
situation.
Council Member Taney made a motion to postpone the vote until the special
meeting on August 28, 2017 as two council members were absent. Council Member
Aseere made a second. Roll was called and the vote was 2-2 with no votes from
Council Members Deaton and Waite. Mayor Reinersman voted no to break the tie
and voted against tabling the vote until the special meeting on August 28,
2017. Motion did not carry 2-3.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2017-O-10 a second reading. Mayor Reinersman
asked for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-10 which amends the zoning
map for an area of 6.78 acres located between Briarwood Drive to the east and
Dixie Highway to the west from an IP (Industrial Park) and R-2 (PUD, a multi-
family planned unit development zone) to a R-1D (a suburban single-family
residential zone). Council Member Deaton made a motion to approve Ordinance No.
2017-O-10, seconded by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the vote was
2-2 with no votes from Council Members Aseere and Taney. Motion did not carry
with a tie vote of 2-2. With the ordinance not passing, the city did not take
action against the Kenton County Planning Commission's recommendation to
approve the zone change.
Resolution No. 2017-R-06 – Hazard Mitigation Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2017-R-06 which adopts the Northern
Kentucky Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan. Mr. Moriconi stated this allows the
city to be able to receive FEMA if we ever need emergency funds and is all
handled through Kenton County and doesn’t cost the city anything. Mr. Gatlin
read Resolution No. 2017-R-06.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-06 which
adopts the Northern Kentucky Regional Mitigation Plan. Council Member Waite so
moved, with a second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and votes were
unanimous. Motion carried 4-0.
Resolution No. 2017-R-07 – MRA Cooperative Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2017-R-07 which adopts and approves
the execution of a Municipal Road Aid agreement between the city, the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
Municipal Aid and Fund which has an apportionment of $489,134.55 for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 2017. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2017-R-07.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-07 which
adopts and approves the Municipal Road Aid Cooperative Program Agreement.
Council Member Aseere so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was
called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried 4-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated the Kenton County Planning Commission is working on an
updated sign ordinance and expects it to be ready for a first reading in the
next couple of months. He stated delinquent property owners for Fowler Creek
were sent a letter a few months ago and only a few thousand dollars remain
outstanding. Mr. Gatlin stated foreclosures are way down this year versus last
year and there are only two code enforcement liens on properties in the city.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the downtown sidewalks have been delayed due to required
temporary easements and telephone poles that need to be moved. He stated
projected start date is estimated for spring of 2018.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated a zero-knock list has been incorporated with the
passage of the updated solicitation ordinance. He demonstrated how to register
on the city’s website to be on the zero knock list.
Mayor Reinersman stated the top 25 taxpayers in the city cover about a third of
the city’s revenue with payroll and occupational taxes. He shared the top 10
taxpayers and stated the Kenton County Board of Education is the highest tax
payer in the city.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Deaton and
seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:22 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
August 28, 2017
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 28, 2017                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
28, 2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, led the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John
Deaton, Carol Franzen, and Patricia Taney. Council Members Amy Engelman and
Greg Waite were absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi,
City Clerk Gina Gabbard and City Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special meeting of Council was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2017 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Resolution No. 2017-R-08 – Supporting the Separation of the County Retirement
System from the Kentucky Retirement System
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2017 Property Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts the 2017 property
tax rates. He stated the county re-assessed property values this year and he
proposed the tax rate stay at $.271 for each one hundred dollars of the value
and the personal property rates at $.642 for each one hundred dollars of the
value. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated the
discounts still apply if paid early as well as a penalty plus interest.
Council Member Taney asked what the additional revenue would be for the same
rate as well as the comp rate compared to last year. Mayor Reinersman stated
with keeping the rate the same as last year, it will bring in an additional
$30,000. Council Member Aseere asked how often the Kenton County PVA (Property
Valuation Association) re-assess properties in Independence. Mr. Moriconi
stated they assess every four years but may re-assess with building permits are
issued for additions, decks, etc. Mayor Reinersman stated when a house sells,
it can also be re-assessed based on the sales price of the home.
Resolution No. 2017-R-08 – Supporting the Separation of the County Retirement
System from the Kentucky Retirement System
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2017-R-08 which supports the
separation of the County Retirement System (CERS) from the Kentucky Retirement
System (KRS). He stated last month, the KRS Board of Trustees recommended
cities increase their contributions to 20-44% for employees participating in
the system. Mayor Reinersman stated he asked our Finance Director to run the
numbers and the cost would be over $300,000. He stated the separation of CERS
from KRS would mean local control of local pensions and would ensure the needs
of the CERS are met so it can continue its current path of growth for years to
come.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-08 which
supports the separation of CERS from the KRS. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Taney. Roll was called and the vote was
unanimous. Motion carried, 4-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:27 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
September 11, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 11, 2017               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
11, 2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, led the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John
Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and City
Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the August 7, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on August
7, 2017. Council Member Taney stated the name of the presenter in the paragraph
regarding Duke Energy’s smart meters should have been Rhonda Whitaker, not Mike
Whitaker. Ms. Gabbard noted the correction for the minutes.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes with
Council Member Taney’s suggested change for the Regular Meeting held on August
7, 2017. Council Member Deaton so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite.
Roll was called with 5 ayes; Council Member Franzen abstained. Motion carried
5-0.
Approval of the August 28, 2017 Special Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the special meeting held on August
28, 2017. Council Member Taney stated ‘and the Mayor’ needed to be added to the
first paragraph of the tax rate ordinance to clarify it was the Mayor proposing
the tax rate stay the same, not the county. She stated in the second paragraph
of the tax rate ordinance, she asked what the ‘additional revenue would be for
the same rate as well as the comp rate compared to last year’. Ms. Gabbard
noted the correction for the minutes.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes for the Special
Meeting held on August 28, 2017 with Council Member Taney’s suggested changes
in the tax rate ordinance paragraphs. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Taney. Roll was called and answered unanimously.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proclamation – Ellen Aleda Smallwood
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to recognize September 17, 2017 as
Aleda Smallwood Day. He stated Ms. Smallwood is a credit to the community and
is a 60 plus year resident and supports local, national and international
missionaries.
Ordinance No. 2017-O-11 – Adopting 2017 Property Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2017-O-11 which adopts the 2017
property tax rates. He proposed the tax rate stay at $.271 for each one hundred
dollars of the value and the personal property rates at $.642 for each one
hundred dollars of the value. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a second
reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2017-O-11 which
adopts the 2017 property tax rates. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 6-0.
Surplus Property – Computer Equipment
Mayor Reinersman stated extra miscellaneous computer equipment has been
accumulating and needed to be declared surplus property. Chris Moriconi stated
the computer equipment which included monitors, desktop scanners, towers, etc.
were obsolete and would be recycled with local computer recycling company.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to declare the computer equipment surplus
property. Council Member Deaton so moved, with a second by Council Member
Waite. Roll was called and the vote was unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated recently a bill passed regarding prayer in meetings and it
was a victory for religion.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated United Parcel Service (UPS) sent a letter stating they may
utilize road worthy golf carts for distribution in subdivisions within the city
during the upcoming holiday season. He stated PODS would store the packages and
golf carts would deliver the packages on city streets with a speed limit of 35
mph or less.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Farmers Market was the first stop on
the upcoming Kenton County Fall Harvest Tour which is on Saturday, September
16, 2017. He stated the state retirement was broken and the current proposed
rates by the Kentucky State Retirement Board would cost the city an additional
$300,000+ for the 2017-2018 year. Mayor Reinersman thanked the Police
Department for their recent efforts including the collection for hurricane
victims.
Chief Lucas stated the Police Department collected over 13,200 pounds of items
as well as $750 which started a fund for the Houston’s Fraternal Order of
Police Offices that were displaced by the recent hurricanes.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:36 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
October 2, 2017
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 2, 2017               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
2, 2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, led the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John
Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and City
Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the September 11, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on
September 11, 2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on September 11, 2017. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Proclamation and Key to the City– Vic Ponzer
Mayor Reinersman presented a proclamation and a Key to the City for 50+ year
resident for Vic Ponzer to recognize and thank him for his service to the city.
Vic’s son Greg Ponzer accepted the awards on Vic’s behalf.
Resolution No. 2017-R-09 - Approval to Enter into Lawsuit vs Kentucky
Retirement System
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2017-R-09 which approves the Mayor to
enter into the lawsuit with the City of Ft. Wright versus the Board of Trustees
of the Kentucky Retirement Systems in Court Case No. 14-CI-1259. Mr. Gatlin
read Resolution No. 2017-R-09.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-09 which
approves the Mayor to enter the lawsuit against the Board of Trustees of the
Kentucky Retirement Systems. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by
Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2017-MO-01 – Amending the Personnel Policies and Procedure
Manual
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2017-MO-01 –Amending the
Personnel Policies and Procedure Manual. He stated a section under “Retirement
Plan” was added to addresses the availability of the 401(k) and 457 plans for
employees to contribute to as well as the 401(a) plan which the employer may
match employee contributions. Mayor Reinersman stated a purchasing policy was
also added. Mr. Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2017-MO-01.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No, 2017-MO-01
which amends the Personnel Policies and Procedure Manual. Council Member Deaton
so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the
votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated Planning and Development Services (PDS) has submitted the
application for the updated sign regulations to the Kenton County Planning
Commission for review and it’s expected to be recommended.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Northern Kentucky Water District has hired Rye
Engineering to do some leak detection services throughout the city.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Miss Independence Pageant is on Friday, December
1st is the Santa 5k and Christmas Walk is on Saturday, December 2nd which
includes the lighted Christmas parade. He stated the 4th Annual Independence
Ball is on Saturday, November 11th.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:31 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
December 4, 201
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 4, 2017               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
4, 2017 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, led the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John
Deaton, Amy Engelman (arrived at 7:10pm), Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and
Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the October 2, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on October
2, 2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on October 2, 2017. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Sign Regulations – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends current sign
regulations. He stated there have been lawsuits regarding current sign
regulations within various cities of Kenton County; and Planning and
Development Services (PDS) have created unified regulations. Mr. Gatlin gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated the changes made to the
regulations have already been approved by the Kenton County Planning
Commission.
Resolution No. 2017-R-10 – Authorization to Foreclose on 4060 Richardson Road
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2017-R-10 which authorizes the Mayor
to sign and initiate the foreclosure process for 4060 Richardson Road. He
stated the property is an unsafe structure, has excessive fines, delinquent
taxes, unsightly storage as well as other code violations. Mr. Gatlin read
Resolution No. 2017-R-10.
Council Member Taney questioned the size of the lot and the city’s plan for the
property. Mr. Moriconi stated it’s approximately a quarter of an acre. Mayor
Reinersman stated it’s an eye sore and needs to be cleaned up. He stated some
options are to auction the property or to expand the city’s public services
facilities with the adjoining property. Mr. Gatlin stated the current owners
have abandoned the property and the lienholders do not have an interest in
taking it back.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2017-R-10 which
approves the Mayor to sign and initiate the foreclosure process for 4060
Richardson Road. Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second by Council
Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-
0.
Executive Order No. 2017-EO-03 – Reappointment of Mayor Reinersman to the OKI
Board of Directors
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2017-EO-03 which reappoints
Mayor Reinersman to the OKI Board of Directors for the 2018 calendar year.
Executive Order No. 2017-EO-04 – Reappointment of Maura Snyder to the Kenton
County Planning Commission
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order 2017-EO-04 which reappoints Maura
Snyder to the Kenton County Planning Commission for a 4 year term which begins
on January 1, 2018 and ends on December 31, 2021.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the city building’s parking lot has been designated a safe
selling spot for web-based sales transactions and a green sign is posted to
notify residents. He stated the draft audit is complete and should be ready to
present at the January or February meeting. Mr. Moriconi stated Harris Pike is
legally listed as Harris Road and an ordinance may be necessary in the future
to change Road to Pike. He stated Planning and Development Services (PDS) hired
a consultant to help simplify and remove duplications within the Z-21 zone. He
stated the first step is putting together a draft assessment and then will be
personalized to each city.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated this year’s Christmas Walk was a great success and
thanked the Police Department, City Staff, the Explorers, Independence Business
Association, downtown businesses and residents. He stated McKenzie Hill was
crowned the new Miss Independence in this year’s pageant.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
2018 Minutes
January 8, 2018
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 8, 2018               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
8, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, led the
Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John
Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City
Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the December 4, 2017 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on December
4, 2017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on December 4, 2017. Council Member Engelman so moved,
with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Introduction of the 2018 Miss Independence – McKenzie Hill
Mayor Reinersman introduced the new Miss Independence, McKenzie Hill. He stated
she won the pageant held on Friday, December 1, 2017 and will be representing
the city during the 2018 calendar year.
WODA Development – Bryce Ridge Apartments
Andy Videkovich, the Current Planning Manager with Planning and Development
Services, stated the plan being presented for Bryce Ridge Apartments is a stage
2 plan review within the Gateway Mixed Use Zone (GMU). He stated there are
several standards that have to be met within the GMU zone such as parking,
streets, adjoining tracks and sidewalks, pedestrian network, building location,
building architecture, signage and lighting. Mr. Videkovich stated there will
be no direct access from McCullum it will come off of the access point of
Courthouse Crossing. He stated there are 6 buildings in the plan will be two
stories and will have 1-3 bedroom units. Mr. Videkovich stated there would also
be a community building and a playground. He stated that PDS staff has given a
favorable recommendation with the condition that the street connection to the
adjacent property to the west would be aligned with Courthouse Crossing and
will provide a safer option for pedestrian and better traffic flow. Mr.
Videkovich stated there is supporting information that would also be required
for the zoning approval such as internal streets, landscaping, architecture
details, signage and off-street parking.
Cliff Ashburner, Attorney with Dinsmore & Shohl LLP, stated he is representing
the Woda Group with the Bryce Ridge Apartment project for McCullum Drive. Mr.
Ashburner stated they agree with the staff’s recommendation other than the
changing of the access point because it would cause a reduction of 3 units. He
stated this property would be a transition from existing commercial properties
to future properties.
Council Member Franzen stated apartments were not the intention of the zone,
the intent was to have apartments over commercial space or some other mixed use
of the space. Council Member Aseere stated the way the entrance is proposed,
future property owners behind this development would have to drive through the
apartment complex to get to their property and could deter future development
and suggests a straight contiguous road. Mayor Reinersman stated there are
limited opportunities for commercial use within the city and having these
apartments would take away commercial opportunities. Council Member Waite
stated his safety concerns for the residents within the proposed apartments.
Tammy Stansbury, VP with the Woda Group – Ms. Stansbury stated the adjacent
property owner was not interested in selling the property and if Council would
approve with moving the roadway to make it contiguous, then they would adjust
their plans accordingly. Mr. Ashburner stated multi-family units are a
permitted use within the GMU zone and the Woda Group has offered to comply with
PDS and Council’s recommendations.
Mr. Gatlin stated council can decide on the intent of the zone and has the
authority to approve the development plans. Council Member Taney stated the
application submitted wasn’t complete and doesn’t include the landscaping plan
or materials used and she doesn’t feel like council can vote and approve the
plan if the application isn’t complete.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-01 to
approve the stage 2 plans for the Woda Group’s Bryce Ridge Apartments
development. Council Member Aseere made a motion to table the issue and give
the Woda Group another opportunity to return with a complete set of plans
addressing the roadway concern. Council Member Taney seconded. Roll was called
and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-01 – Amending Sign Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-01 which amends current sign
regulations. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-01 a second reading and
stated the changes made to the regulations have already been approved by the
Kenton County Planning Commission.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-01 which
amends the current sign regulations. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Reveres Crossing Map Amendment – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which amends the zoning map of
four partial lots at the end of Boston Lane from an R-1A zone to R-1C zone. Mr.
Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2018-R-01 – Stage II for Bryce Ridge Apartments
Mayor Reinersman stated the issue was tabled and council will give the Woda
Group an opportunity to return to provide complete plans for the development.
Executive Order No. 2018-EO-01 – Reappointment to the Planning and Development
Services Council
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2018-EO-01 which reappoints
Mayor Reinersman to the as the primary representative and Council Member
Franzen as the alternate representative to the Planning and Development
Services Council.for the 2018 calendar year.
Declare Surplus Property – City Vehicles
Mayor Reinersman presented council with a list of 5 vehicles which include 3
2009 Dodge Chargers, a 2010 Dodge Charger and a 2006 Ford F650 truck. He stated
the vehicles will be placed for auction on Govdeals.com.
Council Member Waite made a motion to declare the 5 city vehicles as surplus
property. Council Member Deaton made a second. Roll was called and votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated there are still significant concerns regarding
retirement including the city’s employer contributions increasing $363,000 in
the upcoming year. He stated the Mayors group recently met with several state
representatives and main points of discussion were for the representative to
suggest a phase-in approach over the next 3-4 years with 10% maximum and keep
the possibility of the County Employees Retirement System (CERS) separating
from Kentucky Retirement System (KRS).
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:30 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
February 5, 2018
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 5, 2018               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
5, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, students
from Dixie Heights led the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led
the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg
Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Council Member Amy Engelman was not present.
Approval of the January 8, 2018 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on January
8, 2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on January 8, 2018. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 5-0.
Indian Ridge Apartments
City Administrator Chris Moriconi mentioned Blair Properties will be at the
March meeting to address council regarding their request for the city to vacate
Apartment Drive, which happens to be a city street. He also stated the builders
plan to remove existing buildings and re-build new apartment homes.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-02 – Reveres Crossing Map Amendment – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-02 which amends the zoning map
of four partial lots at the end of Boston Lane from an R-1A zone to R-1C zone.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-02 a second reading and stated the
amendment was recommended by the staff with Planning and Development Services
as well as the Kenton County Planning Commission.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-02.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Aseere. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2018-R-01- Foreclose on 360 Sterling Road
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-R-01 which authorizes Mayor
Reinersman to foreclose on the property located at 360 Sterling Road. Mr.
Moriconi discussed the state of the property. Mr. Gatlin stated the Board of
Adjustments will be approving the demolition at their next meeting and allows
the city to foreclose on the property and would allow the city to recover some
of the expense.
Council Member Taney questioned current ownership and the size of the property.
Mayor Reinersman stated the current owners listed are Delbert and Thelma
Marksberry and the property is just over a half an acre. Mr. Gatlin read
Resolution No. 2018-R-01.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-01.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Deaton. Roll
was called and Council Members Franzen, Deaton, Waite, and Aseere approved.
Council Member Taney voted no. Motion carried, 4-1.
Resolution No. 2018-R-02 –Withdrawal from State Telecommunications Hold
Harmless Fund
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-02 regarding the withdrawal
from state telecommunications hold harmless fund. Mr. Moriconi stated there
would be no increase to citizens.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-02.
Council Member Aseere so moved with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was
called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2018-R-03 – Temporary Sidewalk Easement for 5306 Madison Pike
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-03 regarding the temporary
sidewalk easement for 5306 Madison Pike. He stated the city was issued a grant
and with receiving federal funds, we are required to obtain temporary easements
for the properties involved with the new sidewalks. Mayor Reinersman stated it
has been difficult obtaining the temporary easement for 5306 Madison Pike. Mr.
Gatlin stated the consultant suggested we filed suits against the heirs of the
property and their attorney has filed some objections.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-03.
Council Member Waite so moved with a second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was
called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-01 – Reappointment to the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-01 to reappoint Al Daly
to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board through December 31, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-01.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was
called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Executive Order No. 2018-EO-02 – Declaring Level 1 Snow Emergency January 12th-
13th 2018
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2018-EO-02 which declared a
Level 1 snow emergency from 2:00 p.m. on January 12th through 4:30 p.m. on
January 13th.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin provided an update regarding the lawsuit initiated by the City of Ft
Wright against the Trustees of the Kentucky Retirement System (KRS). He stated
additional cities have joined the suit and expects a ruling by mid-summer.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated Planning and Development Services (PDS) will attend the
March Council Meeting to discuss and answer questions regarding the Z-21 zone.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman presented the annual audit ending June 30, 2017. He stated it
was a good audit and there were no issues. Finance Director, Terri Hudson,
stated there were no audit adjustments or notes.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to accept the annual audit ending June 30,
2017. Council Member Waite so moved with a second by Council Member Deaton.
Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Mayor Reinersman expressed his appreciation the volunteers that help the Police
Department throughout the year and the Police Secretary Catherine Weger for
coordinating the projects and volunteers. He stated the 536 project is in four
pieces and has been pushed back again until 2020.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:30 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
March 5, 2018
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 5, 2018               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 5,
2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, and led the Pledge of
Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and
the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack
Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the February 5, 2018 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on February
5, 2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on February 5, 2018. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 6-0.
Z21 Update
Andy Videkovich from Planning and Development Services (PDS) presented an
update on the Z21 project. Mr. Videkovich stated the Z21 project will reduce
the number of nonconformities and simplify and consolidate zoning districts. He
stated phase one has been completed and the additional phases should be
completed by 2020.
Proposed Ordinance – Indian Ridge Apartments – Vacating Apartment Road – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which allows the city to
vacate Apartment Road. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Scott Huber - Engineer with Abercrombie and Associates, 377 Compton Rd Suite
120, Cincinnati, OH 45201 stated he represented the Indian Ridge Apartments
property owner and answered council’s questions. Mr. Huber stated the .2 acre
property would be used as a front yard set-back and the city would no longer
have to be maintain the road.
Resolution No. 2018-R-04 - Residential Design Standards
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-04 which defines ‘brick wrap’
by adopting the residential design standards. He stated with the approval of
this resolution, the R1-C PUD zone would be subject to the residential design
standards that were adopted by Ordinance No. 2017-O-03 in regards to the
question of what is brick wrap.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-04 to
define brick wrap by referencing residential design standards. Council Member
Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and
the votes were split. Council Members Franzen, Engelman and Waite voted in
favor and Council Members Deaton, Taney and Aseere voted against the
resolution. Motion failed, 3-3.
Resolution No. 2018-R-05 – Apple Valley Stage II
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-05 which would conditionally
approve the Stage II Development Plan for Apple Valley Apartments. Mr. Gatlin
discussed the legalities on State II plans and stated Council will only be
voting on whether the Stage II Plans are in compliance with the previous
ordinance and requirements.
Andy Videkovich, with PDS, stated the submitted Stage II Development Plan has
been favorably recommended with several conditions including submission of a
landscape plan with planting detail, a photometric plan, building height
information, pedestrian connection, details on any fences and/or walls and a
provision for a secondary street stub be made at the southern end of the
parcel. Council Members Taney and Aseere shared concerns of the roadways within
the Apple Valley complex. David Knoll, co-owner of Apple Valley Apartment
Complex, stated minor repairs have been made and the roads will resurfaced
after construction of the new units. Mr. Knoll stated they are willing to meet
all of recommended conditions set by PDS.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-05 for
approval of the Stage II Development Plan for Apple Valley Apartments. Council
Member Deaton so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was called
and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2018-R-06 – Meadow Glen Stage II
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-06 which would conditionally
approve the Stage II Development Plan for Meadow Glen subdivision.
Andy Videkovich with PDS, stated there have been several changes to the
original Stage I Plans which Council approved with 16 conditions back in 2004.
He stated PDS gave an unfavorable recommendation for the Stage II Development
Plan for the addition of 99 single family lots in the R-1C PUD zone in the
Meadow Glen subdivision. Mr. Videkovich stated there are several deficiencies
such as side yard setbacks, pedestrian access to Wolsing Woods, minimum off
street parking and lack of Homeowners Association but the two major concerns
are the rear yard setbacks and greenbelt restriction along Webster Road. He
stated if they aren’t addressed, it could have a significant impact to the
design of the development. Mr. Videkovich stated the rear yard setbacks are
showing 25 feet when it should be 50 feet and that is the main reason for the
unfavorable recommendation.
David Stroup from Grand Communities Limited 3940 Olympic Blvd Suite 100,
Erlanger, KY  stated they have agreed to every suggested condition by PDS. He
stated 99 new homes will be built, then an additional 51 homes and at that
point, they are required to widen Webster Road and create a secondary access
point.
Mr. Gatlin stated two resolutions have been drafted, one is a conditional
approval of the plans with acceptance of the recommended conditions from PDS
and one is to deny per PDS’ unfavorable recommendation. Andy Videkovich stated
for the developer to meet the rear yard setback condition they would not be
able to build on the 10-12 lots that back up to Webster Road as there is not
enough room to satisfy the 50 foot requirement.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-06 which
conditionally authorizes and approves the Stage II Development Plan for Meadow
Glen subdivision. Council Member Deaton so moved with the 6 conditions stated
in the resolution, with a second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and
the votes were tallied. All voted yes with the exception of Council Member
Taney. Motion carried, 5-1.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin introduced Jeremy Pruitt, stating Mr. Pruitt is a third year law
student and will be an attorney with Gatlin Voelker LLC once he graduates.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated door to door solicitors should be registered and have a
city issued permit lanyard. He stated if they knock on your door and do not
have a permit, call Kenton County Dispatch.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman updated council on pensions and the 536 Kentucky Road project.
Council Member Waite stated he received a question regarding the flooding on
Bristow Road. Mayor Reinersman stated the city’s Public Services will be
checking the culvert on a weekly basis to help try and keep it clear until the
536 Project is completed.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 9:00 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
April 2, 2018
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of April 2, 2018               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 2,
2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, and led the Pledge of
Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and
the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, and Greg Waite. Council Member Patricia Taney was not
present. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Mayor Reinersman recognized previous Mayor Marion Schadler with a moment of
silence due to his recent passing and provided some highlights of his life.
Approval of the March 5, 2018 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on March 5,
2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on March 5, 2018. Council Member Engelman so moved, with a
second by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 5-0.
Operation Honor
Mayor Reinersman presented an overview of Operation Honor. Joe Montgomery with
Operation Honor stated the organization is a Northern Kentucky based non-profit
which helps enhance the lives of veterans and their families. He presented a
sample banner which would hang along Madison Pike. Mr. Montgomery challenged
Council Members to sponsor a banner for a friend or family member.
State Pension Update
Mayor Reinersman presented an update on the State Pension. He stated the Senate
had approved a bill for a 10 year phase-in approach which includes a 12% cap
increase. Mayor Reinersman explained the State Pension funding will affect all
residents in Independence in some manner. He stated the city is in the County
Employees Retirement System (CERS) which is 60-65% funded, compared to the
state’s retirement system which is only 29% funded. Covington Commissioner Bill
Wells explained that Covington will have a $3.2 Million increase.
Chief Scott Breeze with the Independence Fire District discussed the
Independence Fire District Budget and effects of the increase state pension
contributions. He stated the fire district is already running lean so budget
cuts would mean fire district layoffs. Chief Breeze stated the most recent
retirees are not being replaced and that will help save money for the district.
He stated if the phase-in plan goes through, it will be an additional $95,000
in contributions the first year.
Council Member Franzen stated she accompanied the Mayor to Frankfort recently
and spoke to several legislatures which said some state taxes are being raised
and others are being added. Council Member Waite stated Frankfort isn’t
accepting responsibility and putting the bill on the cities and counties.
Al Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence, KY 41018 stated the investors of
the retirement system are not properly doing their jobs and something needs to
change.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-03 – Vacating Apartment House Drive
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-03 which authorizes the Mayor
to execute a deed to transfer Apartment House Drive to Blair Properties, LLC.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-03 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-03.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second from Council Member Waite. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried 5-0.
Executive Order No. 2018-EO-03 – Appointing Lisa Davis to the Independence
Senior Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2018-EO-03 which appoints Lisa
Davis to the Independence Senior Board.
Award Bid for Basketball Court
Mayor Reinersman presented the Memorial Park basketball court bids to Council.
Chris Moriconi stated the city received a $75,000 matching grant for this
project. He stated Riegler Blacktop submitted the lowest bid with $145,261
which includes completion of the parking lot, installation of the basketball
court surface, basketball goals, fencing and a water line for drinking
fountain.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid to Riegler Blacktop.
Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second from Council Member Aseere.
Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Jack Gatlin stated 4060 Richardson Road was referred to the Master Commissioner
and should be set for sale in the upcoming 30 to 90 days.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
The City Administrator thanked several local companies including American Sound
which helped with the Helping a Hero event.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman had nothing further to report.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion to adjourn was made by Council Member
Franzen and seconded by Council Member Deaton. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:30 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
May 7, 2018
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 7, 2018                     City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 7,
2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, and led the Pledge of
Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and
the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack
Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the April 2, 2018 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on April 2,
2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Regular Meeting held on April 2, 2018. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 6-0.
Proclamation: Parker Willman
Mayor Reinersman presented Parker Willman with a proclamation. He stated Parker
has collected millions of toys and treats for pets through ‘Parker’s Pet
Project.’ Mayor Reinersman proclaimed May 8th will be Parker Willman Day.
Police Recognition: Joe Moffett
Mayor Reinersman and Chief Lucas recognized Detective Joseph Moffett. Mayor
Reinersman stated Detective Moffett was promoted from Officer to Detective on
April 1, 2018.
Proposed Ordinance - Adopting an Amended Budget for 2017-2018 - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which adopts the amended
budget for the 2017-2018 fiscal year. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance - Adopting 2018-2019 Budget - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which adopts the 2018-2019
budget. He read his budget message and stated the 2018-2019 budget includes
keeping the tax rates the same, contributing an additional $80,000 to the
pension system, increasing the gas and electric franchise fee by .4%,
increasing the number of school resource officers in our community and hiring
an additional public works employee. He stated the city will continue to set
aside $1,000,000 for the road funds. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance - Adopting the Employee Pay and Classification Plan - 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which adopts the Employee Pay
and Classification Plan for the 2018-2019 fiscal year. He stated the salary
study is reviewed every 5-10 years and this year’s increases will be 2.1% which
is the standard cost of living. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Resolution No. 2018-R-07 – Rumpke Contract Extension
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-07 which extends the current
contract with Rumpke for trash collection services through June 30, 2020. Mr.
Moriconi stated the Rumpke contract extension would lock the rate of $13.48 per
month for two years and is the lowest rate compared to other Northern Kentucky
cities.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-07 for
the Rumpke Contract Extension. Council Member Waite so moved with a second by
Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2018-R-08 – Interlocal Purchasing Agreement Extension
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-08 which authorizes the Mayor
to execute a third amendment to renew the Northern Kentucky Government
Purchasing Agreement that extends through 2028. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No.
2018-R-08.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-08 for
the Interlocal Purchasing Agreement Extension. Council Member Franzen so moved
with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-02 – Franchise Fee Notice to Duke Energy and Owen
Electric
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-02 which increases the
electric and gas franchise fees by .4%. He stated the current rate is 3% and
the increase to 3.4% will be a minimal impact to residents. Mayor Reinersman
stated the passing of this municipal order will provide the required 90 days
written notice to both Duke Energy and Owen Electric. Mr. Gatlin read Municipal
Order No. 2018-MO-02.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-02
to increase the franchise fee to Duke Energy and Owen Electric by .4%. Council
Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was
called. Council Members Franzen, Engelman, Taney, Waite and Deaton voted in
favor and Council Member Aseere abstained. Motion carried, 5-1.
Council Member Aseere stated he wasn’t prepared to vote on the subject and
wants to make sure our rate was similar to other Northern Kentucky cities.
Council Member Aseere stated that he agrees with the budget but would like more
information regarding the franchise fee.
Award Bid for the 2018 Independence Street Program
Mr. Moriconi stated there are three roadway projects this year. He stated the
first project is the Independence Street Program and the lowest bid received
was from Bluegrass Paving at $218,007. Mr. Moriconi stated the project would
provide a blacktop overlay for several streets in Independence.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the bid award for the 2018
Independence Street Program to Bluegrass Paving. Council Member Waite so moved
with a second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion Carried, 6-0.
Award Bid for the Shadybrook Trails Roadway
Mr. Moriconi stated the Shadybrook Trails Roadway is the second of the roadway
projects this year. He stated the lowest bid received for the project was from
Bluegrass Paving at $322,067 and would include a blacktop overlay for several
streets within the Shadybrook Trails subdivision.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the bid award for Shadybrook
Trails Roadway to Bluegrass Paving. Council Member Franzen so moved with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion Carried, 6-0
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated every three years the city adopts a supplement to the code of
ordinances. He stated American Legal creates the supplements and council can
expect to see an ordinance to adopt the supplement at the next council meeting.
City Administrators Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated there’s been a request for the city to vacate a piece of
property off Independence Road near Courthouse Estates. He stated an agreement
would need to be set in place by property owners prior to the city vacating.
Mr. Moriconi stated it could be another 5 to 6 months before the developer
could do anything to the property. He stated that the state is applying for a
grant for the flood zone on Bristow Road which would raise the elevation one
foot as well as address the issues with the trenches and pipes.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Kenton County School District has requested for a
police officer in each of the four city schools. He stated he would like the
schools to cover the cost next year and in the future, contract officers will
be used.
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Volunteer Corps database has been
created, an online form is available to sign up and there are currently have 75
volunteers. He stated the first Party at the Park will be on Thursday, June
14th and there will be food trucks, drinks, games and a live band. Mayor
Reinersman stated the events will be family friendly and will be the second
Thursday of each month during the summer.
Mayor Reinersman stated the regular council meeting scheduled for June 4, 2018
will be cancelled and a special meeting will be held on June 18, 2018.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion to adjourn was made by Council Member
Engelman and with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:15 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
May 24, 2018
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 24, 2018                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, May 24, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: John Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol
Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator
Chris Moriconi, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and City Clerk Gina Gabbard. Council
Member Aseere was absent.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special meeting of Council was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
Resolution No. 2018-R-09 – Agreement with Kentucky Transportation Cabinet –
Downtown Sidewalks
Executive Session (if necessary)
Mayor Reinersman advised that only the items listed on this agenda would be
discussed at this meeting.
Resolution No. 2018-R-09 – Agreement with Kentucky Transportation Cabinet –
Downtown Sidewalk Project
Mayor Reinersman stated Resolution No. 2018-R-09 would authorize him to execute
an agreement between the Commonwealth of Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and
the Federal Highway Administration. He stated the temporary easements have been
obtained and he wants to get the Madison Pike sidewalks project moving as soon
as possible to limit the disruption of traffic for the upcoming school year in
the fall. Mayor Reinersman stated the bid process still has to happen which
includes advertising, accepting and awarding the bid. He stated 5306 Madison
Pike has 19 heirs fighting for ownership of the property and it has held up the
process and the project will move forward not including 5306 Madison Pike until
a temporary easement can be obtained. Mr. Gatlin stated the case should be
going to court within the next 60 days.
Mayor Reinersman stated a $250,000 grant was received by the state for the
downtown sidewalk project and the city’s match is 20% plus $30,000 to hire
engineers to oversee the project. He stated he hopes to start project in July
and complete as much as possible by the time school starts back up in August.
Chris Moriconi stated the grant for the downtown sidewalk project was approved
in 2015.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-09 which
authorizes the Mayor to execute an agreement between the Commonwealth of
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the Federal Highway Administration. Council
Member Taney so moved, with a second from Council Member Franzen. Roll was
called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried 5-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 6:14 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
June 18, 2018
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 18, 2018                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, June 18, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and City Clerk Gina
Gabbard.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special meeting of Council was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
   APPROVAL OF COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of May 7, 2018 and Special
Meeting on May 24, 2018
   ORDINANCE No. 2018-O-04 – Adopting Amended Budget for 2017-2018 - 2nd
Reading
   ORDINANCE No. 2018-O-05 – Adopting Budget for 2018-2019 - 2nd Reading
   ORDINANCE No. 2018-O-06 – Adopting Employee Pay and Classification Plan –
2nd Reading
   RESOLUTION No. 2018-R-10 – MRA Cooperative Agreement
   PROPOSED ORDINANCE – Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances - 1st
Reading
   CONCRETE BIDS
   ATTORNEY’S REPORT – Jack Gatlin
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR REPORT – Chris Moriconi
   MAYOR’S REPORT – Christopher J. Reinersman
   EXECUTIVE SESSION in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c)
   ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Reinersman advised that only the items listed on this agenda would be
discussed at this meeting.
Approval of the May 7, 2018 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on May 7,
2018. Council Member Franzen stated she previously spoke with Ms. Gabbard
regarding Resolution No. 2018-R-05 for the Rumpke Contract Extension and
Resolution No. 2018-R-06 for the Interlocal Purchasing Agreement Extension
needing to be re-numbered since resolution numbers 05 and 06 had previously
been used at the March meeting. She stated the official resolution documents
have been corrected to resolution numbers 07 and 08 and needed to be corrected
on the minutes.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the amended meeting minutes as
suggested by Council Member Franzen for the Regular Meeting held on May 7,
2018. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite.
Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Approval of the May 24, 2018 Special Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the special meeting held on May 24,
2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Special Meeting held on May 24, 2018. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called all voted in favor and
Council Member Aseere abstained because he wasn’t in attendance on the May 24,
2018 meeting. Motion carried, 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-04 – Adopting Amended Budget for 2017-2018 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-04 which adopts the amended
budget for 2017-2018. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-04 a second
reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-04.
Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second from Council Member Franzen.
Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-05 – Adopting Budget for 2018-2019 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-05 which adopts the budget for
the 2018-2019 fiscal year. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-05 a
second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-05.
Council Member Deaton so moved, with a second from Council Member Waite. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-06 – Adopting Employee Pay and Classification Plan – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-06 which adopts the employee
pay and classification plan for the 2018-2019 fiscal year. Attorney Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2018-O-06 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-06.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second from Council Member Engelman.
Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2018-R-10 – Municipal Road Aid Cooperative Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-10 which adopts and approves
the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract between the city, the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
Municipal Aid. He stated the city’s apportionment of the Municipal Road Aid
Funds for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018 is $494,986.12. Mr. Gatlin
read Resolution No. 2018-R-10.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-10 which
adopts and approves the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract for
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2018. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second from Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts supplements S-13
through S-18 to the Code of Ordinances. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance
a first reading.
Concrete Bids
Mayor Reinersman stated Mr. Moriconi and Public Works Director Ken Hicks worked
to get several bids for concrete per truck load. Mr. Moriconi stated three bids
were received and SRM had the lowest price of $1,090 per truck load of concrete
and the rate was good through April 1, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the award for the concrete bid
to SRM with a price of $1,090 per truck load. Council Member Aseere so moved,
with a second from Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi presented the request for the city to vacate property of
Shadybrook Park by homeowners of Finchley Road. Mr. Gatlin explained this would
be considered a surplus of property and would need to be sold by sealed bid.
Council discussed the issue and the majority agreed that all adjacent property
owners should be interested in proceeding with hiring an engineer to survey the
land and start the process. Mr. Moriconi stated he would follow up with the
property owners to see if they were all interested in moving forward and he
would update council at the July meeting.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Madison Pike sidewalk is waiting on two more
signatures from the state to be able to move forward and hopes to post for bids
in August. He stated the work may begin in August but will likely be pushed
back towards spring of 2019.
Mayor Reinersman discussed the first Party at the Park event which was held on
June14, 2018. He stated he received good reviews from residents and looks
forward to future Parties at the Park.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Aseere to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:53 p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
July 2, 2018
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 2, 2018                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 2,
2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, led the Pledge of
Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and
the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, and Patricia Taney. Greg Waite arrived at 7:10pm. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City
Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the June 18, 2018 Special Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the special meeting held on June 18,
2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
Special Meeting held on June 18, 2018. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Al Daly of 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence, KY 41051 spoke regarding the
key lock boxes for commercial buildings. He stated it was useful to keep
unauthorized persons from going into certain areas of buildings and suggested
council pass the proposed ordinance regarding key lock boxes.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-07 – Adopting a Supplement to the Code of Ordinances – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-07 which adopts a supplement to
the code of ordinances. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-07 a second
reading and explained the last three year of ordinances passed would be
officially adopted as a supplement to the code.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-07 which
adopts a supplement to the code of ordinances. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Mayor Reinersman stated the tax calculations were not yet ready from the PVA
and Northern Kentucky Ad District so the first reading of the proposed
ordinance for the 2018 tax rates will be pushed back to the August meeting. He
stated they likely won’t be ready by the scheduled regular meeting of August
6th so that meeting will be cancelled and a special meeting will be scheduled
later in the month and will communicate once it’s scheduled.
Proposed Ordinance – A.O. Smith Occupational License – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance for A.O. Smith Occupational
License. Mr. Gatlin gave the ordinance a first reading stating it’s pursuant
with the Kentucky Business Investment Program and will give A.O. Smith a .5%
discount on their occupational license fee. Council Member Franzen stated A.O.
Smith will increase the number employees and generate additional payroll tax.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Park Shelter Rental Fees – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance for amending park shelter
rental fees. He stated raising the shelter rental fees was prompted by the
state’s new sales tax law which requires the city to collect sales tax on
shelter rentals. Council Member Taney asked for the current shelter rental
rates and about possibly raising the rates on Senior Center rentals. Mr.
Moriconi stated the Senior Center room rentals are exempt from tax because it’s
only part of the building and the shelter rental rates have not been raised
since 2004. Mayor Reinersman stated a study can be done to compare our rates to
other cities and possibly increase the park shelter and Senior Center fees at a
later date. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated
strikethroughs and additions will be added to the document for the second
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Key Lock Box Systems – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance for adding key lock box
systems for future constructed buildings within the city. Independence Fire
Chief Breeze discussed the details of the Key Lock Box System. He stated there
are various types of key lock boxes all of which are accessible by the fire
department. Chief Breeze stated he’s requesting the lock box system be mandated
for future new construction. He stated the types of buildings include
industrial buildings, multi-family residential buildings and healthcare
facilities. Chief Breeze stated each individual business in a strip mall does
not need a lock box and one lock box for the entire strip mall is sufficient.
He stated the fire department will have a master key to all key lock boxes and
these keys are only placed in vehicles, not with a person. Chief Breeze stated
the key lock box systems can range from $800-$1000 and are also available for
residential buildings. Mr. Gatlin stated the City of Erlanger adopted the NFPA
(National Fire Protection Association) which falls under the building code and
it was discussed that “all commercial structures” should be added to the
proposed ordinance. Police Chief Lucas stated the ordinance would help with
door replacement costs and aid in emergencies. Council discussed and decided to
postpone the first reading to better clarify the document.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he would make a few changes on the lock box document and will
be available for next month’s council meeting.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated there may be a future zone change at Turkeyfoot Road and
Independence Station Road. He stated the Fifth Third property is currently used
under a conditional use and the owner will be applying for a zone change from
R1D to NC so the owner can try to sell property. Mr. Moriconi stated the owner
wants to replace the existing building with a larger gas station and a strip
center containing offices on lower level and street level would have
miscellaneous businesses.
Mr. Moriconi stated a request for a tattoo parlor or body art services has been
submitted. He stated there currently isn’t a zone that allows a tattoo parlor
or body art services as a permitted use. Mr. Gatlin stated the city will need
to place body art services in a specific zone to avoid litigation. Mr. Moriconi
stated he would gather a more information regarding tattoo parlors and report
back to Council when he had more information.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the regular August 6, 2018 council meeting is
cancelled. He stated the Independence Day Festival is coming up with a lantern
launch, car show, rides, teen zone, parade, concerts and the spectacular
fireworks show. Mayor Reinersman stated after several meetings with Dr. Webb
regarding Kenton County School District, the district has decided to postpone
the redistricting for at least 12 months.
Jim Woeste, 172 Pelly Road, Independence, KY asked on an update on the
additional speed hump request on Pelly Road. Chief Lucas explained there are
two existing speed humps on Pelly Road and the engineer is doing a study on the
driveway placements and proximity to intersections.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Deaton and
seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:22 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
July 11, 2018
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 11, 2018                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, July 11, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Carol Franzen,
Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris
Moriconi, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and City Clerk Gina Gabbard. Council
Members Deaton and Engelman were absent.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special meeting of Council was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
RESOLUTION 2018-R-11: To provide financial support regarding Kenton County’s
grant application pertaining to State Route 536
ORDINANCE No. 2018-O-08 – A.O. Smith Occupational License – 2nd Reading
ORDINANCE No. 2018-O-09 – Amending Park Shelter Rental Fees – 2nd Reading
ATTORNEY’S REPORT – Jack Gatlin
CITY ADMINISTRATOR REPORT – Chris Moriconi
MAYOR’S REPORT – Christopher J. Reinersman
EXECUTIVE SESSION in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c)
ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Reinersman advised that only the items listed on this agenda would be
discussed at this meeting.
Resolution 2018-R-11 – To provide financial support regarding Kenton County’s
grant application pertaining to State Route 536
Mayor Reinersman stated by supporting and providing financial support to the
Kenton County Fiscal Court, it would aid the county’s application to repair
State Route 536. Kenton County Administrator, Joe Shriver, stated the federal
grant is limited to $25 million. He stated Kenton County passed a resolution to
contribute up to one million dollars towards the 536 Project and are looking
for city and private contributions. Mr. Shriver stated the plan will work on
State Route 536 from US25 to KY17. Mayor Reinersman explained adding funding
could expedite the process.
Kenton County Engineer Nick Hendrix, stated if the grant is approved,
construction must be started by 2020 by the transportation cabinet. He stated
the state office has asked the county to apply for this federal grant and will
make up the difference of the remaining balance of the $100,000,000 (one
hundred million dollar) project. Mayor Reinersman stated the resolution
approves our financial support of $250,000 or up to 1% and funding has been
verified. He stated there will also be a cost benefit analysis done for the
project to look at costs, contributions and potential revenue. Council Members
Taney and Franzen expressed concerns on where the money is coming from to put
towards this match. Mayor Reinersman stated with the 536 corridor complete, it
offers more opportunity for commercial within the city. Mr. Moriconi explained
Bristow Road is a separate project and would not conflict with this 536
project. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2018-R-11.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-11 to
provide financial support regarding Kenton County’s grant application
pertaining to State Route 536. Council Member Taney so moved, with a second by
Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-08 – A.O. Smith Occupational License – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-08 which provides a .5% credit
to A.O. Smith on their occupational license fee. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No.
2018-O-08 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-08 for
A.O. Smith Occupational License. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second
by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-09 – Amending Park Shelter Rental Fees – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-09 which amends the fees for
park shelter rentals. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-09 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-09 to
amend park shelter rental fees. Council Member Aseere so moved, with a second
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Attorney’s Report
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated he had nothing to report.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 6:53p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
July 11, 2018
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 11, 2018                  City of Independence, Ky.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a3dec6886f99251eafaf02093cc2f972bbe37a10/
IMAGES/0-0-0-179_9360x30.jpg]
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, July 11, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Carol Franzen,
Patricia Taney and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris
Moriconi, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and City Clerk Gina Gabbard. Council
Members Deaton and Engelman were absent.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special meeting of Council was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
RESOLUTION 2018-R-11: To provide financial support regarding Kenton County’s
grant application pertaining to State Route 536
ORDINANCE No. 2018-O-08 – A.O. Smith Occupational License – 2nd Reading
ORDINANCE No. 2018-O-09 – Amending Park Shelter Rental Fees – 2nd Reading
ATTORNEY’S REPORT – Jack Gatlin
CITY ADMINISTRATOR REPORT – Chris Moriconi
MAYOR’S REPORT – Christopher J. Reinersman
EXECUTIVE SESSION in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c)
ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Reinersman advised that only the items listed on this agenda would be
discussed at this meeting.
Resolution 2018-R-11 – To provide financial support regarding Kenton County’s
grant application pertaining to State Route 536
Mayor Reinersman stated by supporting and providing financial support to the
Kenton County Fiscal Court, it would aid the county’s application to repair
State Route 536. Kenton County Administrator, Joe Shriver, stated the federal
grant is limited to $25 million. He stated Kenton County passed a resolution to
contribute up to one million dollars towards the 536 Project and are looking
for city and private contributions. Mr. Shriver stated the plan will work on
State Route 536 from US25 to KY17. Mayor Reinersman explained adding funding
could expedite the process.
Kenton County Engineer Nick Hendrix, stated if the grant is approved,
construction must be started by 2020 by the transportation cabinet. He stated
the state office has asked the county to apply for this federal grant and will
make up the difference of the remaining balance of the $100,000,000 (one
hundred million dollar) project. Mayor Reinersman stated the resolution
approves our financial support of $250,000 or up to 1% and funding has been
verified. He stated there will also be a cost benefit analysis done for the
project to look at costs, contributions and potential revenue. Council Members
Taney and Franzen expressed concerns on where the money is coming from to put
towards this match. Mayor Reinersman stated with the 536 corridor complete, it
offers more opportunity for commercial within the city. Mr. Moriconi explained
Bristow Road is a separate project and would not conflict with this 536
project. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2018-R-11.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-11 to
provide financial support regarding Kenton County’s grant application
pertaining to State Route 536. Council Member Taney so moved, with a second by
Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-08 – A.O. Smith Occupational License – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-08 which provides a .5% credit
to A.O. Smith on their occupational license fee. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No.
2018-O-08 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-08 for
A.O. Smith Occupational License. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second
by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-09 – Amending Park Shelter Rental Fees – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-09 which amends the fees for
park shelter rentals. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-09 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-09 to
amend park shelter rental fees. Council Member Aseere so moved, with a second
by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Attorney’s Report
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated he had nothing to report.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 6:53p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
August 27, 2018
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 27, 2018                  City of Independence, KY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a3dec6886f99251eafaf02093cc2f972bbe37a10/
IMAGES/0-0-0-182_9360x30.jpg]
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, August 27, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Carol Franzen,
Patricia Taney, Amy Engelman, and John Deaton. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and City Clerk Gina
Gabbard. Council Member Greg Waite entered at 8:53pm.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special Council Meeting was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
APPROVAL OF COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of July 2, 2018
APPROVAL OF COUNCIL MINUTES: Special Meeting of July 11, 2018
ITRODUCTION OF INTERN
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-R-12: Text Amendment for church to be conditional use in
NSC Zone
RESOLUTION NO. 2018-R-13: Stage 1 Amendment for Quast Property
PROPOSED ORDINANCE: Map Amendment – Zone Change for Quast Property – 1st
Reading
PROPOSED ORDINANCE: Key Lock Box System – 1st Reading
PROPOSED ORDINANCE: Highway 16 Clarification – Harris Pike – 1st Reading
PROPOSED ORDINANCE: Adopting 2018 Tax Rates – 1st Reading
PROPOSED ORDINANCE: Cluster Mailbox – 1st Reading
PROPOSED ORDINANCE: Amending Pay Plan with Addition of PT Office Asst Position
– 1st Reading
NOISE ORDINANCE DISCUSSION
ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Reinersman advised that only the items listed on this agenda would be
discussed at this meeting.
Approval of the July 2, 2018 Regular Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the regular meeting held on July 2,
2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on July 2, 2018. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 5-0.
Approval of the July 11, 2018 Special Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the special meeting held on July 11,
2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on July 11, 2018. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 5-0.
Introduction of Intern
Mr. Moriconi introduced Intern Christina Pletowski. He stated she is from
Munich, Germany and is currently a Political Science Major at Northern Kentucky
University. He stated Christina has been assisting him with several projects,
shadowing the Zoning Administrator and Building Inspector and will be attending
a ride-along with the police.
Resolution No. 2018-R-12 – Text Amendment for church to be conditional use in
NSC Zone
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-12 which is a text amendment
to add churches as a conditional use in NSC Zone. He stated Grace Fellowship
Church is requesting to occupy the open space in the Independence Town Center
next to Kroger. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2018-R-12.
Kent Ousley, 2760 Sycamore Creek, Independence, KY 41051, from Grace Fellowship
Church, stated the church would pay for the application fees for the text
amendment.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-12 for a
text amendment to add churches as conditional use in the NSC Zone. Council
Member Aseere so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was
called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2018-R-13 – Stage I Amendment for Quast Properties
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2018-R-13 for a Stage I Amendment for
3.08 acres located on the southwest side of the intersection of Richardson Road
and Old Richardson Road. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2018-R-13.
The property owner Dr. David Quast and his engineer Brock Mackay, stated the
enclosed map labeled “old” was the original plan, the map labeled “new” was
what Quast Properties recently submitted. Mr. Mackay stated most of the primary
changes were made for acquiring the right of ways. Council Member Taney asked
if it was a concept or a final plan. Mr. Mackay stated it was a complete Stage
I Plan and additional information would be provided once the Stage I Amendment
was approved.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2018-R-13 for
the Stage I amendment for Quast Properties. Council Member Aseere so moved,
with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment – Zone Change for Quast Property – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which is a map amendment to
change the .82 acres located on the north side of Old Richardson Road from a R-
3 Zone (Multi-Family Residential Zone) to a NC Zone (Neighborhood Commercial).
He stated the request comes from Dr. David Quast who currently owns the
property as well as other surrounding properties. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
The property owner Dr. David Quast and his engineer Brock Mackay explained they
plan to keep the current structure and turn the building into office space. Mr.
Mackay stated they also plan to construct a parking lot on the property for the
potential business as well as aid the future parking issue for the adjacent
property.
Linda Morehead, 4070 Richardson Rd, Independence, KY stated her home is
directly across the street from the referenced property. She explained the
street is currently a dead end street with 10 homes and an apartment building
and she doesn’t want a commercial building and/or parking lot across from her
home. Mrs. Morehead stated her concerns with regulating of current ordinances
and said the existing UDF was supposed to have an evergreen buffer which was
never completed. Mayor Reinersman explained that Planning and Development
Services (PDS) should enforce the agreed upon plans.
Council Member Franzen stated she didn’t understand the need to change the zone
while other properties are left untouched. She stated if the zone change isn’t
approved, Quast Properties could tear down the existing home and build an
apartment complex. Council Member Aseere stated he does not believe the zone
change makes sense for the area. Council Member Deaton suggested to postpone
the proposed ordinance. Mr. Gatlin stated PDS already recommended the zone
change and there would need to be a majority vote to overrule the decision.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to postpone the proposed ordinance for a
map amendment and zone change for the property. Council Member Franzen so
moved, with a second by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and votes were
all ayes other than Council Member Waite who abstained since he entered mid
conversation. Motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Key Lock Box Systems – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which requires commercial
structures to have a key lock box system. He stated this ordinance has been
revised since the last council meeting. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance
a first reading.
Council Member Franzen proposed to change the language to only include new
constructed buildings. She stated she thinks there should also be an opt-out
option for businesses which includes signing a waiver to not participate in the
lock box system and the business owner would then be liable for any damages
incurred by the emergency responders. Council Member Taney stated this
shouldn’t be enforced by the city because the fire department is a separate
entity and questioned if any other cities have a similar ordinance.
Lucas Deaton, 10327 Charleston Ln, Independence, KY stated he searched for
similar local ordinances and was unable to find any that included the city and
the fire department as two separate entities. He stated he did not agree with
the language of the document which states the keys would be under control of
the City Administrator and his delegates and believes this would be a violation
of the fourth amendment.
Council Member Deaton stated the city doesn’t need to the liability of getting
involved in the key lock box issue. Council Member Aseere stated he was not in
favor of the proposed ordinance because it should not be governed by the city.
Al Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence, KY stated the boxes were a huge
help when he was previously a fire chief and explained the difficulties the
fire department has enforcing the key lock box system without the support of
the legislative government. He explained having uniformity in key lock box
systems was also helpful and saved time.
Council Member Taney stated the city does not hold the authority over the fire
department and the fire department should look for aid elsewhere such as the
fire marshals or state department.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion for a short recess at 8:34pm. Council
Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried
with all ayes.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to resume the council meeting at 8:53pm.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Assistant Fire Chief Greg Nordmeyer, of the City of Independence Fire District,
stated the fire district is unable to pass and enforce an ordinance themselves.
He stated the program has been around for 20 years and they have not had any
issues with missing keys or breech of privacy. He stated business owners must
be notified prior to entrance and it’s usually due to an alarm system
notification. Mr. Nordmeyer stated the key lock box system is for the larger
business not the small ‘mom and pop’ business. He added there are currently 6
keys which are locked in service vehicles which only the fire department has
access to and around 60 businesses within the city are currently part of the
key lock box system. Mr. Nordmeyer stated not having to check if a business is
in the system helps save the fire district time during an emergency.
Council Members Deaton, Aseere, and Taney expressed they were opposed to the
proposed ordinance of requiring commercial business owners to participate in
the key lock box system. Mr. Gatlin stated he understood council’s desire of
postponing the proposed ordinance until the next meeting and suggested council
make recommendations to update the language in the proposed ordinance to what
they felt more comfortable with.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to postpone the proposed ordinance for Key
Lock Box Systems until the next meeting. Council Member Deaton so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Highway 16 Clarification – Harris Pike – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which clarifies the road that
runs west to east from Madison Pike to Kentucky Highway 536 as Harris Pike. He
stated the road is called several names including Highway 16, State Route 536,
Harris Road and Harris Pike. He stated this ordinance would clarify the road
consistently named Harris Pike. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2018 Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which adopts the 2018 tax
rates. He stated the tax rates would not be increasing and will remain at $.271
for every one hundred dollars for real property and $.642 for every one hundred
dollars for personal property. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Cluster Mailbox – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which amends section 150.03
of the Independence Code of Ordinances which relates to neighborhood mail
delivery and cluster mail boxes. He stated some neighborhoods have complained
about not receiving mail because of parked cars blocking their mailbox. Mr.
Moriconi stated this has been an ongoing issue with neighborhoods which have
limited on street parking. He stated residents aren’t receiving their mail and
they must regularly pick up mail from the post office. Mr. Moriconi stated a
cluster mailbox would only be installed if the conditions are deemed necessary
and a safe location is accessible. He also explained the city would share the
cost by having the public services department pour a concrete pad among other
tasks. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending Pay Plan with Addition of Part Time Office
Assistant Position – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance to amend the current pay plan
to include a part time Office Assistant position. He stated the position has
come to light due to the Assistant City Clerk requiring maternity leave in
December. Council Member Taney questioned the difference between this position
and the secretarial/clerical position and why it was being labeled as part
time. Mr. Moriconi stated the part time status would assist with hiring and
budget decisions to express it is solely a part time position. Mr. Gatlin gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Noise Ordinance Discussion
Mayor Reinersman stated there have been requests made for an official noise
ordinance by residents and council. Council Member Franzen stated she’s had
several requests by residents for a noise ordinance due to late night
fireworks, music, etc. Mr. Moriconi stated there is an existing ordinance that
states noise cannot be over a certain decibel however, it is unrealistic to
provide decibel guns to every officer and/or zoning official. Council Member
Franzen stated the noise issue needs to be a new ordinance and not an
adjustment to the nuisance ordinance.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Ct, Independence, KY stated her neighborhood has
several issues with noise including loud music, fireworks, late night pool
parties, loud cars and more.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence, KY stated she has also had issues with
noise including festivals, motorcycles, cars with improper equipment and noisy
neighbors. She expressed that she was in favor of a noise ordinance but it must
be enforceable.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 9:38p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
September 10, 2018
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 10, 2018               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
10, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, students
from Dixie Heights led the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led
the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney, Amy Engelman
and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk
Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the August 27, 2018 Special Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the special meeting held on August
27, 2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on August 27, 2018. Council Member Aseere so moved, with a
second by Council Member Deaton. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment – Zone Change for Quast Property – 1st
Reading 
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which includes a map amendment
for the .82 acres located on the north side of Old Richardson from R-3 (Multi-
Family Residential Zone) to a NC (Neighborhood Commercial Zone). Mr. Gatlin
stated the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) has made the recommendation
to approve the zone change. He stated there are a few options Council has which
are: council can take no action which will result in an automatic approval,
council could vote on and approve the zone change and an ordinance would be
adopted with two reading or council could deny the zone change, which would
require four votes from council to overturn. Mr. Gatlin stated Council has
until October 31st, 2018 to take action and if no action is taken, the
recommendation of KCPC will be upheld. He stated this is not an evidentiary
hearing and no new evidence would be submitted at the council meeting. Mr.
Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mr. Robert Morehead, 4070 Richardson Rd, Independence, KY 41051. Mr. Morehead
stated he attended the Kenton County Planning Commission Meeting and expressed
his disapproval for a commercial property on Old Richardson Road which is a
residential street. Mr. Morehead stated the extra traffic will create problems
for neighbors and school buses. He stated in the Planning Meeting Minutes from
the original change states that on Lily Drive no ingress egress allowed 9 years
ago. Mr. Gatlin stated the referenced KCPC minutes were not brought up in the
KCPC’s public hearing on August 2, 2018. Mayor Reinersman reiterated we can
only discuss what was brought up at the previous KCPC public hearing. Mr.
Gatlin explained he is unfamiliar with the minutes from the meeting 9 years
ago.
Justin Verst with Viox and Viox, Inc, 466 Erlanger Rd, Erlanger, KY 41018. Mr.
Verst distributed print outs to council what was presented at the KCPS public
hearing on August 2, 2018. He stated with the current zone, Mr. Quast could
tear down the existing house and construct a multi-family apartment building.
Mr. Verst stated the packets given to Council shows the future land use and the
entire side of Richardson Road would eventually become commercial property
according to the comprehensive plan. He stated Dr. Quast wants to use this
property as a small office space which would not create a large volume of
traffic.
There was some discussion from council regarding the location of the ingress
and egress and if they could put a conditional approval with a specified access
point. Mr. Verst explained the traffic would likely come from behind the
building, however, they need to also have access to Richardson Road since
that’s where the formal address of the property is located. He stated the
parking lot would be to the side and in the back of the building, it would sit
lower than the street and Dr. Quast intends to put foliage in front of the
parking lot. Council Member Aseere asked if they could completely remove the
ingress egress. Mr. Gatlin also explained the property would have to have
access to Richardson Road.
Council Member Deaton asked if Dr. Quast and the Moreheads could come to an
agreement to bring to council. Council Member Franzen asked Mr. Verst and Dr.
Quast if the zone change is not approved, what are his plans and if it’s an
apartment building, how many cars would be going in and out of there. Mr. Verst
stated a 12 unit apartment complex could be constructed and parking would be in
the front of the building. Council Member Franzen asked if additional
landscaping could be put in to block the view of the parking lot. Council
Member Deaton requested a short recess. Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to
recess. Council Member Deaton so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen.
Motion carried with all ayes. Council meeting entered a recess at 7:59 p.m.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to resume the council meeting. Council
Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried
with all ayes. Council meeting resumed at 8:05 p.m.
Mayor Reinersman suggested we continue with the first reading and Dr. Quast and
the Moreheads come to an agreement and minor changes can be made with the
second reading on October 1, 2018.
Proposed Ordinance – Key Lock Box Systems – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which requires commercial
structures to have a key lock box system. He stated some of the changes made
from the previous council meeting include: commercial structures would require
a lock box if alterations were made, added the waiver to opt out and keys
should be under control of the fire district chief. Mayor Reinersman stated we
received a copy of Silver Grove’s ordinance regarding lock boxes and they
passed an ordinance requested from their local fire district. He read part of
the ordinance from Silver Grove and Council Member Engelman stated she liked
the verbiage of the Silver Grove ordinance. Mayor Reinersman explained Council
has time to pass this ordinance and if they would like changed made to please
reach out to himself or the City Administrator and a first reading would be
done at the October meeting.
Council Member Taney stated a key lock box ordinance was also being proposed
for the Kenton County Fiscal Court. Council members discussed whether a lock
box was part of the building code. Council Member Aseere asked who would write
the waiver to opt out. Mr. Gatlin expressed his hesitation to write the waiver
and would refer it to the fire district. He also expressed his uncertainty on
how enforceable the waiver would be and he would present council with a waiver
next month. Mr. Gatlin stated he would like to take time to review the Silver
Grove ordinance and incorporate some of their practices for a first reading. .
Council Member Franzen made a motion to table the proposed lock box ordinance
with a second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was called and votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Council Member Taney made a motion to re-numbers as Ordinance No. 2018-O-10 and
2018-O-11 were skipped as they were changed from 2nd readings to 1st readings
per items being tabled at previous council meeting.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-10 – Highway 536 Clarification – Harris Pike – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-12 which clarifies 536 to be
called Harris Pike.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-10.
Council Member Waite so moved with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-11 – Adopting 2018 Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-11 which adopts the tax rates
for the 2018 fiscal year.
He stated this is the third year the tax rate has not changed with .271 for
real property per $100 and .642 for personal property per $100. Mr. Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2018-O-11 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-11.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Deaton. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-12 – Cluster Mailbox – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-12 which amends section 150.03
of the Code of Ordinance as it relates to gang mail boxes. He stated this
ordinance changes the regulations for gang mail boxes in neighborhoods which
have problems with on street parking and blocking of resident’s mailboxes. Mr.
Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-12 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-12.
Council Member Engelman so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll
was called. Council Members Franzen, Engelman, Waite, Aseere and Deaton voted
in favor and Council Member Taney opposed. Motion carried, 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-13 – Amending Pay Plan with Addition of Part Time Office
Assistant Position – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-13 which amends the pay plan
with the addition of a part time office assistant position. Mayor Reinersman
stated by specifying the position as part time, it helps with budgeting
purposes. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-13 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-13.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Deaton. Roll
was called. Council Members Franzen, Engelman, Waite, Aseere and Deaton voted
in favor and Council Member Taney opposed. Motion carried, 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Noise Ordinance
Mayor Reinersman stated the proposed noise ordinance is a work in progress.
Council Member Deaton asked Assistant Police Chief Lonaker what the Police
Department would like to see in the noise ordinance. He answered they would
like something that is enforceable and a more detailed ordinance would help the
police department determine what is considered too loud or a nuisance. Mr.
Gatlin explained he drafted this ordinance mirroring the Hillview ordinance
with some changes. Mayor Reinersman stated the purpose of the noise ordinance
is to clarify rules and regulations and make it more effective.
Council Member Franzen suggested the end time for the noise ordinance be
changed to 11:00 p.m. rather than 11:59 p.m. There was some discussion and
council agreed to remove the exemption on lawn mowers and to leave the work
week starting time at 7:00 a.m. Mayor Reinersman confirmed with council that
everyone was agreeable to Sunday through Thursday from 10:00 p.m. until 7:00
a.m. and Friday and Saturday to 11:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. would be the quiet
hours for the city.
Assistant Chief Lonaker stated it would be easier for the Police if the
firework hours were the same as the regular quiet time house. Council Member
Franzen stated she would like a later time in the morning for fireworks and
there was discussion about fireworks on holidays. Council Member Taney stated
it doesn’t get dark enough for fireworks until 10pm in the summer. Mayor
Reinersman confirmed with council that everyone was agreeable for fireworks
quiet times for on Sunday through Thursday from 10:00 p.m. until 8 a.m. and
Friday and Saturday from 11:00 a.m. until 8:00 a.m., 11:59pm until 8:00 a.m. on
Independence Day, 11:00 p.m. until 12:30 a.m. on New Year’s Eve and Day.
Council discussed exemptions and agreed the construction, lawn mower, and
aircraft exemptions would be removed. Council was unsure on the exemption for
churches and schools. Council Member Franzen expressed her concern with loud
cars and motorcycles. She asked Assistant Chief Lonaker how realistic it is to
enforce a noise ordinance for this. Lonaker expressed what he might consider
loud may not be loud for another individual and the more detailed the ordinance
was, the easier it is to enforce. Mr. Gatlin stated the noise ordinance would
work in conjunction with the current nuisance ordinance.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Ct, Independence, KY 41051, would like the city to
follow the consistency of the state law in regards noise. Mayor Reinersman
explained the Police can enforce the state law. Mr. Gatlin expressed council
can make the parameters more restrictive.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi thanked Christina Pletowski for her time spent with the city and
has been accepted into law school in Munich, Germany.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the last Party at the Park is this Thursday and hopes
for a good turnout. He also explained the School Resource Officer positions
have all been filled and the officers will be starting within the next week.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 9:21 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
October 1, 2018
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 1, 2018               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
1, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order, a local Boy
Scout Troop led the Pledge of Allegiance and Council Member Franzen led the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, John Deaton, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney, Amy Engelman
and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk
Gina Gabbard, City Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the September 10, 2018 Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the council meeting held on
September 10, 2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
council meeting held on September 10, 2018. Council Member Deaton so moved,
with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-14– Map Amendment – Zone Change for Quast Property – 2nd
Reading 
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-014 which amends approximately
.82 acres located on the north side of Old Richardson Road from a R-3 zone to a
NC zone.
Robert Morehead, 4070 Richardson Road, Independence, KY expressed his
disapproval of the zone change and stated he met with the Quast developers the
week prior and no agreement was made to change the current plans. He stated his
desire for Quast to move the driveway so it wasn’t facing his property and
believes it would help traffic.
Brock Mackay, Engineer with Viox and Viox Inc., provided drawings to council
and explained how moving the driveway a significant amount would result in
grading which would be too steep. Mr. Mackay stated they were able to move the
driveway slightly but would require a retaining wall which would increase costs
for Dr. Quast. He stated moving the driveway to the location Mr. Morehead
suggests would also be at the top end of the ADA steepness requirements.
Council Member Deaton questioned how many residents the location of the
driveway would affect and stated the comprehensive plan passed by the Kenton
County Planning Commission (KCPC) is to eventually have the entire area zoned
commercial. He stated this issue currently only affects a few residents while
the comprehensive plan would impact thousands of residents in the future.
Council Member Franzen asked the Moreheads if they approved moving the driveway
slightly. Mr. Morehead stated he would like the driveway completely removed.
Mr. Gatlin advised council that KCPC already unanimously approved the plans
with a previously held public hearing. He stated if council would like to
overturn KCPC’s decision or modify the plans, it would require a majority vote
and they would have provide reasons for their modifications.
Council Member Deaton made a motion for a recess so council to gather their
thoughts. Council Member Engelman seconded. A five minute recess passed with
all ayes at 7:40pm.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to resume the meeting at 7:45pm. Council
Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Deaton. Council voted
unanimously in favor to resume meeting.
Mr. Gatlin read Ordinance No. 2018-O-14. Mayor Reinersman asked council if
there were any motions. Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve the
ordinance with an amendment to move the driveway. Council Member Engelman
seconded. Roll was called. Council Members Franzen and Engelman voted in favor.
Council Members Taney, Aseere, Waite, and Deaton voted against. Motion failed
2-4.
Council Member Aseere made a motion to reject the ordinance and overturn KCPC’s
recommendation to approve. Council Member Taney seconded. Roll was called.
Council Member Aseere and Taney voted in favor. Council Members Franzen, Waite,
Engelman, and Deaton voted against. Motion failed 2-4.
No other motions were made by council. Mr. Gatlin stated with no action taken
by council regarding the matter, KCPC’s decision will automatically pass by
default on October 30, 2018.
Proposed Ordinance – Key Lock Box Systems – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which requires commercial
structures to have a key lock box system. Council Member Waite stated the
waiver for the key lock box system goes against council’s authority to override
the fire code. Mr. Gatlin explained the waiver would be for someone who chose
not to install the lockbox and they would be waiving liability for damage done
to the property but not a waiver for federal or state requirements for fire
safety. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Deaton suggested the city create a proclamation rather than an
ordinance. Council Member Taney asked what the proclamation would do. Mayor
Reinersman stated it would be an encouragement to businesses to install a lock
box with no legal affect. The majority of council acknowledged they would be in
favor of a proclamation rather than an ordinance.
Proposed Ordinance – Noise Ordinance
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which specifies times which
noise levels are monitored and the police can enforce the law when it becomes a
nuisance. Council Member Deaton asked to consider removing exemptions C and E
in section 4 which included public recreation facilities, schools, and
churches. Council Member Franzen asked if the exemptions were removed, how
realistic would it be to send police officers to the schools to shut down a
delayed or late football game. Council Member Deaton stated it should be exempt
and school functions shouldn’t continue later than the times listed on the
drafted ordinance.
Council Member Aseere stated his concerns with exempting all churches. He
stated on Labor Day this year, a local church let off fireworks on a school
night and there were several complaints from residents. Mayor Reinersman stated
he had a conversation with St. Cecilia and they expressed they would not set
off fireworks on a Monday night again. Mr. Gatlin asked if council would like
to change the time to 11:00 pm on weekends. Council Members Franzen, Aseere and
Deaton agreed. Council Member Waite expressed concern on changing times for
school functions in the event a game is delayed.
Council Member Franzen would like to specify the exemption status would be for
schools and school events only. Mayor Reinersman cautioned this would not
exempt St. Barbara Church, St. Cecilia Church or the city fireworks. Police
Chief Lucas stated it is beneficial to continue the band and rides after
fireworks to minimize traffic. He believes that just having a conversation with
St. Cecilia about noise and fireworks would be alleviate the issues. His goal
for the noise ordinance is so the police department can site repeat offenders.
Mr. Gatlin explained exemption C is now noises emanating or originating from
public recreational facilities for city events, exemption E is bonafied school
sponsored events on school grounds, exemption F has become noises emanating or
originating from bonafied civic, charitable, or religious organizations until
11:30pm on Friday, Saturday or Sundays prior to a national holiday.
Mayor Reinersman asked for a motion to amend the first reading to include the
changes made to exemptions as discussed. Council Member Franzen so moved with a
second by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and all votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated there have been recent road slides on Marshall Road and
Crowe Road. He explained the city would be looking into options for repair
including new technology that has been previously used by the state. Mr.
Moriconi stated the city office have processed over 800 passport application in
the past year, bringing in over $20,000 in processing fees. He stated he is
working on a wire franchise agreement with phone companies which would use our
right-of-ways for fiber optics and is working with other cities to create a
master agreement. Mr. Moriconi explained he needs to submit final paperwork for
the basketball court grant and the city will be receiving a $75,000 check.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated he received some valuable information at the recent
Kentucky League of Cities conference including the continued discussions of
CERS separation and encouraged council to support the CERS separation from the
state retirement system. He stated the road funding rule was also discussed in
which cities receive one fifth of the road funding and also mentioned the
monies received from the municipal road aid only cover about half of our annual
road costs.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:47 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
November 12, 2018
Minutes of November 12, 2018               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
12, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John
Deaton, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney, Amy Engelman and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City
Attorney Jack Gatlin and Finance Director Terri Hudson.
Approval of the October 1, 2018 Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the council meeting held on October
1, 2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
council meeting held on October 1, 2018. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proclamation- Key Lock Box
Mayor Reinersman stated rather than doing an ordinance for fire lock boxes,
council agreed to a proclamation to show their support for businesses to
install key lock boxes. Mayor Reinersman read the proclamation.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-15 – Noise Ordinance – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-15 which specifies times when
noise levels are monitored and the police can enforce the law when it becomes a
nuisance. Mr. Gatlin explained there was an error with the printed ordinance
and section 4, which lists exemptions, wasn’t correct per council’s
recommendations at the previous council meeting. Mr. Gatlin reviewed the
changes to the exemptions and stated the official ordinance will have the
changes as discussed. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-15 a second reading
and noted the changes to section 4.
Council Member Deaton asked if there was a warning period for the noise
ordinance. Mayor Reinersman stated it would be at the officer’s discretion to
issue a warning or citation. Police Chief Lucas stated the police department
attempts to warn citizens with the first offense. Council Member Aseere stated
his concern with the penalty section of the ordinance. Mr. Gatlin explained the
penalty section is written in virtually every city ordinance.
Council Member Deaton made a motion to table Ordinance No. 2018-O-15. Council
Member Taney seconded. Roll was called and Council Members Deaton and Taney
were in favor. Council Members Waite, Franzen, Aseere, and Engelman were not in
favor. Motion failed, 2-4.
Council Member Aseere suggested changing the verbiage of the penalty section to
be more defined. Chief Lucas stated he would be able to track repeat offenders
in the system and they have 30 days from a citation to pay it or go to court.
Mr. Gatlin stated the district judge will assign a dollar amount per citation,
not the officer.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-15 with a
second by Council Member Waite. Roll was called. Council Members Franzen,
Waite, Engelman, and Aseere were in favor. Council Members Taney and Deaton
were not in favor. Motion carried, 4-2.
Terry Donoghue, 10633 Brent Ridge Circle, Independence, KY . Mr. Donoghue asked
the Mayor if the amphitheater in Memorial Park was available to rent. Mayor
Reinersman stated that it is not available because it causes amplified sound
which could have a large impact on the park as a whole.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment to add churches as a conditional use to the
NSC Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which is a text amendment to
add churches to the NSC (Neighborhood Shopping Center) zone. He stated Grace
Fellowship Church is looking at moving into the Independence Town Center where
the old Kroger was located. He stated churches aren’t currently allowed within
the NSC zone so a text amendment is necessary to add them as a conditional use.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-03 - Investment Policy
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-03 which defines the
investment policy for the city. Chris Moriconi stated having an investment
policy is a best practice and the city is currently following the policy.
Finance Director, Terri Hudson, stated she drafted the policy and referenced
the state statute as well as other cities’ policies to create the policy for
the city. Mr. Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-03.
Council Member Aseere made a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2018-MO-03
with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin updated council on the legal battle regarding the feuding heirs in
regards to the Madison Pike sidewalk easement. He stated the city will proceed
next week with obtaining a temporary easement for the sidewalk project. Mr.
Moriconi stated the project will be sent out for bids this winter.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi thanked Council Member Deaton for his generous donation of 14 oak
trees to plant around the basketball courts at Memorial Park. He also thanked
Barry Mallot who donated the mulch for the landscaping. Mr. Moriconi recognized
Parks and Recreation Facilitator Nita Brake for receiving an award for the
outstanding contribution to the leisure profession from the Kentucky
Recreations Parks Society.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the city was under budget over one million dollars from
the previous fiscal year. He stated the fifth annual American Legion Ball was a
hit with approximately 150 attendees. Mayor Reinersman thanked the event
sponsors including Holland Restaurant Group, Peter Family Dentistry and Arronco
Heating and Air. He explained the city Christmas Walk will be Saturday,
December 1st and thanked Council Member Waite for taking on the role of czar
again this year.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:13 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
COUNCIL MEETING
December 3, 2018
Minutes of December 3, 2018               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
3, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, John
Deaton, Carol Franzen, Patricia Taney, Amy Engelman and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, City
Attorney and Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the November 12, 2018 Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the council meeting held on November
12, 2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
council meeting held on November 12, 2018. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes.
KLC- JD Chaney and Senator Damon Thayer-Presenting Friend of Kentucky Cities
Award
Kentucky League of Cities Deputy Executive Director, JD Chaney, presented a
Friend of Kentucky Cities Award to Senator Damon Thayer. Mr. Chaney stated the
award is given to legislatures that go above and beyond and have a positive
impact on local government. Senator Thayer stated he’s continuing to work hard
with Mayor Reinersman on the 536 project and funding dollars are now available
for phase one.
Ordinance No. 2018-O-16- Text Amendment- Add churches as a conditional use to
NSC Zone-2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2018-O-16 which is a text amendment to
add churches as a conditional use in the NSC zone (Neighborhood Shopping
Center). Jack Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2018-O-16 a second reading. He stated
the Kenton County Planning Commission had a public hearing on October 4, 2018
and made a recommendation to approve the conditional use.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2018-O-16 which
approved a text amendment to add churches as a conditional use in the NSC zone.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll
was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2018-EO-04- Appointment to OKI Board of Directors
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2018-EO-04 which re-appoints
Christopher J. Reinersman to the OKI Board of Directors for 2019.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the dispatch radio bids are coming in lower than
anticipated and he will have more to report on the matter in January.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the city had another successful Christmas Walk this
year despite the weather. He stated the pageant crowned the new Miss
Independence, Natalie Hahn and there were over 90 runners in the Santa 5k.
Mayor Reinersman expressed his appreciation to Council Member Waite, Public
Works, City Staff and the Independence Business Association for all their help
with the event.
Council Member Aseere stated his gratitude to outgoing Council Members Taney
and Deaton for their service on council for the past two years.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:33 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
2019 Minutes
January 7, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 7, 2019               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
7, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Lucas Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen and Greg Waite. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney
Brandon Voelker.
Approval of the December 3, 2018 Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the council meeting held on December
3, 2018.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
council meeting held on December 3, 2018. Council Member Engelman so moved,
with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2019-R-01 – State grant for Madison Pike Sidewalks
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2019-R-01 which authorizes the Mayor
to sign the agreement for the Madison Pike Sidewalk project. Brandon Voelker
read Resolution No. 2019-R-01. Mr. Moriconi stated with the help of Mr. Gatlin,
all of the temporary easements have been obtained and the Madison Pike sidewalk
project can continue. He stated the resolution will authorize the Mayor to move
forward using the grant to complete the new sidewalks on Madison Pike. Mr.
Voelker read Resolution No. 2019-R-01.
Council Member Brinker questioned the timeline of the project. Mr. Moriconi
stated the project will include new sidewalks from St. Cecilia to Big Bone and
on the other side of the street from Rapunzel’s Hair Salon to Hartland
subdivision and estimates three months to complete and hoping to not impact
school traffic and July fourth festivities.
Council Member Aseere asked where the location of the new sidewalks will be.
Mayor reiterated Mr. Moriconi’s previous response to Council Member Brinker.
Council Member Aseere also questioned if this was all one phase or if was
multiple phases. Mayor Reinersman stated its all one project and it is funded
by a 20/80 grant which the city is contributing twenty percent and the state’s
grant of eighty percent is $250,000.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-01 which
authorizes the Mayor to sign the Madison Pike Sidewalk Agreement. Council
Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll was
called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2019-EO-01- Appointment to the TBNK Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2019-EO-01 which appoints
Council Member Brinker to the TBNK (Telecommunications Board of Northern
Kentucky) for the 2019-2020 term.
Executive Order No. 2019-EO-02- Appointment to the PDS Council
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2019-EO-02 which re-appoints
Mayor Reinersman as the primary representative and Council Member Franzen as
the alternate representative to the PDS (Planning and Development Services)
Council for 2019.
Award Bid – Police Radios
Mayor Reinersman stated Kenton County and several cities have been working on a
new radio system for over two years. He stated the two bids submitted for the
Independence Police Department were AMK Services with a bid for $185,964 and
Mobilecomm with a bid for $222,807.
Chief Lucas stated AMK Services offered a higher trade in value and matched the
seven year warranty. He stated the technology is top of the line and won’t
change much. Chief Lucas stated if Council approves, the order will be placed
the next day and testing will be going on in the fall.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid AMK Services at a price
of $185,964. Council Member Waite made a motion to approve awarding the bid to
AMK Services, Council Member Aseere made a second. Roll was called and the
votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Brandon Voelker
Mr. Voelker stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated Walgreens is partnering with Kroger to offer grocery pickup
at Walgreens. He stated the store will requires a stage 2 plan for new signage
and will pass along more information as he has it. Mr. Moriconi stated the new
dump truck came in today for Public Services.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Party in the Park concerts will continue this
summer on the second Thursday of June, July and August. He congratulated
Captain Russ Wood for graduating the FBI – Class 274 and Sergeant Nate Fuson
for graduating from Criminal Justice Training. Mayor Reinersman stated the
police have purchased a new pickup truck with drug seizure money to help with
events throughout the year.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:41 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
February 4, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 4, 2019               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
4, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Lucas Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen and Greg Waite. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack
Gatlin and Finance Director Terri Hudson.
Approval of the January 7, 2019 Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the council meeting held on January
7, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
council meeting held on January 7, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proclamation: Congenital Heart Defect Awareness Week in Independence
Mayor Reinersman proclaimed the week of February 7th – 14th, 2019 will be
hereby be known as Congenital Heart Defect Awareness Week.
Municipal Order No. 2019-MO-01 – Modifying Brick Wrap Requirement
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2019-MO-01 which modifies the
brick wrap requirement for Grand Communities LTD. Mr. Moriconi stated in 2001,
there was an ordinance in reference to brick wrap and design standards within
Sycamore Creek. Mayor Reinersman stated there are new available materials that
can be used that are just as nice as or even nicer than brick. Mr. Gatlin read
Municipal Order No. 2019-MO-01.
Jason Wisniewski, Vice President of Planning and Zoning for Grand Communities,
3940 Olympic Boulevard, Erlanger, KY 41018, stated the homes will be in the
$300,000s based on the elevations in the packets council was given.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No 2019-MO-01.
Council Member Aseere so moved with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was
called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2019-R-02- Interlocal Agreement with PDS for HVAC Inspections
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No 2019-R-02 which authorizes the Mayor
to sign an Interlocal Agreement with Planning and Development Services for HVAC
inspections. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2019-R-02. He stated this is a
housekeeping item and will not change the process of the city’s building
inspector performing the HVAC inspections. Mr. Gatlin stated the state gave the
city a 90 day extension in December and has not yet approved the agreement. Mr.
Gatlin stated council will be voting to authorize the Mayor to sign an
interlocal agreement similar to the presented document and there could be minor
changes made by the state.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-02.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll
was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2019-R-03- Interlocal Agreement for Kenton County S.W.A.T.
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2019-R-03 which authorizes the Mayor
to sign an Interlocal Agreement with several other cities and counties for the
S.W.A.T. team. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2019-R-03.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-03.
Council Member Waite so moved with a second by Council Member Aseere. Roll was
called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2019-EO-03- Re-appointment of Jim Brewer to the Kenton
County Joint Board of Adjustment
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2019-EO-03 to re-appoint Jim
Brewer to the Kenton County Joint Board of Adjustments.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated 4060 Richardson Road had several liens and delinquent taxes
and the foreclosure process began about a year ago. He stated the courthouse
auction will now be held on February 12, 2019. Mr. Gatlin stated someone will
need to purchase for at least $3,350. Mr. Gatlin stated the city would like to
purchase the property if there are no other offers for 2/3 of fair market value
and council would need to make a motion to proceed if there are no other
bidders.
Council Member Brinker made a motion to approve the city bid on the property up
to $3,350 and seconded by Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and votes
were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Z21 zoning update project is still in process and PDS
will be presenting at the March council meeting. He added the state is
currently doing a study of the intersection of Madison Pike and SR 536 near
Deaton’s Greenhouse to see if a light and crosswalk is needed in that area.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the audit was clean and there were no recommendations
for procedure changes. Mrs. Hudson explained there were no findings or
qualifiers during the audit.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to accept the audit for fiscal year ending
on June 30, 2018. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council
Member Waite. Roll was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried 6-0.
He added the Simon Kenton Cheerleaders were heading to Nationals next weekend
and wished them good luck. Mayor Reinersman stated Independence has also been
named number 2 on the list of the safest cities in Kentucky and thanked our
Police Department and residents for keeping Independence safe.
Council Member Engelman stated Independence Gives First donation is collecting
for Milestones. Mayor Reinersman stated the outreach program is going really
well and thanked Lisa Davis for getting it off the ground.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:02 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
March 4, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 4, 2019               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 4,
2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and a couple of local
boy scouts in the audience led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen
led the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members
registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Lucas Deaton, Amy Engelman, and
Carol Franzen. Council Member Greg Waite was absent. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the February 4, 2019 Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the council meeting held on February
4, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
council meeting held on February 4, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proclamation: Liam Blanchet
Mayor Reinersman presented a proclamation to Liam Blanchet for achieving Eagle
Scout status by creating a memorial at Summit View Academy.
Z21 Presentation: Megan Bessey with Planning and Development Services
Dennis Gordon, Executive Director at Planning and Development Services (PDS)
gave a brief overview of the Z21 project, stating it is the first major update
for Kenton County. He stated 13 out of the 20 Kenton County cities are
currently participating in the project.
Megan Bessey, Principal Zoning Official at PDS presented the Z21 update
highlighting the three phases. She stated the first phase was a professional
audit, second was creating a blue print code and the third phase is
implementation. Ms. Bessey stated PDS is moving into phase three which includes
the condensing and streamlining of zone codes across the participating cities.
She added the new code will be electronic and user friendly which allows for
easier navigation and understanding. Ms. Bessey stated the plan is to present
the final documents and new ordinances to each city in April.
Award Bid: Madison Pike Sidewalk Project
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids received for the Madison Pike Sidewalk
Project. He stated the engineer’s estimate for the project was $379,200. Mayor
Reinersman stated two bids were received; JPS Construction for $385,600 and TMS
Construction for $409,860. He stated the project will begin in May and
recommended to award the bid to JPS Construction.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid for the Madison Pike
Sidewalk Project to JPS Construction for $385,600. Council Member Franzen so
moved with a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he and his office sent delinquent tax letters to around 80
properties which were two or more years’ delinquent.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman congratulated Council Member Franzen on her award for coach of
the year for the boys swim team at Simon Kenton High School.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 7:45 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
April 1, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of April 1, 2019               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 1,
2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Greg
Waite, and Carol Franzen. Council Members Lucas Deaton and Amy Engelman were
absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the March 4, 2019 Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the council meeting held on March 4,
2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
council meeting held on March 4, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proclamation: Parkinson's Disease
Mayor Reinersman presented a proclamation announcing April 2019 will be
Parkinson's disease awareness month. Dave Shields of the band White Liger
thanked Mayor Reinersman and invited all to the Rock on the James Benefit
concert where his band will be performing on April 27th at Southgate House
Revival.
Police Recognitions
Police Chief Lucas recognized Officers Michael Haught and Kyle Wallace for
their outstanding service by providing CPR to a victim which saved his life. He
stated Captain Russ Wood and Sergeant Nate Fuson nominated the two officers for
the Life Saving Award through the National Awards Program for the American
Police Officers Hall of Fame. Chief Lucas presented the Life Saving Awards to
the two officers.
Resolution No. 2019-R-04 - Malco Lawn Services- Contract Extension
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2019-R-04 which extends the contract
with Malco Lawn Services an additional two years from the original contract
signed in 2016. He thanked Malco Services for always going above and beyond
their duties. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2019-R-04.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-04.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Concrete Bid Award
Mayor Reinersman presented concrete bids for city street projects. Mr. Moriconi
stated SRM is to be the lowest bid with $1,110 per truck, based on yardage. He
stated public services has several tear out jobs planned for summer. Public
Services Director, Ken Hicks, explained to council SRM is great to work with,
customer services is great, and they are always on time.
Mayor called for a motion to award the concrete bid to SRM. Council Member
Aseere so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carries, 4-0.
Attorney's Report - Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated the property located 4060 Richardson Road is in the final
stages of being sold to a new owner the city will recoup some of their funds.
He added his office mailed certified letters to properties with two or more
years that are delinquent on their property taxes and has generated some
payments.
City Administrator Report - Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he's been working with department heads on the annual
budget. He added the franchise contract for fiber optics is in process and will
be coming to council shortly. Mr. Moriconi thanked Ken Hicks, the Public
Services Director, for working with the state contractor to put in an ADA
crosswalk at Centennial Blvd. and Madison Pk. He stated there is a downtown
sidewalk meeting scheduled this week and hopes to have the project started in
May. Mr. Moriconi stated the city has launched the Reach Alert System. Mayor
Reinersman stated it's a great way to communicate to citizens regarding
emergency alerts as well as event reminders.
Mayor's Report - Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Business Association will be meeting
for their annual Spring Clean Up meeting at Memorial Park on April 6th. He
stated the cleanup will be focused on the Independence Towne Center. Mayor
Reinersman stated the Hickory Grove's Easter egg hunt will be held on April
13th. He congratulated Council Member Franzen on receiving the coach of the
year award for the boys swim team at Simon Kenton High School.
Council Member Brinker reminded everyone that solicitor's need a city-issued
solicitor's permit to legally solicit door to door and to notify dispatch if
solicitors are knocking without a permit.
Council Member Franzen stated potholes have been a problem. Mr. Moriconi stated
SR 17, SR 536, Turkeyfoot Road and Taylor Mill Road are all state roads to
maintain and it's been hard to fill with continual rain.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:35 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
May 6, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 6, 2019               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 6,
2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Greg Waite, Carol
Franzen, and Amy Engelman. Council Members Lucas Deaton and Tom Brinker were
absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the April 1, 2019 Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the Council Minutes for the council meeting held on April 1,
2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
council meeting held on April 1, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proclamation: Eagle Scout Patrick Hutchinson
Mayor Reinersman presented a proclamation to Pat Hutchinson for achieving Eagle
Scout status by building cubbies at St. Patrick’s preschool and painting a
learning tree mural.
Proposed Ordinance-LSI Occupational Credit – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance for the LSI Occupational
Credit. He stated LSI will create 22 new jobs in Independence and will receive
0.5% off of payroll tax to the new employees as long as they are Kentucky
residents. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2019-R-05 – MRA Cooperative Agreement
Mayor Reinersman proposed Resolution No. 2019-R-05 which adopts and approves
the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract between the city, the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
Municipal Aid. He stated the city’s apportionment of the Municipal Road Aid
Funds for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019 is $496,411.98. Mr. Gatlin
read Resolution No. 2019-R-05.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-05.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Proposed Ordinance- Adopting an Amended Budget for 2018-2019- 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts the amended budget
for 2018-2019. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance- Adopting 2019-2020 Budget- 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented his annual budget address and proposed ordinance
which adopts the budget for the 2019-2020 fiscal year. He stated property taxes
will not be increased due to the increasing amount of tangible taxes, police
will receive a $1.00 raise across the department and each officer will receive
a body cameras and taser at the officer’s request. Mayor Reinersman stated
there will be $1.2 million in road projects this year and the city will
continue to save for future projects. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance- Adopting the Employee Pay and Classification Plan- 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts the employee pay
and classification plan for 2019-2020. He stated the plan is based on the
previous year’s study as well as this year’s study on the police department.
Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he recently mailed follow up letters to delinquent properties
and payments were continuing to trickle in for past due property owners.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the water mains are being replaced along Cox Road and
Oliver Road. He stated the pot holes are still happened and to remind residents
that State Route 17 and 536 are state roads.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated Police Chief Lucas was appointed to the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Council. He stated the city will host 3 concerts during the summer
Party in the Park at Memorial Park this year. Mayor Reinersman added the
Community Appreciation Day in May at Memorial Park went well and had a good
turnout.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
June 17, 2019
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 17, 2019               City of Independence, KY.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, June 17, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Greg Waite, Carol
Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Amy Engelman, and Tom Brinker. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Attorney Jack Gatlin, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special Council Meeting was being held to
discuss and take action on the following business items:
APPROVAL OF PUBLIC HEARING MINUTES: Public Hearing of Jay 6, 2019
APPROVAL OF COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of May 6, 2019
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-01: LSI Occupational Credit – 2nd Reading
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-02: Adopting an Amended Budget for 2018-2019 – 2nd Reading
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-03: Adopting 2019-2020 Budget – 2nd Reading
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-O-04: Adopting the Employee Pay and Classification Plan –
2nd Reading
RESOLUTION NO. 2019-R-06: SR536 Grant Application
2019 STREET PROJECT BID AWARDS
ATTORNEY’S REPORT
CITY ADMINISTRATOR’S REPORT
MAYOR’S REPORT
ADJOURNMENT
Approval of the May 6, 2019 Public Hearing Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the public hearing minutes for the public hearing held on
May 6, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the minutes for the public
hearing held on May 6, 2019. Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by
Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Approval of the May 6, 2019 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular meeting minutes for the council meeting held on
May 6, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on May 6, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes.
Ordinance No. 2019-O-01- LSI Occupational Credit – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2019-O-01 which allows an occupational
credit to LSI for creating 22 new jobs in Independence. He added LSI will
receive 0.5% off of payroll tax to the new employees as long as they are
Kentucky residents. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2019-O-01 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2019-O-01 for the
LSI Occupational Credit. Council Member Aseere so moved, with a second by
Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2019-O-02 – Adopting an Amended Budget for 2018-2019 – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2019-O-02 which adopts the amended
budget for the 2018-2019 fiscal year. Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2019-O-02 a
second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2019-O-02 to
adopt the amended budget for the 2018-2019 fiscal year. Council Member Franzen
so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and the
votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2019-O-03 – Adopting 2019-2020 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented his annual budget address along with Ordinance No.
2019-O-03 which adopts the 2019-2020 fiscal year budget. He stated there will
not be a tax increase this year and upcoming year is focused on road projects.
Mr. Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2019-O-03 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2019-O-03 to
adopt the 2019-2020 fiscal year budget. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2019-O-04–Adopting the Employee Pay and Classification Plan -2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2019-O-04 which adopts the employee
pay and classification plan for the 2019-2020 fiscal year. Mr. Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2019-O-04 a second reading.
Mr. Moriconi stated there was an $800 change on the maximum for the Parks and
Recreation Facilitator to allow for overtime which wasn’t originally
calculated. Council Member Aseere asked how often the pay rates are reviewed.
Mayor Reinersman stated a market analysis is reviewed every four years.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2019-O-04 for
adopting the employee pay and classification for the 2019-2020 fiscal year.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2019-R-06 – SR 536 Grant Application
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2019-R-06 which allows the city to
pledge 1% (up to $250,000) of the total cost of the project regarding State
Route 536. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2019-R-06.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-06.
Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
2019 Street Project Bid Awards
Mayor Reinersman presented the 2019 street projects bid awards. Mr. Moriconi
stated there are two engineering firms working on three different road
projects.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award JPS Construction the project for
Pritchard Lane and Founders Lane for $585,247. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award Eaton Asphalt the project for St.
Francis, McMillan and Belle for $152,200. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award Paul Michels & Sons the project
for Bugle Court for $75,115. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by
Council Member Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report
Jack Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Chris Moriconi stated the city has been receiving a lot of positive feedback
related to the installation of the flag at the welcome sign at the top of 17.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the July council meeting will likely be cancelled.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:44p.m.
 
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
July, 2019 Meeting/Cancelled
August 5, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 5, 2019               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 5,
2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Carol Franzen, Lucas
Deaton, Tom Brinker and Amy Engelman. Council Member Greg Waite was absent.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard,
Attorney Jack Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the June 17, 2019 Special Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the meeting minutes for the special meeting held on June 17,
2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on June 17, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Deaton. Motion carried with all ayes.
Recognition of Police Explorer Matalyn Colson
Lieutenant Boyle recognized Police Explorer Matalyn Colson for her 4 years with
the Police Explorer Program and congratulated on her recent promotion to
Sergeant.
Residents from Glaser Drive
Several residents addressed the Mayor and council with concerns of recent
neighbor activity on Glaser Drive. They stated a new family recently moved in
and speculate there are multiple families living on the single family
residence, it’s creating excessive on-street parking and traffic as well as the
possibility of a business being ran out of the residential property. Chief
Lucas stated this was the first he heard about these issues and will look into
the matter with Mr. Moriconi and they will check with Planning and Development
Services as well to address the issues.
Brushy Fork Presentation - Banklick Watershed Council
Nicole Clements, Watershed Coordinator for the Banklick Watershed Council,
presented the Brushy Fork project which is at the end of Canberra. She stated
there are over 56 acres of high quality forest and wetland expanding the Brushy
Fork preserve. Ms. Clements stated the Watershed Council have $235,000 and are
asking the city for the remaining $15,000 to obtain the property and move
forward with the Brushy Fork project.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve spending $15,000 towards the
Brushy Fork Project out of the capital improvement fund. Council Member Franzen
so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2019-R-07 – Wired Telecommunication Franchise Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2019-R-07 which creates and
establishes a bid for a Wired Telecommunication Franchise Agreement. He stated
the agreement has a 1.3% franchise fee, which mirrors the state’s rate. Council
Member Deaton questioned if the rate was high enough. Mr. Gatlin explained most
cities are following the state and the fee must be rationally related to the
cost for the city. There was some discussion by council and it was agreed upon
to change the initial period to five (5) years and auto renew for three (3)
terms of five (5) years.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-07 for
the Wired Telecommunication Franchise Agreement with an initial five (5) year
term and auto renew for three (3) terms of five (5) years. Council Member
Aseere so moved, with a second by Council Member Engleman. Motion carried, 5-0.
Bid Award – Memorial Park Playground Equipment
Mayor Reinersman presented the bid explaining it was a reverse bid. He stated
the city set a budget and received seven (7) options. Mayor Reinersman stated
the committee recommended the Miracle Bid. Nita Brake explained the park will
be closed 1 to 2 weeks to take out and replace the park equipment and the
vendor will be paid once the project is completed. Mr. Moriconi explained a
Public Works employee is a certified playground inspector and will inspect when
the job is completed.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the bid award for Memorial Park
Playground Equipment to Miracle. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second
by Council Member Deaton. Motion carried, 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the downtown sidewalk project looks great. He added that
the Kenton County Independence Station Road project is almost complete. Chief
Lucas stated they are doing everything they can to minimize speeding through
the detour including overtime detail, speed signs and installing temporary
speed humps.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Celebration went well and thanked
Council Member Brinker for tackling an electrical issue prior to the event. He
stated Assistant Chief Lonaker has retired and thanked him for his service.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:45 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
September 9, 2019   
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 9, 2019             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
9, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Carol
Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman and Greg Waite. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack
Gatlin and Assistant City Clerk Karen Kearney.
Approval of the August 5, 2019 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes held on August 5, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on August 5, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes.
Resolution No. 2019-R-08 – Re-Appointment of NKREA Committee Members
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2019-R-08 which re-appoints Committee
Members Marcus Carey, Robert F. Greene, Darryl Cummins, Robert Sanders, Tom
Quirk and Wesley Williams and appoints Bryce C. Rhoades to the Northern
Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority (NKREA) for the term of February 1, 2019
through January 31, 2021. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2019-R-08.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-08 for
appointments of NKREA committee members. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance - Adopting 2019 Tax Rates - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which adopts the 2019 tax
rates of $.271 per $100 for real property and $.642 per $100 for personal
property. Council Member Aseere stated he appreciated the attached chart which
showed the tax rate comparison with other cities. Mayor Reinersman stated this
will be the fourth year the tax rates have stayed the same. Attorney Gatlin
gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Franzen recused herself from the rest of the meeting due to a
conflict of interest with the map amendment issue of in the next agenda item
regarding the Taylor Mill Road Map Amendment.
Resolution No. 2019-R09 - Taylor Mill Road Map Amendment Denial
Mayor Reinersman stated the 6420 Taylor Mill Road map amendment was previously
been discussed at the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) public hearing
on August 6, 2019. He read through a list of items that were discussed at the
public hearing: road access to Sycamore Drive, current professional office zone
was a good buffer between retail and residential, additional lighting, access
to route 16 is dangerous, the City does not need another dollar store, retail
would only bring in low paying wages, increased traffic noise, the owner knew
the zone classification when it was purchased, etc.
Attorney Gatlin stated for council to overturn the KCPC decision, there will
need to be four votes to modify or overturn the KCPC decision. He added that
without four votes either way, the conditional recommendation by KCPC would
will pass by default in 90 days.
Rich Monson of 666 Sycamore Drive, Independence, expressed the state did not
give the variance to build the Dollar General. Attorney Gatlin stated this was
not part of the KCPC hearing record so it is not appropriate for council to
consider the states preliminary indication. Attorney Tom Theissen, who is
representing Mr. Bridges, made an objection to the record. He stated what Mr.
Monson said was not completely accurate and that council must rely what is on
the record from the KCPC hearing which did not include the state variance.
Laura Cochran, 689 Sycamore Drive, Independence, addressed council with her
concerns about the property being in a mixed zone and traffic issues. Attorney
Gatlin explained the property is currently zoned as professional office and the
owners are seeking to make a zone change to neighborhood commercial. He stated
the mixed use zone is what is referenced in the comprehensive plan. Ms. Cochran
stated her concern about the possible increase in traffic.
Daniel Wright, 688 Sycamore Drive, Independence, stated he lives two houses
behind the property. He stated he heard at the KCPC hearing that Dollar General
would not be interested in building on the property if access was not granted
off of KY16. Attorney Theissen stated he would address these concerns when he
has the opportunity to speak. Mr. Wright stated he is concerned with traffic,
speeding, and multiple entrances currently on Taylor Mill Road and there is no
need to add more issues to the problem.
Zachary Zurich, 6433 Taylor Mill Road, Independence, stated he is one of the
owners of the Cherokee Shopping Center and they are planning to make a
substantial investment renovating the existing building in hopes to rent out
the vacant space. Mr. Zurich stated there is already available retail space in
that center and does not see a need to build a new building.
Rich Monson, 666 Sycamore Drive, Independence, stated the creek behind his home
has had serious erosion over the years with the growing population and
businesses and is concerned that his backyard will eventually be taken over by
the creek.
Don Gubser, 6439 Taylor Mill Road, Independence, is the owner of the Cherokee
Drug Shoppe for 33 years, if the dollar store goes in it will not affect his
business. He is worried about the traffic and recent accidents.
Attorney Tom Theissen with Strauss Troy, is representing Dollar General as well
as Mr. Gailen Bridges. He stated the site has been vacant for years. Attorney
Theissen provided council with a packet of information that was presented at
the public hearing. He stated the applicant is limited to what is on the
approved development plan. Attorney Theissen stated the applicant understands
he has to comply with the conditions on the staff report such as lighting,
landscaping, roof, parking, encroachment permit on KY16, etc. He stated he
understands if the state says no to the encroachment permit to KY16 that the
development cannot move forward. Attorney Theissen stated at the afternoon peak
of business, Dollar General‘s traffic generates less than one car per minute.
Council Member Waite stated his concern about the anticipated 522 vehicles
coming in and out of the Dollar General per day per the engineer’s letter. He
stated there are already too many curb cuts and the street is already
dangerous. Mr. Theissen stated he agreed pulling out to the left has poor sight
distance but a Dollar General is not a heavy traffic influence as compared to
other types of businesses.
Gailen Bridges, property owner of 6420 Taylor Mill Road, stated he’s trying to
add a new development in a dying area. He stated if the Dollar General doesn’t
happen, he could split the parcel into two sites and two doctor offices could
go in which could possibly create more traffic. Mr. Bridges stated the question
for council is, does it fit into the plan and does it fit into mixed use. He
stated he’s not sure what will happen if the state says they can’t use KY16 as
an access point and the city says they can’t use Sycamore. He stated he’s
entitled to use one of those roads and if necessary, he’ll file a lawsuit to
help determine that.
Council Member Brinker made a motion for a short recess, Council Member Deaton
seconded. Motion carried with all ayes and recess began at 8:28 p.m. Council
Member Aseere made a motion to go back into session, Council Member Waite
seconded. Motion carried with all ayes and the meeting resumed at 8:33 p.m.
Council Member Aseere made a motion approve Resolution No. 2019-R-09 which
denies the zone change and overturns the KCPC recommendation on the bases that
it is not consistent with the suburban element of the comprehensive plan and
that the professional office is zone appropriate for the area. Council Member
Deaton seconded. Motion carried, 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated St. Francis, Belle and McMillan are being blacktopped this
week and the concrete tear out on Pritchard Road is also going on. He stated
the playground equipment will be torn out and replaced in Memorial Park
beginning the week of October 7th.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Volunteer Corps is growing with about
160 signed up so far and they have several events coming up. He stated each
month they receive donations for a various charities, they are also planning a
community garden and trail system in Memorial Park.
Council Member Aseere questioned how to change the speed limit on Taylor Mill
Road. Mayor Reinersman stated it’s a state road so we would need to ask the
state to consider the change. Mr. Moriconi stated he will reach out to the
state to do a speed study.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:57 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
September 16, 2019
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 16, 2019               City of Independence, KY.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met in a special session
on Monday, September 16, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the
Independence Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with
Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to
order and opened with the Pledge of Allegiance. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Greg Waite, Carol Franzen, Lucas
Deaton, Amy Engelman, and Tom Brinker, Council Member Aseere was absent. Also
present was Attorney David Steele and City Clerk Gina Gabbard.
Purpose of the Special Meeting
Mayor Reinersman announced this Special Council Meeting was being held to
discuss and take action on the business of adopting of the 2019 tax rate.  
Ordinance No. 2019-O-05- Adopting 2019 Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2019-O-05 which adopts the tax rates
for the 2019 fiscal year. He stated this is the fourth year the tax rate has
not changed with $.271 per $100 for real property and $.642 per $100 for
personal property. Mr. Steele gave Ordinance No. 2019-O-05 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2019-O-05 to
adopt the 2019 tax rates. Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by
Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 5-0.
Attorney’s Report
David Steele stated Attorney Jack Gatlin asked him to invite council to the
Open House on September 19, 2019 to check out the new office space for the
Gatlin & Voelker Law Firm.
City Administrator’s Report
Chris Moriconi was not present so nothing was reported.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated he had nothing to report.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:07p.m.
                  ____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
October 7, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 7, 2019             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
7, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Carol
Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman and Greg Waite. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney
Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the September 9, 2019 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
September 9, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on September 9, 2019. Council Member Aseere so moved, with
a second by Council Member Brinker. Council Member Franzen abstained. Motion
carried, 5-0.
Approval of the September 16, 2019 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the special meeting held on
September 16, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on September 16, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes.
Proclamation for Extra Mile
Mayor Reinersman presented a proclamation to recognize November 1, 2019 as
Extra Mile Day.
Terry Donoghue, 5095 Woodale Ct,  stated the Woodale street sign is spelling
incorrectly as Wooddale. Mr. Moriconi stated a new sign has been ordered and
will be installed in the next week.
Proposed Ordinance – Wireless Franchise Agreement – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which awards a non-exclusive
franchise to MCI/Verizon for a term of five (5) years for a telecommunications
franchise agreement for the construction, placement, maintenance and operation
of a telecommunications system. He stated the agreement includes three (3),
five (5) year renewal options. Mayor Reinersman stated the franchise fee will
be 1.3% of gross receipts. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Executive Order No. 2019-EO-04 – Appointment of Dawn Yates to the Senior Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2019-EO-04 which appoints Dawn
Yates to the Independence Senior Board.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated there are only about 10 properties left that have Fowler
Creek balances.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated since HB69 passed, there has been some discussion with
Kentucky League of Cities and additional investment opportunities will soon be
available for cities and school boards. He stated the playground equipment at
Memorial Park is being removed and new equipment installed.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the city has been made aware of a sober living house
where a privately owned home has a group of recovering addicts living under
house rules. He stated there are several other cities that also have these in
their neighborhoods and there haven’t been any reports of problems. Mayor
Reinersman stated there have been some concerns from neighboring residents and
the police are keeping an eye out in the area. He stated the new Z21 zoning
plan will encompass zoning regulations for sober living houses which will
layout a standard and we can review the plan and decide if we need to implement
our own ordinance.
Jenna Noland, 4012 Flintlock Court, Independence, stated she lives three houses
away from the sober living house at 4006 Flintlock. She stated she would like
to receive a copy of their rules. Mayor Reinersman stated they are operating
through Oxford House and the rules can be obtained through them. Ms. Noland
asked who checks if the tenants of the sober living house are registered sex
offenders. Attorney Gatlin stated they have to keep their address current so it
would be on file with the courts and the distance minimum of 1,000 feet from
school property and playgrounds. Ms. Noland asked how many people are allowed
to live in the house. Mayor Reinersman stated the law treats group homes the
same as single family homes so there is no maximum people allowed to live in
the house.
Mayor Reinersman stated the house is now on the city’s radar and they will be
keeping an eye on the house.
Police Chief Lucas stated the police department has been keeping an eye on the
property for the past month and there hasn’t been any calls made regarding this
property. He stated for residents with concerns over fighting should call
dispatch.
Mayor Reinersman stated Trick or Treat will be on Halloween from 6:00 – 8:00pm,
rain or shine.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 7.50 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
November 4, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of November 4, 2019             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
4, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Amy Engelman and Greg Waite. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney
Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the October 7, 2019 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
October 7, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on October 7, 2019. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2019-O-06 – Wireless Franchise Agreement – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2019-O-06 which awards a non-exclusive
franchise to MCI/Verizon for a term of five (5) years for a telecommunications
franchise agreement for the construction, placement, maintenance and operation
of a telecommunications system. He stated the agreement includes three (3),
five (5) year renewal options. Mayor Reinersman stated the franchise fee will
be 1.3% of gross receipts. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2019-O-06 a
second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2019-O-06 which
awards a non-exclusive franchise to MCI/Verizon for a telecommunications
franchise agreement. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council
Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexation of Properties on Madison Pike/Patriot Way – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which annexes properties
located at 5052 Madison Pike, 5056 Madison Pike and 5038-42 Madison Pike. Mr.
Moriconi shared a map which shows where the three parcels are in which will be
annexed. He stated these properties were intended to be annexed in 2015 but the
process was finalized. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading and stated it was a housekeeping issue. He stated Ordinance No. 2015-O-
25 was passed in 2015 and no petitions were filed within 60 days of the
passing.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment for Turkeyfoot Road/Independence Station
Road – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which approves a map amendment
for the 6.2 acres located on the corner of Independence Station Road and
Turkeyfoot Road. He stated Mr. Moriconi met with Dr. Quast regarding the map
amendment. Mayor Reinersman stated no new evidence can be presented that wasn’t
discussed at the Kenton County Planning Commission hearing. Attorney Gatlin
stated Planning and Development Services did not recommend the zone change. He
stated if council does nothing within 90 days, the non-favorable recommendation
of approval decision stands and the zone change will not be approved. Mr.
Gatlin stated the ordinance reads that the property has to be at least 5 acres
for a zone change so Dr. Quast had to include adjacent property to meet the
minimum of 5 acres for the zone change application, so it includes other
parcels besides the Fifth Third Bank property.
Tom Neinaber, 7699 Ewing Blvd, Florence, KY – Mr. Neinaber stated he is
representing Dr. Quast. He stated the bank is a conditional use on the
residential zoned property. Mr. Neinaber stated Fifth Third Bank has put a 10
year restriction on the property to prohibit another bank from coming in. He
stated Dr. Quast has a pending offer on the property contingent on the zone
change to Neighborhood Commercial. Mr. Neinaber stated there were concerns from
the residents of curb cuts and storm water runoff at the public hearing. He
stated if the zone change is approved, Dr. Quast can start working on a Stage I
plan for the property and will go back through the process with the Kenton
County Planning Commission.
John Scheben, 895 Independence Station Rd, Independence, KY – Mr. Scheben
stated he is opposed to the zone change. He believes Independence Station Road
should be a residential road and stated there are other commercial property
options other than re-zoning the bank as Neighborhood Commercial (NC).
David Shafer, 887 Independence Station R, Independence, KY – Mr. Shafer stated
he’s concerned what the property could be used for if re-zoned to NC. Mayor
Reinersman stated some of the possible conditional uses within the current
residential zone are funeral homes, nursing homes, libraries, playground, etc.
John Powers, 890 Independence Station Road, Independence, KY – Mr. Powers
stated he’s the adjoining property owner to the bank property. He stated the
traffic is a big concern with getting in and out of his driveway and constantly
witnesses wrecks and vehicle backups. Mr. Powers stated he feels the traffic
study should be done prior to approving any zone change to see how much traffic
the area could handle.
There was some discussion about carving out 5 acres of the 6.2 acres to have
re-zoned to keep some of the Quast property residential. Council Member Franzen
stated she feels like council would be jumping through a bunch of hoops to help
to re-zone this property without knowing the developer’s plans. She added that
the developer already has commercial property available and ready to develop
down the road from the area in discussion. Mr. Gatlin stated if council doesn’t
take any legislative action, the staff recommendation of not approving will
stand and this plan dissolves.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to table the first reading of the proposed
ordinance for a map amendment for a zone change for 30 days so Dr. Quast and
the neighboring residents can discuss and try to come to an agreement. Council
Member Deaton made a second. Roll was called and vote was unanimous. Motion
carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2019-R-10 – Stage I Development Plan for 2031 Centennial Blvd
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2019-R-10 which approves a revised
Stage I development plan for a proposed Burger King restaurant at 2031
Centennial Blvd. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2019-R-10.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-10 which
approved the revised stage I development plan for 2031 Centennial Blvd. Council
Member Aseere so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried
with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated there will be a need for executive session to discuss pending
litigation in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c).
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the city has received a grant to repave Cody Road as well
as the bridge but the project isn’t scheduled until 2021. He stated that Public
Services has been patching in the meantime and he hopes to move up the
resurfacing project of Cody Road to the spring of 2020. Mr. Moriconi stated
Sylvan Drive has been torn out and is being re-paved so will be closed for the
week.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the new playground equipment has been installed at
Memorial Park. He stated the Independence Ball is coming up and recognizes
veterans as well as police and fire. Mayor Reinersman stated it is modeled
after a military ball and is open to civilians.
Executive Session
Council Member Engleman made a motion at 8:40 p.m. to go into executive session
in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c). Council Member Deaton seconded. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion at 8:55 p.m. to enter back into regular
session. Council Member Engelman seconded. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:55 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
December 2, 2019
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 2, 2019             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
2, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Carol
Franzen, Lucas Deaton and Greg Waite. Council Members Brinker and Engelman were
absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the November 4, 2019 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
November 4, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on November 4, 2019. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Recognition of Caleb Haven – Mayor Reinersman stated Explorer Caleb Haven was
going to be recognized as a Special Officer but he was too sick and unable to
attend the meeting.
KLC Investment Pool
Southgate Mayor Jim Hamberg presented information regarding the KLC Investment
Pool. He stated the passing of House Bill 69 can now invest in themselves
within a local pool. Mayor Hamberg stated there are five funds available to
choose from and they are Money Market, Government Bond, Corporate Bond, S&P 500
Equity Index and Dividend Focus Equity. He stated the board decided to go with
PNC Bank for the investment accounts. Mayor Hamberg stated Mark Snyder and Dawn
Harlow are the contacts for cities that have questions regarding the investment
pool. He stated the fees are capped at a quarter of a point with PNC.
Mr. Moriconi stated the investment policy will be updated to reflect the
additional funds of the S&P 500 Equity and the Dividend Focus Equity Fund. He
stated if Council is supportive of the city participating, the city would need
to update the investment policy and would need to authorize the Mayor to enter
into an Interlocal Agreement. Mr. Moriconi stated there is a 20% investment
cap.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment for Turkeyfoot Road/Independence Station
Road – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which approves a map amendment
for 5 acres located on the corner of Independence Station Road and Turkeyfoot
Road. He stated the map amendment is
David Shafer, 887 Independence Station R, Independence, KY – Mr. Schaefer
stated his appreciation to council and Dr. Quast for their cooperation with
trying to come to an agreement on the map amendment issue. He stated he is
still against it and would like the property to stay residential. Mr. Schafer
stated he understands there are some restricted uses the residents would like
added if passed. He stated he is against anything that omits food smells going
in on the property.
Tom Neinaber, 7699 Ewing Blvd, Florence, KY – Mr. Neinaber stated the Stage III
plan that Dr. Quast submitted removed the second entrance, cut down the square
footage from 31,000 square feet to 18,000 square feet and increased the
residential buffer lot. He stated they also put together a list of restricted
uses for the property including drive through restaurants and pool halls.
John Scheben, 895 Independence Station Rd, Independence, KY – Mr. Scheben
stated his appreciation for the cooperation from Dr. Quast as well as the city
on this zone change. He stated he’s happy with the latest plan.
Jack Gatlin stated council would need to make a motion to overturn the decision
of the public hearing and the majority of the legislative body would have to
vote in favor to proceed with the zone change. He stated first reading of the
proposed ordinance would also include a few changes such as the acreage
changing would be adjusted as well as item 3 and would be adding items 3
through 8 which includes adoption of plan 3, update of residential buffer lot,
applicant shall meet buffer requirements, lighting standards and a list of
eliminated permitted uses for the property.
Council Member Aseere made a motion to overturn the recommendations of the
Kenton County Planning Commission with changes to acreage, applicant
requirements eliminated permitted uses and move forward with the zone change,
with a second from Council Member Franzen. Roll was called and pass
unanimously, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2019-O-07 – Annexation of Properties on Madison Pike/Patriot Way
– 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2019-O-07 which annexes properties
located at 5052 Madison Pike, 5056 Madison Pike and 5038-42 Madison Pike.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2019-O-07 a second reading. He stated this
annexation ordinance was passed back in 2015 but the process of filing wasn’t
completed.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2019-O-07 which
annexes properties at the corner of Madison Pike and Patriot Way. Council
Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried
with all ayes, 4-0.
Resolution No. 2019-R-11 – Stage II Development Plan for 2031 Centennial Blvd
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2019-R-11 which approves the Stage II
development plan for a proposed a Burger King restaurant at 2031 Centennial
Blvd. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2019-R-11.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2019-R-11 which
approved the Stage II development plan for 2031 Centennial Blvd. Council Member
Aseere so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with
all ayes, 4-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated there is a need for executive session in regards to KRS
61.810(c) for pending litigation.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated Hartland subdivision will be having trip hazards on the
sidewalks repaired in the near future. He stated his appreciation for the
community outreach for the Steinford Toy Drive.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Miss Independence Pageant is on Friday night which
kicks off the Christmas Walk weekend. He stated a crossing guard has been added
to assist with the safety of the Simon Kenton students crossing Shaw Road in
the mornings and afternoons.
Executive Session
Council Member Franzen made a motion at 8:25 p.m. to go into executive session
in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c). Council Member Waite seconded. Motion
carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Council Member Waite made a motion at 8:53 p.m. to enter back into regular
session. Council Member Franzen seconded. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:53 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
December 16, 2019
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 16, 2019          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
16, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance and stated the purpose of the special meeting. Council
Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, and Greg
Waite. Council Members Brinker and Deaton were absent. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Ordinance No. 2019-O-08 – Map Amendment for Turkeyfoot Road/Independence
Station Road – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2019-O-08 which approves a map
amendment for 5 acres located on the corner of Independence Station Road and
Turkeyfoot Road. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2019-O-08 a second reading.
He stated the map amendment re-zones the 5 acre property from a R1D
(Residential) to a NC (Neighborhood Commercial) zone. Attorney Gatlin stated
the proposed zone change does include restrictions such as indoor batting
cages, laundromats, car washes, parking garages/lots, liquor stores, post
office, auto parts store, drive thru restaurants, sports bars, service stations
and pool halls. He stated this ordinance overturns the Kenton County Planning
Commission’s recommendations from their public hearing held on October 3, 2019
and would require all four yes votes from the attending council members to
pass.
Tom Neinaber, 7699 Ewing Blvd, Florence, KY – Mr. Neinaber stated he
appreciates all of the cooperation from the city, council and residents to help
come to an agreement on the zone change.
Council Member Aseere stated he understands the residents are concerned with a
sports bar going in and questioned if a percentage could also be added in
regards to alcohol sales. After some discussion, it was agreed that 60/40 would
be a suitable percentage for alcohol sales if a restaurant was planned for this
property.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2019-O-08 which
approves a map amendment for the corner of Turkeyfoot Road and Independence
Station Road. Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second by Council Member
Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman wished everyone a Merry Christmas.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Aseere to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:18 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
2020 Minutes
January 6, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 6, 2020            City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
6, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton and Greg Waite. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney
Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the December 2, 2019 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
December 2, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on December 2, 2019. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Approval of the December 16, 2019 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
December 16, 2019.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on December 16, 2019. Council Member Engelman so moved,
with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Police Promotions
Police Chief Tony Lucas stated there has been several recent retirements which
has created promotion opportunities within the department. The Mayor and Chief
Lucas presented promotional plaques to the new Captains Jake Boyle and Brian
Ferayorni, new Sergeants Joe Moffett, Daniel Potts, Mike Brock and Travis Hager
and new Detectives Billy Roberts, Josh Salyers and Matt Fehler.
Executive Order No. 2020-EO-02 – Appointment to Senior Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2020-EO-02 which appoints Tom
Reckers to the Independence Senior Board.
Proposed Ordinance – Amendment to Webster Road Width – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the required width
of Webster Road from twenty two (22) feet to seventeen (17) feet from
Independence Station Road back to the intersection of the access street for the
Meadow Glen development, per Fischer Homes’ request. Mr. Moriconi stated the
current width is twelve (12) feet and with the topography, it’s not feasible to
widen Webster Road to twenty two feet as previously set.
Todd Huss, Fischer Homes, 3940 Olympic Blvd, Erlanger, KY – Mr. Huss stated the
reason Fischer is asking for the change to seventeen feet is due to the
problematic topography and it’s financially unreasonable.
There was some discussion with council and it was stated by Mr. Huss that it’s
not physically possible to widen Webster Road to twenty two feet wide. He
stated there was also easements and right of ways that would have to be
obtained to move forward with the width expansion. Council Member Franzen
stated speeding has been an issue in Meadow Glen for years and they need to
have another entrance for the subdivision.
Mayor Reinersman stated the big issue is the grade on Webster Road and the
steep hill makes it hard to see. He stated the requirement of stubbing in
Webster Road doesn’t have to happen until Fischer has fifty lots left to build.
Mr. Moriconi stated the width of the road is determined on the number of lots
in subdivision. He stated the right turn onto Independence Station Road is
currently tight and something needs to be done.
Mayor Reinersman stated he suggests the builder and the city’s public services
department take a look at the road together to come up with a solution that
will work for everyone. Mr. Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2020-R-01 – Text Amendment for Indoor/Outdoor Storage
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-01 which proposes a text
amendment for indoor/outdoor storage to include language to specify indoor
storage. Mr. Gatlin read Resolution No. 2020-R-01.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-01 which
proposes a text amendment for the definitions of indoor/outdoor storage.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2020-EO-01 – Appointment to PDS Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2020-EO-01 which re-appoints
Mayor Reinersman as the primary representative and Council Member Franzen as
the alternate representative to the Planning and Development Services Council
for the year 2020.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he has nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the National League of Cities (NLC) is wanting to partner
with the city to provide water and sewer line insurance for residents to cover
line breaks and leaks on their property. He stated several other local cities
are utilizing the program and are happy with it.    
Council Member Franzen made a motion to move forward with the NLC Warranty
Program, with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried, 4-2. Council
Members Deaton and Aseere voted no.
Mr. Moriconi stated the Investment Policy will be updated and would allow the
city to join the KLC Investment Pool if council votes in favor to participate.
Council Member Franzen so moved to approve the updated Investment Policy, with
a second from Council Member Brinker. Motion carried 6-0.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated Police Explorer Caleb passed away in December and the
Police Department swore him in as a Special Officer during his final days at
Cincinnati Children’s Hospital. He state TBNK has a new streaming site to watch
city council meetings on demand at TBNK.org/ondemand.
Mayor Reinersman stated there is some reorganization going on for Planning and
Development Services Council. He stated it will keep the twenty (20)
representatives for each jurisdiction and will meet six (6) times a year. He
stated the Management Board will have seven (7) seats and cities with a 15,000+
population will each hold permanent seats.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:36 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
February 3, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 3, 2020             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
3, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and Caleb
Sams led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton and Greg Waite. Council
Member Tom Brinker was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris
Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney David Steele.
Approval of the January 6, 2020 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
January 6, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on January 6, 2020. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 5- 0.
Proclamation: Congenital Heart Defect Awareness Week in Independence
Mayor Reinersman proclaimed the week of February 7th – 14th, 2020 will be
hereby be known as Congenital Heart Defect Awareness Week.
Ordinance No, 2020-O-01– Amendment to Webster Road Width – 2nd Reading (Tabled)
Mayor Reinersman stated the discussed proposed ordinance which amends the
required width of Webster Road has been pulled from the agenda. He stated
Fischer Homes and the Northern Kentucky Water District are in discussions about
this project so it will be tabled for now until they reach an agreement.
Resolution No. 2020-R-02 – Cody Road Grant
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-02 which authorizes the Mayor
to sign any necessary documents relating to the grant to help repave Cody Road
from Banklick Creek to Independence Station Road. He stated the city will be
responsible for 20% of the funding amount. Attorney Steele read Resolution No.
2020-R-02.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-02.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman.
Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2020-R-03 – Investment Pool Authorization
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-03 which authorizes the city’s
participation in the Kentucky League of Cities (KLC) Investment Pool. Attorney
Steele read Resolution No. 2020-R-03.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-03.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Aseere. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2020-R-04 – Municipal Road Aid Cooperative Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-04 which adopts and approves
the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract between the city, the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
Municipal Aid. He stated the city’s apportionment of the Municipal Road Aid
Funds for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020 is $512,913.95. Attorney
Steele read Resolution No. 2020-R-04.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-04.
Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen.
Motion carried, 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – David Steele
Mr. Steele stated he has nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he has nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman presented the annual audit and stated it was clean and no
issues were reported. He expressed his appreciation to Finance Director Terri
Hudson as well as department heads for their efforts throughout the year. Mayor
Reinersman stated the water line insurance coverage offered by NLC (which was
discussed the previous month) confirmed they do require the city’s logo on the
letters they mail out to residents. He stated he agrees with council and isn’t
comfortable putting the city logo on a letter mailed out by NLC, therefore the
city will not be moving forward with NLC.
Executive Session
Council Member Franzen made a motion at 7:37 p.m. to go into executive session
in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(c). Council Member Waite seconded. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion at 7:47 p.m. to enter back into regular
session. Council Member Deaton seconded. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:47 p.m.
   
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
March 2, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 2, 2020            City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 2,
2020 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and several boy scouts
led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll
was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere,
Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton and Greg Waite. Council Member Tom
Brinker was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City
Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the February 3, 2020 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
February 3, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on February 3, 2020. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment to the NSC Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the NSC Zone by
adding self-storage facilities as a conditional use and standards that regulate
how each storage unit is accessed. He stated the amendment was recommended by
PDS Staff and by the Kenton Count Planning Commission. Attorney Gatlin gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2020-R-05 – CERS Freeze
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-05 which petitions the
Governor for relief of the 12% increase for employer pension contributions. He
stated he went to Frankfort and met with Senator Thayer to discuss the possible
increase freeze. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2020-R-05.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-05.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-05 and
Council Member Franzen seconded. Roll was called and motion passed 5-0.
Resolution No. 2020-R-06 – CERS Separation
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-06 which supports HB 484 which
proposes separation of CERS from KRS. He stated that cities, police
departments, fire departments and KLC are attempting to join in support of the
separation. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2020-R-06.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-06.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-06 and
Council Member Engelman seconded. Roll was called and motion passed 5-0.
Declare Surplus Property
Mayor Reinersman stated the city has a 2009 GMC Truck the need declared surplus
property and plans to sell it on www.govedeals.com.
Mayor called for a motion to declare the 2009 GMC Truck surplus property and
sell on www.govdeals.com.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve the declaration of surplus
property of the 2009 GMC Truck, Council Member Aseere seconded. Roll was called
and motion passed 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he appreciates the city allowing his partner David Steele to
fill in for him at the February council meeting.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the city continues to receive calls about the icy road
conditions of Bristow Road at the intersection with the new Fischer
Development. He stated Bristow is a state road and the subdivision is not in
city limits but the city has been in contact with the state about the issue.
Mr. Moriconi stated Oliver is split and the left section is a state road and is
supposed to be repaved later this year.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Parties at the Park are happening with the second
Thursday of the month in June, July and August and this year’s sponsor is Hand
in Hand Realty. He stated the Independence Volunteer Corp is working on a
community garden as well as exercise trails in Memorial Park. Mayor Reinersman
stated the Police Department is finally fully staffed. He stated the Easter Egg
Hunt is scheduled for Saturday, April 4th at Memorial Park.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:46 p.m.
   
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
April 6, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of April 6, 2020            City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met virtually on Monday,
April 6, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. through a video conference with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and several
boy scouts led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Bill Aseere, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, and Greg Waite. Council
Member Tom Brinker was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris
Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Ordinance No. 2020-O-02 – Text Amendment to the NSC Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2020-O-02 which amends the NSC Zone by
adding self-storage facilities as a conditional use and standards that regulate
how each storage unit is accessed. He stated the amendment was recommended by
PDS Staff and by the Kenton Count Planning Commission. Attorney Gatlin read
Ordinance No. 2020-O-02.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-02.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll
was called and motion passed 5-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated the Small Business Association (SBA) has several programs in
place to assist small business and for those owners to reach out for resources.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Independence Business Association (IBA) is also helping
local businesses with available resources. He stated budget meetings will begin
shortly to review the upcoming budget.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated there are now up to 13 COVID-19 deaths in Northern
Kentucky and there are several links available on our website about the virus.
He stated the May Council Meeting will have a more of an extensive agenda
including the budget. Mayor Reinersman stated HB 484 passed which allows CERS
to have its own board. He stated SB249 also passed which freezes the 12%
increase for employer pension contributions, which saves us $133,000 with this
year.
Council Member Aseere stated residents are asking about expired car tags since
the courthouse is closed. Council Member Waite stated it has been extended for
90 days during COVID-19. Council Member Franzen stated the food pantry at
Independence Christian Church is still open if people are in need or are able
to donate. Mayor Reinersman state Generations Church also has a food pantry
open on Saturdays.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:26 p.m.
   
                     ___________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
May 4, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 4, 2020            City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met via video
teleconference on Monday, May 4, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom
Brinker, Lucas Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and
Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the March 2, 2020 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
March 2, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on March 2, 2020. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 6- 0.
Approval of the April 6, 2020 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
April 6, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on April 6, 2020. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
State Representative Kim Moser presented retired firefighter Clint Green with a
citation honoring his service with the Independence Fire Department.
Mayor Reinersman read his budget address and stated with COVID-19 pandemic, the
budget had to be re-done for unforeseen expenses. He stated street projects,
new city vehicles and employee raises and playground improvements are possible
cuts for the upcoming fiscal year. Mayor Reinersman stated there will be two
budgets presented to council; one keeps the rate the same and the other
displays taking the comp rate.
Proposed Ordinance – Amended 2019-2020 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which amends the 2019-2020
Budget. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2020-2021 “A” Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which adopts the “A” Budget which
assumes the comp rate for the 2020-2021 fiscal year. He stated he believes it
is the most prudent course of action based on the many unknowns at this time as
it relates to revenues. Mayor Reinersman stated he hopes by the time we are
ready to proceed with a second reading of either budget in June, we will have a
clearer picture of what lies ahead in terms of the economic impact of COVID-19.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2020-2021 “B” Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which adopts the “B” Budget which
assumes keeping the rate the same for the 2020-2021 fiscal year. Attorney
Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Employee Pay Classification for 2020-2021 - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which adopts the employee pay
classification pay scale for the 2020-2021 fiscal year. Attorney Gatlin gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Animal Control Ordinance Update – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which adopts the updates made to
the Kenton County Animal Control Ordinance. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2020-R-07 – Rumpke Contract Extension
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-07 which extends the Rumpke
contract for trash pickup from 07/01/2020 through 06/30/2022. Attorney Gatlin
read Resolution No. 2020-R-07 which extends the Rumpke contract another two
years at the new rate of $14.71 a month.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-07 which
accepts the contract extension with Rumpke for 07/01/2020 through 06/30/2022.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll
was called and motion passed, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Brushy Fork Project will be moving forward soon. He
stated Fischer is still working with the water district to widen Webster Road.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation of Independence residents to dealing
with the pandemic and staying healthy at home.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Deaton and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:14p.m.
   
                     ___________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
June 22, 2020
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 22, 2020             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 22,
2020 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Amy
Engelman and Carol Franzen. Council Members Deaton and Waite were absent. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and
Attorney Brandon Voelker.
Approval of the May 4, 2020 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
May 4, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on May 4, 2020. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2020-O-03 – Amended 2019-2020 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which amends the 2019-2020
Budget. Attorney Voelker gave Ordinance No. 2020-O-03 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-03 which
amends 2019-2020 Budget. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by
Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2020-O-04 – Adopting the 2020-2021 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2020-O-04 which adopts 2020-2021
budget which proposes keeping the tax rate the same for the 2020-2021 fiscal
year. He stated there were two budgets (A and B) presented at the June meeting
anticipating the best and worst case scenario with the COVID-19 pandemic. Mayor
Reinersman stated the numbers came out better than expected and budget C
proposes keeping the tax rate the same at .271 per $100 for real estate.
Attorney Voelker gave Ordinance No. 2020-O-04 a second reading.
Council Member Franzen questioned the changes made to the proposed budget C.
Finance Director Terri Hudson stated budget C includes the following changes
from budget A presented at June meeting: reduced revenue from property taxes
(with keeping tax rate the same), monies restored for police community outreach
supplies, public works tools, capital fund deposit for future restrooms by
Memorial Park basketball courts, park improvements and recreational programs.
Council Member Aseere stated he was confused why the first reading of the
budget was being skipped and he had reached out to the city attorney’s office
about it. Attorney Voelker stated the subject matter hasn’t changed and the
numbers were updated to reflect the current state and modified projections.
Mayor Reinersman stated budget C didn’t include a subsequent change as the
budgets presented at the first reading covered the best and worst case
scenario. Council Member Aseere stated he noticed the retirement contributions
were showing a decrease of over $100,000 on the new budget. Mrs. Hudson stated
the Kentucky Retirement Systems initially planned to raise the employer
contributions 12% each year but earlier this year they voted to freeze the
contributions for the 2020-2021 fiscal year which saves the city over $130,000.
Rita Hauke, 5346 Oakview Court, Independence, KY. Mrs. Hauke stated she knows
people that are struggling and asked Council not to raise taxes. Council Member
Franzen stated the city hasn’t raised property taxes in five years. She stated
the county tax bill may be higher but it includes school taxes, fire district
taxes, etc. and the city has no control over those.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-04 which
adopts the 2020-2021 Budget. Council Member Aseere so moved, with a second by
Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0
Ordinance No. 2020-O-05 – Employee Pay Classification for 2020-2021 – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2020-O-05 which adopts the employee
classification pay scale for the 2020-2021 fiscal year. Attorney Voelker gave
Ordinance No. 2020-O-05 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-05 which
adopts the employee pay classification scale. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0
Ordinance No. 2020-O-06 – Animal Control Ordinance Update – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman Ordinance No. 2020-O-06 which adopts the updates made to the
Kenton County Animal Control Ordinance. He stated the main change is updating
the name from animal control to animal services. Attorney Voelker gave
Ordinance No. 2020-O-06 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-06 which
adopts the updates made to the Kenton County Animal Control Ordinance. Council
Member Engelman so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried with all ayes, 4-0
Resolution No. 2020-R-08 – Municipal Road Aid
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-08 which adopts and approves
the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract between the city, the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet, Department of Rural and
Municipal Road Aid (MRA). He stated we previously passed the MRA Resolution
back in February but the state has recently made cuts and the city’s
apportionment of the Municipal Road Aid Funds for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2020 and is now $450,015.06. Attorney Voelker read Resolution No. 2020-
R-08.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-08 which
adopts and approves the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll
was called and motion passed, 4-0.
Resolution No. 2020-R-09 –Grant Application to Widen 536
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-09 which authorizes the Mayor
to apply for a grant to widen KY536 and the city would contribute up to $50,000
if approved. Attorney Voelker read Resolution No. 2020-R-09.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-09 which
authorizes the Mayor to apply for a grant to widen KY536. Council Member Aseere
so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and motion
passed, 4-0.
Attorney’s Report – Brandon Voelker
Mr. Voelker stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Day parade will start at 11:00 a.m.
from Summit View Academy through Simon Kenton but the festival has been
cancelled. He stated the fireworks show will go off at 10:00 p.m. Mayor
Reinersman stated the police currently has 37 officers, expanded equipment with
the help of drug seizure money including a crime scene investigation van,
pickup truck, golf carts, tasers and body cameras.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:03 p.m.
   
                     Council Meeting Minutes 06-22-2020
                     ___________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
July 13, 2020
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 13, 2020             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 13,
2020 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Bill Aseere, Tom Brinker, Lucas
Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and City Attorney Jack
Gatlin.
Approval of the June 22, 2020 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
June 22, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on June 22, 2020. Council Member Engelman so moved, with a
second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Police Promotion – Alesa Collinsworth
Mayor Reinersman presented a plaque to newly promoted Sergeant Alesa
Collinsworth.
Resolution No. 2020-R-10 –Stage II Development – Residences at Courtyard
Crossing
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-10 which authorizes the Stage
II Development for 3.36 acres located on the corner of McCullum Pike and KY17.
Scott Herald with Spire Development addressed council regarding the development
plan for the Residences at Courtyard Crossing. He stated the residents will be
ages 55 and up with 37 living spaces, three stories, library, community room,
lounge, laundry room and outdoor space. Mr. Herald stated a third party did a
market study and uncovered there is a huge need for senior living in this area.
Mr. Herald stated Planning and Development Services (PDS) did not provide a
favorable recommendation but believes they would have if it weren’t for the
wording in Section J of the zoning code regarding connectivity access. He
stated the items PDS mentioned in their report have been addressed in their
plans.
Andy Videkovich, Planning and Development Services (PDS) stated requirement for
the reasonable drive to the adjoining track is subjective and Mr. Herald has
done a good job of addressing the minor issues on the development plan.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2020-R-10.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-10 which
approves the stage II development plan for the Residences at Courtyard Crossing
with the conditions of PDS recommendations number 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6 on their
staff report. Council Member Deaton so moved, with a second by Council Member
Franzen. Roll was called and motion passed, 6-0.
esolution No. 2020-R-11 –Authorization to Apply for Coronavirus Relief Funds
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-11 which approves the filing
of a Coronavirus Relief Fund (CRF) application for reimbursement for
Coronavirus (COVID) related expenses. He stated the police salaries from March
on could qualify for reimbursement as well as other expenses. Mayor Reinersman
stated the money would be apportioned for the city for qualifying expenses.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2020-R-11.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-11 which
approves the application for CRF for COVID related expenses. Council Member
Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and
motion passed, 6-0.
Concrete Bid Award
Mayor Reinersman presented concrete bids for city street projects. He stated
SRM and Ernst are both $1150 a truck and Hometown is $1170 a truck. Public
Services Director Ken Hicks stated Ernst offers better drivers and customer
service and prefers to work with Ernst Concrete for the 2020 fiscal year.
Mayor called for a motion to award the concrete bid to Ernst Concrete SRM.
Council Member Deaton so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion
carries, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated the foreclosure process is starting back up in the courts and
there will likely be an increase in master commissioner sales in the next 30 to
60 days.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the old firehouse by the Independence Kenton County
Courthouse is being torn down and the Farmer’s Market will be temporarily moved
to Memorial Park. Mr. Moriconi stated the Kenton Conservancy will be having an
open house and public hearing this week to discuss the passive park area at the
back of Canberra Ridge. He stated there are four acres at the end of Berlander
that may be annexed so the new houses in the development aren’t half in the
city and half in the county and will likely be discussed in next few months.
There was some discussion regarding the Independence Courthouse being closed
and that Kenton County residents have to go to the Covington location to
register vehicles and renew tags and the lines are long.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the coronavirus is still here and asks everyone to mask
up.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:21 p.m.
                     Council Meeting Minutes 07-13-2020
 
                     ___________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
August 2020 - No Meeting
September 14, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 14, 2020          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
14, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated foreclosures are catching up after a six month backlog due to
COVID.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Northern Kentucky Water District is replacing water
lines on the east side of town so Persimmon, Walnut, etc. will be repaved in
the spring of 2021 after the water lines are replaced. He stated construction
of new apartments will be beginning soon on the back part of Apartment House
Drive which the city vacated back a few years ago.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated in person early voting will be available between
October 13th through November 2nd at the Senior Center as well as the County
Government Center in Covington. He stated Halloween will be up to residents to
participate and urged everyone to respect each other’s choices. Mayor
Reinersman added if there is a COVID spike or neighboring cities start
cancelling, it will be reconsidered to continue with trick or treating in the
city. He stated the traditional Christmas Walk will likely not happen this year
and are looking for creative ideas to celebrate the holidays in addition to the
parade.  
Mayor Reinersman stated the police department will have two new officers this
month. He stated Rob Auton will be a School Resource Office at Simon Kenton
High School and AJ Kenner will be an officer and comes from the Kenton County
Sheriff’s department.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton (arrived at 7:17 p.m.) and
Greg Waite (arrived at 7:09 p.m.). Council Member Amy Engelman was absent. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and
Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the July 13, 2020 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
July 13, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on July 13, 2020. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Aseere. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2020 Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which adopts the 2020 tax
rates of $.271 per $100 for real property and $.642 per $100 for personal
property. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – IT Supply Solutions LLC Occupational Tax Credit – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which provides a .5% credit
of its occupational license fee for IT Supply Solutions LLC for the 15 newly
created full time jobs. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Senior Center Roof Bid Award
Mayor Reinersman stated the roof replacement was advertised for bid and two
bids were received for removal of shingle roof and replace with a red metal
roof. Kerkan Roofing’s bid is $91,725 and Shield Roofing’s bid is $92,847.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to accept the bid from Kerkan Roofing for
$91,725. Council Member Brinker made a second. Roll was called and motion
carried, 5-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Aseere and
seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:46 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
October 5, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 5, 2020          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met virtually on Monday,
October 5, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor
Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton and Greg Waite
(arrived at 7:14 p.m.). Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi,
City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the September 14, 2020 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
September 14, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on September 14, 2020. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Deaton. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
(Council Member Waite arrived). 
Ordinance No. 2020-O-07 – Adopting 2020 Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2020-O-07 which adopts the 2020 tax
rates of $.271 per $100 for real property and $.634 per $100 for personal
property. He stated the personal property rate of $.642 was higher than the
comp rate so the adopted rate will need to be lowered to $.634 which will
generate approximately $10,000 less in taxes collected for personal property.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2020-O-07 a second reading.
Council Member Aseere made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-07. Council
Member Engelman made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2020-O-08 – IT Supply Solutions LLC Occupational Tax Credit – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2020-O-08 which provides a .5% credit
of its occupational license fee for IT Supply Solutions LLC for the 15 newly
created full time jobs. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2020-O-08 a second
reading.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-08.
Council Member Aseere made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Webster Road Lane Width Change – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which would amend Ordinance
No. 2004-O-15 and 2011-O-15 which changes the width requirement of Webster Road
to be seventeen (17) feet instead of twenty-two (22) feet. He stated before the
last fifty (50) lots can be permitted to build, the Northern Kentucky Water
District (NKWD) will need to install an additional water line and should be
completed before December 31, 2021. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance
a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Berling/Glenhurst Annexation – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the proposed ordinance which annexes 4.191 acres
which is a continuation of the Glenhurst subdivision. Attorney Gatlin gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Sound the Alarm 5K went well on October 3rd and Hickory
Grove plans to make it an annual event each October.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated there were over 50 attendees for the memorial at the
Senior Center for the late Director Lisa Rymarquis. He stated Halloween is
coming up and residents can participate if they should choose but requested to
do it safely with masks, social distancing, etc. Mayor Reinersman stated the
Christmas Parade will go on but the traditional Christmas Walk will
unfortunately not happen in 2020.
There was some discussion about voting locations, mail in ballot boxes as well
as the Senior Center being used for early voting beginning on October 13th.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:04 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
November 9, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of November 9, 2020          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met virtually on Monday,
November 9, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding.
Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton and Greg Waite.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and
Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the October 5, 2020 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
October 5, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on October 5, 2020. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2020-O-09 – Webster Road Lane Width Change – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2020-O-09 which amends Ordinance No.
2004-O-15 and 2011-O-15 including changes to the width requirement of Webster
Road from twenty-two (22) feet to seventeen (17) feet. He stated before the
last fifty (50) lots can be permitted to build, the Northern Kentucky Water
District (NKWD) will need to install an additional water line and should be
completed before December 31, 2021. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2020-O-
09 a second reading.
Council Member Brinker made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-09.
Council Member Franzen made a second. Roll was called Council Members Brinker,
Franzen, Waite and Engelman were in favor. Council Member Aseere and Deaton
were opposed. Motion carried 4-2.
Ordinance No. 2020-O-10 – Berling/Glenhurst Annexation – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2020-O-10 which annexes 4.191 acres
into the city. He stated the property is a continuation of the Glenhurst
subdivision. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2020-O-10 a second reading.
Council Member Engelman made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2020-O-10.
Council Member Aseere made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2020-R-12 – Text Amendment for Pavement Alternative
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-12 which approves the City
Administrator to apply for a text amendment to allow for alternative pavement
surfacing for off-street parking areas. He stated this adds gravel options for
parking lots for passive recreation areas such as the new Brushy Fork Park area
coming to Canberra in the future.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-12. Council
Member Brinker made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2020-R-13 – Spegal Development
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-13 which is an agreement for
the city to move forward with the process of to annexing 100 acres located at
861 E. Mt Zion Road. He stated the term sheet with Spegal Development includes
several steps such as developing the 100 acre site with four industrial
buildings. Mayor Reinersman stated this new development will be huge for the
city bringing in new businesses, creating new jobs and collecting additional
real and tangible taxes.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-13. Council
Member Engelman made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2020-EO-08 – Re-appointment for TBNK
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2020-EO-08 which re-appoints Tom
Brinker to the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky for the term of
January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2022.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated the Mayor has worked really hard on the Spegal Development so
far and the city is lucky to have him as Mayor during this project.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Spegal project has been a great opportunity for the
city and commends Mayor Reinersman for his countless hours he’s spent already
getting the project started.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated there has been some data collection with the help of
Council Member Engelman regarding other local cities’ small business grant
programs. He stated with council and staff’s help, he would like to see a list
of criteria, application and program outline by the December meeting to keep
things moving with the possibility of implementing this grant.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Aseere to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:15 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
December 7, 2020
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 7, 2020          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met virtually on Monday,
December 7, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding.
Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton and Greg Waite.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard,
Police Chief Tony Lucas and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the November 9, 2020 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections, they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
November 9, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on November 9, 2020. Council Member Deaton so moved, with
a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Parking Regulations – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which amends Section 72 of the
Independence Code of Ordinances related to motor vehicle parking regulations.
Chief Lucas stated there was a complete review of the parking regulations and
it will make it easier for local law enforcement to police. Attorney Gatlin
gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2020-R-14 – TBNK Transfer
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2020-R-14 which approves the transfer
of control of Cincinnati Bell Inc. and Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC
to Red Fiber Parent LLC and RF Merger Sub Inc.
Council Member Engelman made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2020-R-14.
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2020-EO-09 – Re-appointment to OKI Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2020-EO-09 which re-appoints
Mayor Christopher J. Reinersman to the OKI Board of Directors.
Executive Order No. 2020-EO-11 – Re-appointment to PDS Council
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2020-EO-11 which re-appoints
Mayor Christopher J. Reinersman as the primary representative and Council
Member Carol Franzen as the alternate representative to the Planning and
Development Services (PDS) for 2021.
Municipal Order No. 2020-MO-01 – Small Business Grant Program
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No 2020-MO-01 which approves the
appropriation of $400,000 of its (CARES) Act allocation to help businesses
affected by the Governor’s Executive Orders. He stated there will be two tiers
and there is a maximum of $5,000 for each business for each tier. Mayor
Reinersman stated tier one is for PPE (personal protective equipment) expenses
and tier two is for rent, mortgage and utilities. He stated letters will be
mailed to businesses with guidelines and information about how to apply.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Municipal Order No 2020-MO-01.
Council Member Engelman made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 5-0.
Council Member Aseere abstained.
Municipal Order No. 2020-MO-02 – Fire District Grant
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No 2020-MO-02 which approves a grant
of $60,093.71 of its (CARES) Act to the Independence Fire District
Council Member Aseere made a motion to approve Municipal Order No 2020-MO-02.
Council Member Franzen made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Surplus Property
Mayor Reinersman stated there were several items the city declares surplus
property which includes several vehicles which will be sold on www.govdeals.com
and radio equipment which will be donated to the Kenton County Detention
Center, in accordance with KRS 45A.365.
Council Member Engelman made a motion to approve the lists of surplus property.
Council Member Franzen made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the Senior Center roof project is underway and there have
been several delays due to weather.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Christmas Parade went well and the Santa Fun Run
set a record with over 200 participants. He thanked the Independence Police
Department for help with directing traffic around the events as well as the IBC
with their assistance with the weekend events. Mayor Reinersman also thanked
Council Member Aseere for his 8 years of service on Council.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Aseere and
seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:32 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
December 21, 2020
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 21, 2020          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met virtually on Monday,
December 21, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding.
Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen and Greg Waite. Also present
was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack
Gatlin and Independence Fire Chief Scott Breeze. Council Member Deaton was not
present.
Municipal Order No. 2020-MO-03 – Fire District Grant
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2020-MO-03 which approves the
appropriation of $642,008.00 of the CARES Act monies to the Independence Fire
District. He stated the city is only applying for this additional money to pass
along to the Fire District since they were not eligible to apply themselves.
Mayor Reinersman stated the city will wait until the CARES Act funds are
received before dispersing to the Fire District.
Fire Chief Breeze stated FEMA isn’t approving their COVID expenses and it’s
been hard to order PPE (personal protective equipment). He stated he’s
estimating the Independence Fire District will see over 150 COVID patients by
the end of 2020.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2020-MO-03.
Council Member Aseere seconded. Roll was called and motion carried 5-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Aseere to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:22 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
2021 Minutes
January 4, 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 4, 2021          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met virtually on Monday,
January 4, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor
Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg
Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the December 7, 2020 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections, they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
December 7, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on December 7, 2020. Council Member Engelman so moved,
with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Approval of the December 21, 2020 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections, they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
December 21, 2020.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on December 21, 2020. Council Member Franzen so moved,
with a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Glenhurst Annexation – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which is a map amendment to
4.12 acres in the Glenhurst subdivision. He stated the amendment changes the
area from A-1 (agricultural zone) to R-1D (residential zone) and the developer
can continue to complete the subdivision. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading and stated it is a consensual annexation and has been
recommended by the Kenton County Planning and Zoning Commission (KCPC).
Ordinance No. 2021-O-01 – Parking Regulations – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-01 which amends Section 72 of
the Independence Code of Ordinances related to motor vehicle parking
regulations. Chief Lucas stated there was a complete review of the parking
regulations and it will make it easier for local law enforcement to police.
Attorney Gatlin read Ordinance No. 2021-O-01.
Council Member Deaton made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-01. Council
Member Franzen made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-01 – Appointment to the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics
Authority
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-01 which accepts the re-
appoints of Marcus Carey, Robert F. Greene, Darryl Cummin, Robert Sanders, Tom
Quirk and Bryce C. Rhoades and appoints Jack Westwood as members of the
Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority Enforcement Committee (NKREA). He
stated the appointments are for a two-year term from February 1, 2021 through
January 31, 2023. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-01.
Council Member Engelman made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-01.
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-02 – Text Amendment for IP Zone
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-02 which proposes a text
amendment to the IP (industrial park) zone. He stated the amendment increases
the maximum height of the buildings in the IP zone to 50 feet and allows
permitted uses including banks, offices, post offices, coffee shops, etc.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-02 and stated with passing this
resolution, it will go to the Kenton County Planning Commission for approval.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-02. Council
Member Brinker made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-03 – Infrastructure
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-03 which urges the Kentucky
General Assembly to enact legislation to increase transportation funding and
modernize the Kentucky’s road funding formula to provide a more equitable
allocation of revenue to cities to ensure the safety, maintenance and
construction of vital city streets and bridges. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution
No. 2021-R-03.
Council Member Engelman made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-03.
Council Member Franzen made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he is available for council members whenever they have
questions and urged them to reach out to him. He also welcomed new Council
Member Vogelpohl.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the audio/visual equipment will be updated in the Council
Chambers in the near future and will help with sharing documents during
meetings. He stated resident Brad Jones had recently reached out to him
regarding a large box truck parked in his neighbor’s driveway and would like
council to review.
Brad Jones, 1244 Cynthiana Ct, Independence, KY – Mr. Jones stated he has a
neighbor that is parking a work box truck in his driveway. He stated these
trucks are not addressed specifically in the zoning ordinance. Mr. Jones
suggested that box trucks should be treated as RVs, trailers, etc. Attorney
Gatlin read the existing zoning ordinances that discuss trucks parked in
residential areas including weight and length limits. Mr. Jones said the owner
of the box truck works each day from approximately 7:00 a.m. and returns around
12:00 p.m. Council discussed the issue and there was concern some were leary to
interfere with someone’s livelihood.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated there has been a lot of comments recently on the city’s
Facebook page when the city shares COVID facts and information from creditable
sources.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Deaton and
seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:05 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
January 11, 2021
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 11, 2021          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met virtually on Monday,
January 11, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding.
Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Bill
Aseere, Tom Brinker, Lucas Deaton, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen and Greg Waite.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard,
Attorney Jack Gatlin and Independence Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Resolution No. 2021-R-04 – Spegal Development Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-04 which authorizes the
execution of a development agreement between the City of Independence and Lloyd
and Judith Spegal. The Mayor stated VTRE Development (Van Trust) has a purchase
contract to acquire 100-acre property and develop an industrial and business
park on the property located at 861 East Mt Zion Rd. Mayor Reinersman stated
the property is currently in unincorporated Kenton County and will soon be
annexed into the city. He stated the developer Van Trust is proposing to put in
1.2 million square feet of industrial space and the city will be using
industrial revenue bonds.
Mayor Reinersman stated a new road will be installed and will serve as a
dedicated street and will include a round-about to help eliminate truck
stacking. Ryan Lidke and Phil Rasey with Van Trust stated they were involved
with the new Kroger warehouse off 536 and several projects by CVG airport.
Council Member Vogelpohl stated his concern for neighboring subdivisions if a
tenant of this new development wanted to store chemicals. Mr. Parsons stated
the development agreement lays out that it will be re-zoned to an IP
(Industrial Park) Zone so it will be regulated for use within that zone and
will be light industrial.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-04 which authorizes the execution of
a development agreement between the city and VTRE Development. He stated this
also approves and authorizes the application for the map amendment and to
execute the annexation agreement between the city and the property owners.
Attorney Gatlin stated Council will also need to bless the zone change, text
amendment and final approval for the annexation.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-04. Council
Member Brinker seconded. Roll was called and motion carried 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-05 – Inducement – Industrial Revenue Bonds
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-05 which authorizes the
execution of a memorandum of agreement between the city and VTRE Development
relating to the acquisition, construction, equipping and installation of an
industrial and busines park development located in the city and agreeing to
undertake the issuance of industrial building revenue bonds at the appropriate
time.
Jim Parsons, Attorney with Keating Muething & Klekamp PLL, stated the
industrial revenue bond resolution that is being discussed and passed at this
meeting is just stating the intent to undertake the issuance of industrial
building revenue bonds at the appropriate time. He stated several cities in
Northern Kentucky have utilized industrial revenue bonds to secure projects and
the bonds do not become the debt to the city. Mr. Parsons stated they are
issued by a public entity but are the responsibility of the developer. He
stated when these bonds are used, the property becomes tax exempt but the
developer agrees to a settlement amount in lieu of property taxes. Mr. Parsons
stated the benefits to the developer are the city takes care of the map
amendment to annex property into the city, there is also a pilot tax will be
split between the county and city.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-05 and reiterated that none of the
bonds will be general obligations of the city.
Council Member Franzen e made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-04.
Council Member Brinker seconded. Roll was called and motion carried 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Intent to Annex – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented proposed ordinance which authorizes application of
annexation of the 100 acres located at 861 E Mt Zion Road, Independence, KY.
Attorney Gatlin stated per KRS 100.209, the application and annexation and map
amendment can be filed together. He stated the current property owner have
already consented to the annexation. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the city is now the second highest city in Northern
Kentucky with COVID cases. He encouraged everyone to stay safe by wearing masks
and washing hands often. Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation to council
for their support and help with this development project.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:00 p.m.
   
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
February 1, 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 1, 2021          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met virtually on Monday,
February 1, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding.
Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg
Waite. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the January 4, 2021 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections, they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
January 4, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on January 4, 2021. Council Member Franzen so moved, with
a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Approval of the January 11, 2021 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections, they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
January 11, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
special meeting held on January 11, 2021. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Vogelpohl. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-02 – Glenhurst Annexation – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-02 which is a map amendment to
4.12 acres in the Glenhurst subdivision. He stated the amendment changes the
area from A-1 (agricultural zone) to R-1D (residential zone) and the developer
can continue to complete the subdivision. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No.
2021-O-02 a second reading and stated it is a consensual annexation and has
been recommended by the Kenton County Planning and Zoning Commission (KCPC).
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-02. Council
Member Engelman made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment for Alternative Surfacing – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which is a text amendment that
would allow alternative surfacing for off-street parking for passive recreation
areas.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated here was
a public hearing on January 7, 2021 where Kenton County Planning Commission
(KCPC) voted for a favorable recommendation.
Resolution No. 2021-R-06 – Meadow Glen Stage II
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-06 which conditionally
authorizes and approves the Stage II Development Plan for the 12.03 acre area
located along the southwest side of Webster Road.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-06 and stated the PDS Staff
recommendation is favorable with the conditions of planting evergreen trees
within the Webster greenbelt area within 6 months of commencement of the
grading of the Wolsing property as well as all additional conditions considered
on the January 22, 2021 Staff report.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-06. Council
Member Brinker made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the small business grant program has approved 17 businesses
so far and there are several more still under review.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated he is hopeful about having an in-person council meeting
in March. He stated the Spegal Development is moving forward and wants to be
transparent to the public about the project. Mayor Reinersman stated the next
public hearing will be at the Kenton County Planning Commission on March 4,
2021 and there will likely be a special meeting on March 8, 2021 for the first
reading of the map amendment.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 7:29 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
March 1, 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 1, 2021          City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 1,
2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol
Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the February 1, 2021 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
February 1, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on February 1, 2021. Council Member Engelman so moved,
with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-03 – Text Amendment for Alternative Surfacing – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-03 which is a text amendment
that would allow alternative surfacing for off-street parking for passive
recreation areas. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-03 a second
reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-03.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment for IP Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which is a text amendment that
increases the maximum height of buildings in the Industrial Park (IP) zone from
40 feet to 50 feet, adds additional office and accessory uses and development
controls for office uses.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated it was
approved by the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) and was recommended by
Planning and Development Services (PDS) staff.
Resolution No. 2021-R-07 – Community Development Block Grant
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-07 which is authorizes the
Mayor to sign and file an application for the Community Development Block – CV
Grant for up to $200,000. Mr. Moriconi stated the grant program will be
administered by the Northern Kentucky Area Development District (NKADD) and
will provide relief for residents whom are unable to pay for utilities due to
circumstances surrounding COVID. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-07.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-07. Council
Member Deaton made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-08 – Amendment to Spegal Development Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-08 which authorizes the Mayor
to sign the amendment to the agreement in regards to the acquisition,
construction, and installation of an industrial and business park development
on the property located on East Mt Zion Road. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution
No. 2021-R-08.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-08.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-
0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-09 – Text Amendment for Holland Development
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-09 which is a text amendment
for the PUD (Planned Unit Development) zone to add breweries, distilleries and
wineries as an allowable use. He stated the proposed development in the PUD
zone will be called the Downs of Nicholson and will be on the corner of
Kentucky Highway 17 and Taylor Mill Road. Mayor Reinersman stated it will have
85 residential patio homes which will have 2-3 bedrooms, a clubhouse and pool.
He stated the development will also have a fast-food restaurant, a sit down
restaurant similar to Greyhound Tavern, a fuel center with a mini grocery store
as well as a micro-brewery and outdoor music venue. Mayor Reinersman stated the
Downs of Nicholson will be a cool entertainment place to visit and hang out.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-09 and stated the sponsored text
amendment will go onto the Kenton County Planning Commission for public
hearing.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-09.
Council Member Engelman made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R10 – Map Amendment for Holland Development
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-10 which is a map amendment
for the 29.41 acres at the northwest intersection of Kentucky Highway 17 and
Taylor Mill Road. He stated the amendment would change the property from a R-1B
(single family residential zone at a maximum density of two dwelling units per
net acre) to R-2 (PUD) (a two and multi-family residential zone at a maximum
density of ten dwelling units per net acre, with a planned unit development
overlay zone).
Mr. Moriconi stated he will complete the applications for the text and map
amendments and they should be heard at the public hearing in the coming months.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-10 and stated these should come back
to council for a first reading in the next few months.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-10.
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Award Bid – 2021 Resurfacing Program
Mayor Reinersman presented the bid for the 2021 Resurfacing Program for
Plantation Heights. He stated the engineer’s estimate was $715,950 and Riegler
Blacktop came in at $554,675, Paul Michels & Sons’ bid was $609,025 and Eaton
Asphalt’s bid was $652,885. Public Services Director, Ken Hicks, stated the
project should be able to start in the next couple of months and is within the
2020-2021 budget.
Council Member Waite made a motion to accept the bid from Riegler Blacktop for
$554,675. Council Member Engelman made a second. Roll was called and motion
carried, 6-0.
Surplus Property - Backhoe
Mayor Reinersman presented a backhoe that public services no longer use and
would like to surplus. He stated the piece of equipment will be traded locally
or sold on govdeals.com.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to declare the backhoe surplus property.
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated he was on the committee to help decide what can be done
with the old Fox Run golf course in addition to the walking trails. He stated
there are currently 7 miles of paved trails and they will eventually connect
with Lincoln Ridge Park.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman presented the annual audit to council for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 2020. He stated it was an unqualified, clean audit with no
areas of concern.
Mayor Reinersman stated the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) will have
a public hearing on March 4, 2021 in regards to the Spegal Development. He
urged residents to attend and stated it was their opportunity to be heard
regarding the project. Mayor Reinersman stated council will not be able to
discuss new evidence that was not discussed at the KCPC hearing. He stated the
city has been interested in the development for years and new businesses will
help alleviate some pressure to tax payers. Mayor Reinersman stated there is a
white paper posted on the city’s website which provides lots of information on
the project.
Mayor Reinersman stated the Police Department will be adding a K-9 officer to
the force. Chief Lucas stated the PD will be fundraising for the $75,000 which
covers the start-up costs for the K-9 including the special vehicle which will
have a special heating and cooling system to keep the dog comfortable while on
duty. He stated there are 5 officers interested in being the K-9 handler and
they are going through a process to determine the best fit.
Mayor Reinersman stated he hopes to present an amended budget at the next
meeting. He stated the payroll taxes were right on target and with the
significant stimulus funding, several projects that were previously cut, will
be added back into the budget.
There was some discussion about the fourth of July events for 2021 and Mayor
Reinersman stated the parade and fireworks will likely happen along with a
musical festival with food and drinks. Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence
Easter Bunny Trail event will be on March 27 in Summit View’s parking lot and
registration is available on the city’s Facebook page.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:41 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
March 15, 2021
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 15, 2021                     City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 15,
2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol
Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney Brandon
Volker.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-04 – Text Amendment for IP Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-04 which is a text amendment
that increases the maximum height of buildings in the Industrial Park (IP) zone
from 40 feet to 50 feet as well as adds additional office and accessory uses
and development controls for office uses. Attorney Volker gave Ordinance No.
2021-O-04 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-04.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amended 2020-2021 Budget – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the 2020-2021
budget. He stated the items changing are highlighted in yellow. Attorney Volker
gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Deaton questioned the $75,000 line item expense for the K-
9 program. Mayor Reinersman stated the Police Department will be fundraising
the $75,000 for the K-9 so there is a line for revenue as well as a line for
the expenses.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment for Spegal Development – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which is a map amendment for
the Spegal development on Mt Zion Road. He stated the Kenton County Planning
Commission (KCPC) public hearing was on March 4, 2021 and no one signed in to
speak. Mayor Reinersman stated the KCPC board voted unanimously in favor of the
amendment. Attorney Volker gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the KCPC public hearing for the Holland Development
project is scheduled for April 1, 2021 for anyone interested in speaking about
the project. Mr. Moriconi stated the map amendment as well as the text
amendment are both on the agenda for the public hearing.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Deaton to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:19 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
April 5, 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of April 5, 2021                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 5,
2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol
Franzen, Lucas Deaton, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Police Captain Wood.
Approval of the March 1, 2021 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
March 1, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on March 1, 2021. Council Member Waite so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Approval of the March 15, 2021 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
March 15, 2021. Council Member Waite mentioned a change made to the second
paragraph for “$75,00” to “$75,000”.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes with the
proposed change for the special meeting held on March 15, 2021. Council Member
Deaton so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with
all ayes, 6-0.
Mayor Reinersman mentioned the Simon Kenton Principal, Craig Reinhart, was
going to come speak to council about the concerns about overcrowding of schools
with the upcoming Holland development of new patio homes. He stated Kenton
County schools are not currently overcrowded and the patio homes that are
proposed to be built in the Downs of Nicholson will not add many students to
the local schools.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-05 – Amended 2020-2021 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-05 which amends the 2020-2021
budget. He stated the items changing are highlighted in yellow. Attorney Gatlin
gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-05 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-05.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Deaton. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-06 – for Map Amendment for Spegal Development – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-06 which is a map amendment for
the Spegal development on Mt Zion Road. He stated the Kenton County Planning
Commission (KCPC) board voted unanimously in favor of the amendment and no one
signed into speak.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-06 a second reading and stated the
KCPC public hearing was on March 4, 2021 was given a favorable recommendation
by the KCPC. There was discussion regarding the timeline and it was stated the
project will likely start in the spring of 2022 and the building constructed
along with the expansion of KY536 in 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-06.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-07 – Intent to Annex – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-07 which is a consensual
annexation with the property owners of the 100 acres located at 861 E Mt Zion
Road, Independence, KY. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-07 a second
reading and he stated this annexation goes in conjunction with the map
amendment.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-07.
Council Member Deaton so moved, with a second by Council Member Vogelpohl.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-11 – Lawn Services Contract Extension
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-11 which renews the mowing and
general maintenance contract with Malco and authorizes a two-year extension for
July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2023. Mr. Moriconi stated this is the final
extension of the current contract and we will need to bid out the services in
2023.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-11. Council
Member Brinker made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-12 – Hazardous Mitigation
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-12 which authorizes the Mayor
to sign the memorandum of agreement for the regional hazardous mitigation plan
through FEMA. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-12.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-12.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-
0.
Handicapped Parking Request
Mayor Reinersman stated Council Member Brinker reached out to Chief Lucas to
request a handicapped parking sign on the street in front of his house. Council
Member Franzen stated the Brinker family lives on the cul-de-sac and there are
many cars parked on the street and Mr. Brinker isn’t able to easily get to his
vehicle when he has to park it up the street. Attorney Gatlin suggested the
Mayor execute an executive order to allow the installation of the handicapped
sign in front of Mr. Brinker’s residence. 
Mayor Reinersman stated he received a letter of resignation from Council Member
Deaton. He stated he will be moving out of the city and no longer eligible to
serve on city council. Mayor Reinersman stated there is no specific method of a
replacement but it has to be completed within 30 days or the governor will
nominate a replacement.
Council Member Franzen stated her opinion is to ask the next candidate on the
election ballot, which was Dave Shafer. There was some discussion by Council
noting Dave’s involvement in the community by many years of volunteering in the
city. Dave Schaefer stated he would be honored to serve the City of
Independence.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to fill the vacant council seat with Dave
Shafer effective April 19, 2021, Council Member Engelman made a second. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous, motion passed 5-0 (Council Member
Deaton did not vote).
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated a property that the city initiated a house in foreclosure by
the Public Works buildings on is for sale by the master commissioner on May 11,
2021.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated a resident has requested the District 6 Transportation
Department do street light study at the intersection of KY536 and Highway 17
(by Deaton’s Greenhouse). He stated the main concern at that intersection is
traffic backup issues. Captain Wood stated there is not a lot of accidents at
the intersection and the study will take several months. Mr. Moriconi stated
the public work department are working on several road projects including
Plantation Heights and will start working on additional streets in July. He
stated there are many sidewalk grind down projects that will be done this
summer. Mr. Moriconi stated the updated 5-year street survey is complete and
will be shared in May.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the Facebook post about the city being closed on spring
holiday upset several people. He stated the city’s personnel policy has the
Friday before Easter listed as a spring holiday and it’s been that way for many
years. Mayor Reinersman stated it is simply a holiday for city employees,
however they choose to celebrate, whether it’s for Good Friday, Jewish Passover
or whatever employees would like to observe. He stated it was a great turnout
for the first Easter Bunny Trail event and huge thanks to Hickory Grove Baptist
Church.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:12 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
May 3, 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 3, 2021               City of Independence, Ky.Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 3,
2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Police Chief Anthony Lucas.
Approval of the April 5, 2021 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
April 5, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the
regular meeting held on April 5, 2021. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a
second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with a 5-0 vote; Council
Member Shafer abstained.
Craig Reinhart, Simon Kenton Principal – Mr. Reinhart addressed council in
regards to students at Simon Kenton and recent concerns about overcrowding with
the proposed development at the Downs of Nicholson. He stated with the programs
at Northern Kentucky University, Thomas More College, Ignite Institute, Gateway
College, ROTC, etc., there will be an average of 1,571 students in the Simon
Kenton school building. He stated the capacity of the school is approximately
1,800 students and there are currently about 100 students that open enroll to
attend Simon Kenton.
Mayor Reinersman’s Budget Message
Mayor Reinersman stated the 100+ acre industrial development at the Spegal Farm
property will bring nearly 1.2 million square feet of space, hundreds of jobs
and projected revenue increases approaching 10% of the current city budget. He
stated the proposed development, the Downs of Nicholson, would also add jobs
and non- residential tax revenue. Mayor Reinersman stated the budget being
presented represents a nearly 4% reduction from the current property tax rate
and there is also a proposed 10% COVID discount. He stated the salaries of
public services and the police department are being reviewed and may be
adjusted so they are more in line with competitive standards Mayor Reinersman
stated a merit-based pay increase plan will also be implemented this year.
Mayor Reinersman stated the funding for the street program will again be above
one million dollars for road replacement and resurfacing. He stated the new
budget proposes new playground equipment in Shadler Park, a second restroom and
shelter between the amphitheater and basketball courts at Memorial Park as well
as the addition of pickleball courts.
Tates Creek Development Project
Johan Graham, Workforce Housing Multi-Family Developer with Tates Creek
Development, LLC – Mr. Graham presented a proposed development for an
affordable housing project on the 16 acres at 2172 Harris Pike which is
currently zoned R-1C. He stated the development would offer 72 affordable
housing options including 1–3- bedroom apartments for those making between
$25,000 and $60,000 per year. Mr. Graham stated the project would include 3
apartment buildings, a clubhouse and a pool. He stated the entrance and buffer
zone would be off Centennial and is hoping to present the project at the June
public hearing before the Kenton County Planning Commission.
Proposed Ordinance - Text Amendment for Holland Development - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which is a text amendment by
adding a definition for brewery, distillery, winery as well as adding brewery,
distillery and winery as permitted uses within a PUD (Planned Unit Development)
zone. He stated the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) had a public
hearing on April 1, 2021 and a favorable recommendation was given by PDS staff.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance - Map Amendment for Holland Development - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which is a map amendment for
the 29.41 acres located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Taylor
Mill Rd (KY 16) and Madison Pike (KY 17) to change the zone from a R-1B (single
family residential zone) to a R-2 (PUD) (a multi-family residential zone with a
planned unit development overlay). He stated the Kenton County Planning
Commission (KCPC) had a public hearing on April 1, 2021 in which it was given a
favorable recommendation for approval by PDS staff. Attorney Gatlin gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexation for Holland Development - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which annexes the one acre
parcel on the east side of KY 17 and north side of KY 16 along with the 29.41
acres which was previously annexed for the Holland Development. He stated the
Holland Group approached the current property owners and they agreed to sell
the parcel. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting the 2021-2022 Budget - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts the annual budget
for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2021 and ending June 30, 2022. Attorney
Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Employee Pay Classifications - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts the personnel and
pay classification plan for the 2021-2022 fiscal year. Mr. Moriconi stated
salary surveys are reviewed each year to make sure the city is staying
competitive with the private and public sectors and minimums and maximums are
adjusted accordingly. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Interlocal Agreement for One Stop Shop- 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts an amended
interlocal agreement between the Kenton County Fiscal Court and several
Northern Kentucky cities, including Independence, for code enforcement. He
stated the amendment will allocate each city to pay 100% of the costs for
services performed by Planning and Development Services (PDS). Mayor Reinersman
stated this amendment will add a $50,000 increase to Independence directly.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2021-R-13 – MRA Cooperative Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-13 which adopts and approves
the execution of a Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract between the city, the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet and the Department of Rural
and Municipal Road Aid (MRA). He stated the city’s apportionment of the
Municipal Road Aid Funds for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2021 is
$502,824.23. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-13.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-13.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-14 – Body Armor GOLD Grant
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-14 which authorizes the Mayor
to enter into an agreement with the Governor’s office for Local Development
(GOLD) for the Kentucky Body Armor Program. Chief Lucas stated this resolution
allows the Mayor to approve the application for new equipment from Homeland
Security for the police department such as aging rifles. Attorney Gatlin read
Resolution No. 2021-R-14.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-14.
Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney’s Report – Jack Gatlin
Mr. Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator Report – Chris Moriconi
Mr. Moriconi stated the five-year street survey is complete and distributed to
council. He stated it will be added to the city’s website for the public as
well. Mr. Moriconi stated the report grades each of the city’s streets and
helps dictate which streets will be repaired and/or replaced. Chief Lucas
stated the green street signs are city streets and blue street signs should be
Kenton county streets.
Mayor’s Report – Christopher J. Reinersman
Mayor Reinersman stated the American Legion will move forward with the Memorial
Day parade on the morning of Memorial Day parade on Madison Pike. The
Independence Day festival will be scaled down and will start the day with the
cars and pipes show in the Kroger parking lot at 10:00 a.m., the parade starts
at 3:00 p.m., the festival kicks off at 4:00 p.m. at Memorial Park with two
bands – 24/7 and GenX and circus performances throughout the evening. Mayor
Reinersman stated Hand and Hand Realty will be sponsoring the Parties in the
Park again this summer and they will be the second Thursday of the month in
June, July and August. He added there will be a ribbon cutting on May 8, 2021
at Memorial Park for new exercise equipment at Memorial Park.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:32 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
June 14, 2021
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 14, 2021                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 14,
2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Deputy Clerk Chelsea Cox
and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the May 3, 2021 Regular Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
May 3, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular
meeting held on May 3, 2021. Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by
Council Member Shafer. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-08 - Text Amendment for Holland Development – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-08 which is a text amendment by
adding a definition for brewery, distillery, winery as well as adding brewery,
distillery and winery as permitted uses within a PUD (Planned Unit Development)
zone. He stated the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) had a public
hearing on April 1, 2021 and a favorable recommendation was given by PDS staff.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-08 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-08.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Vogelpohl.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-09 - Map Amendment for Holland Development – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-09 which is a map amendment for
the 29.41 acres located at the northeast corner of the intersection of Taylor
Mill Rd (KY 16) and Madison Pike (KY 17) to change the zone from a R-1B (single
family residential zone) to a R-2 (PUD) (a multi-family residential zone with a
planned unit development overlay). He stated the Kenton County Planning
Commission (KCPC) had a public hearing on April 1, 2021 in which it was given a
favorable recommendation for approval by PDS staff. Attorney Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2021-O-09 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-09.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-10 – Annexation for Holland Development – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-10 which annexes the one-acre
parcel on the east side of KY 17 and north side of KY 16 along with the 29.41
acres which was previously annexed for the Holland Development. Attorney Gatlin
gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-10 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-10.
Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-11– Adopting the 2021-2022 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-11 which adopts the annual
budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2021 and ending June 30, 2022. He
stated there were a couple minor changes to the budget since the first reading
which include increases to the Parks and Recreation Department and the Police
Department. Mayor Reinersman stated pickleball courts and restrooms will be
added to Memorial Park and the police will add new safety equipment which
include new red dot equipment and holsters for the new 9mm guns. Attorney
Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-11 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-11.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-12 – Employee Pay Classifications – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-12 which adopts the personnel
and pay classification plan for the 2021-2022 fiscal year. He stated salary
surveys are reviewed each year to make sure the city is staying competitive
with the private and public sectors. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-
12 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-12.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-13 – Interlocal Agreement for One Stop Shop - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-13 which adopts an amended
interlocal agreement between the Kenton County Fiscal Court and several
Northern Kentucky cities, including Independence, for code enforcement. He
stated the amendment to the agreement will lower the overall budget of Planning
and Development Services (PDS) by one million dollars. Mayor Reinersman stated
this amendment will implement a 100% funding formula for PDS services to be
paid by each city for projects with that City’s jurisdiction, providing a
balance of the cost associated with the City’s level of use of the code
enforcement program. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-13 a second
reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-13.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-15 – 536 RAISE Grant
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-15 which authorizes the Mayor
to provide a letter offering financial support, (up to $50,000) from the city
as part of the Kenton County Fiscal Court’s Application to the United States
Department of Transportation (USDOT) for matching federal 536 RAISE Grant funds
for the widening and realignment of KY536 from KY 1303 to Williamswoods Drive.
He stated the widening does include an eight-foot-wide multi-use path. Attorney
Gatlin read Resolution No. 2021-R-15.  
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-15.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Award Bid – Street Bids, Phase II
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids for the Phase II of 2021 Street Resurfacing
Project. Mr. Moriconi stated the bids came back significantly lower than the
engineer’s estimate of $363,565. He stated the bids are for resurfacing of
Centennial Blvd, Marshall Road, new crosswalks and new curbs to eliminate
standing water. Mr. Moriconi stated the recommended bid is from Riegler
Blacktop with a bid of $285,017.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to accept the bid from Riegler Blacktop
for the Phase II 2021 Street Resurfacing Project. Council Member Franzen so
moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-
0.
Attorney Report
Attorney Gatlin stated the foreclosures are wrapping up and the city was able
to recoup about $5,000 in delinquent taxes.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the regular July meeting scheduled for Monday, July 5,
2021 will be cancelled and a special meeting will be held on Tuesday, July 6,
2021. He stated zoning issues are being discussed a lot lately and will be
talked about the next couple of months. Mayor Reinersman stated the
Independence Day Celebration will be held on Saturday, July 3rd. He stated the
events include the Cars and Pipes Car Show will be from 10:00 a.m. until 2:00
p.m., the parade will start at 3:00 p.m., festival events start at 4:00 p.m.
and will include drinks, food, live music and circus performances. Mayor
Reinersman stated the Police Department fundraising efforts have been
unbelievable and they have raised over $50,000 of the $75,000 goal for the
addition of the K-9 for the police department and donors will be able to put in
a name suggestion for the K-9.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:13 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
July 6, 2021
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 06, 2021               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Tuesday, July 6,
2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Deputy Clerk Chelsea Cox
and Attorney David Steele.
Approval of the June 14, 2021 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
June 14, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for special
meeting held on June 14, 2021. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second
by Council Member Shafer. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-16 – Z21 Zoning Update
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-16 which proposed a text
amendment which updates the Independence Zoning Code. He stated Planning and
Development Services (PDS) conducted an audit of each of the zoning codes in
Kenton County and developed a new zoning blueprint which is referred to as Z21:
Zoning for the 21st Century.
Kristen Martin and Patrick Denbow with Planning and Development Services (PDS)
presented the changes to the Kenton County zoning code. Mrs. Martin and Mr.
Denbow stated there have been several meetings to update the zoning code and
the Z21 plan included three phases: Audit, Blueprint and Implementation. She
stated the new articles are 2) Nonconformities, 3) Zoning Districts-will be
reduced from 23 zones to 16 zones, 4) Use Regulations and Standards, 5)
Dimensional Requirements, 7) Development Standards: lighting standards and
landscaping regulations, 8) Natural Resources and Environment: Stream and Water
Buffers, Green Development, Infill and Grayfield Development, 10) Parking and
Loading Standards, Access Management and Circulation, 13) Process and
Procedure: Combined Map/Variance/Conditional Use, Concept Development Plan and
Final Development Plan.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-16.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Council Meeting Schedule for Holidays – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which addresses when regular
scheduled council meetings fall on a holiday. He stated the ordinance clarifies
previous ordinances that discuss council meetings falling on holidays and they
will now be moved to the following Monday. Attorney Steele gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Municipal Order No. 2021-MO-02 – Personnel Policy Update
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2021-MO-02 which amends the
personnel policies and procedure manual for the City of Independence. Mr.
Moriconi stated there were several housekeeping changes such as removing the
reference to firefighters, changing commission to council, etc. Attorney Steele
read Municipal Order No. 2021-MO-02.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2021-MO-02.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Award Bid – 2021 Street Program
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids for the 2021 Street Program. Mr. Moriconi
stated there were two bids received: JPS Construction, Inc. for $600,500 and
Adleta Construction, Inc. for $867,442. He stated the alternative bid came in
higher than anticipated so Sylvan Drive will be done in house by public
services.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to accept the base bid from JPS
Construction, Inc. of $600,500 for the 2021 Street Program. Council Member
Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with
all ayes, 6-0.
Award Bid – Cody Road Reconstruction
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids for the Cody Road Reconstruction Project.
Mr. Moriconi stated there were two bids received: Riegler Blacktop for $386,563
and Eaton Asphalt for $464,232. He stated he would like to award the base and
the alternate bid with Riegler Blacktop. He stated the SNK grant was approved
for $400,000 and the City’s responsibility is 20%.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to accept the bid from Riegler Blacktop of
$386,563 for the Cody Road Reconstruction Project. Council Member Waite so
moved, with a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes,
6-0.
Attorney Report – David Steele
Attorney Steele stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated his appreciation to city staff, businesses and volunteers
for a successful Independence Day Celebration again for the 2021 event.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Day festival was a successful event
and thanked city staff and volunteers for all of their help. He stated the
Police Department has met and exceeded the $75,000 goal for the addition of a
K-9 to the Independence Police Department. Mayor Reinersman stated there was a
record crowd for the Cars and Pipes Show, which was hosted by the Independence
Business Association (IBA). He stated his appreciation to all the sponsors that
helped pay for the amazing fireworks display. Mayor Reinersman stated the July
Party in the Park concert is on the 8th and Fast Forward will be playing live
music and visitors are welcome to bring their own coolers and chairs.
Council Member Shafer presented a $1,001 donation to the Chief Lucas from the
Citizens Police Academy Alumni Association (CPAAA). He stated the money was
received as tips during the Independence Celebration while the CPAAA
volunteered at the beer booth to help raise money toward the K-9 Program.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:10 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
August 2, 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 2, 2021               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 2,
2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City Administrator
Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the July 6, 2021 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
July 6, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for special
meeting held on July 6, 2021. Council Member Vogelpohl so moved, with a second
by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
American Legion Moon Brothers Post 275 presented a $1,000 check to the
Independence Police Department for continued care for the K-9.
Council Member Waite arrived to the meeting at 7:08 p.m.
Tates Creek Development
Mayor Reinersman presented an update on the Tates Creek Development Proposal.
He stated the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) had a public hearing on
June 3, 2021 and it received an unfavorable recommendation for the development.
Council Member Waite made a motion to accept the unfavorable recommendation of
the Planning and Development Services staff for the Tates Creek Development.
Council Member Shafer made a second. Roll was called and votes were unanimous.
Motion passes, 6-0.
Bicycles on Sidewalk Discussion
Mayor Reinersman stated there was an issue with a juvenile riding a gas-powered
motorbike on a residential sidewalk, they lost control of the motorbike, hit a
car as well as suffered an injury. Captain Wood stated the Police Department
had some conversations with several residents within the Battleridge
subdivision and it was assumed the issue was resolved. Mr. Moriconi stated he
is checking with other cities to see how they address the situation and how
ordinances are worded.
Phil Compton, 10426 Antietam Ridge, Independence, KY– Mr. Compton asked for
council’s assistance with clarification on motorized vehicles riding within the
city and feels it’s unsafe for kids to ride on the sidewalk.
Amanda Fehler, 10415 Haversack Circle, Independence, KY – Mrs. Fehler stated
her concern for kids not being able to ride their bikes on the sidewalks in
their subdivision.
Sherry Rankin, 1232 Cannonball Way, Independence, KY – Mrs. Rankin stated her
daughter was the juvenile that was riding the minibike on the sidewalk and
fractured her ankle. She stated her and her husband were both outside and the
neighbor across the street walked over and told her she wasn’t allowed to be
riding her motorbike on the sidewalk and scared her and she wrecked.
David Coyle, 1231 Goldsborough Lane, Independence, KY – Mr. Coyle stated kids
need to be outside playing and the kids’ safety is the main concern and doesn’t
want the kids to have to ride their bikes in the street.
Council Member Shafer made a motion for a 5-minute recess at 7:56pm. Council
Member Engelman made a second. Council resumed the meeting at 8:03 p.m.
Ordinance No, 2021-O-14 – Council Meeting Schedule for Holidays – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-14 which addresses when regular
scheduled council meetings fall on a holiday. He stated the ordinance clarifies
previous ordinances that discuss council meetings falling on holidays and they
will now be moved to the following Monday. Attorney Steele gave Ordinance No.
2021-O-14 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-14.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Engelman.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-17 – Amendment to Development Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-17 which amends the original
the development agreement between the city and VTRE.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-17.
Council Member Engelman made a motion to approve with a second by Council
Member Brinker. Roll was called and the motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Supplements S-19 - S-25 to the Code of Ordinances
– 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance adopts the supplements S-19
through S-25 which adds all of the ordinances passed since 2018 to add to the
code of ordinances, which can be found online. Attorney Gatlin gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Annexation for Small Parcel for Van Trust Development –
1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which annexation a small parcel
which is contiguous to the present boundary lines. He stated this is for the
Van Trust Development. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated there will need to be a special meeting in late August for
the first reading and polled council for August 23rd or 30th. Council responded
and the tentative special meeting date for 6:00 p.m. on Monday, August 30,
2021.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Zero Knock List and Solicitation Ordinance has been
brought up lately and there are some solicitors that do not follow the
ordinance. He stated there was a recent Facebook campaign including a sign
residents could print out and post on their doors to notify solicitors they are
on the Zero Knock List. Mayor Reinersman stated the part time parks maintenance
employee has left to take a full-time position and the city is considering a
full-time maintenance position to help with parks and building maintenance. He
stated this position would help with building and park maintenance and would
help keep the rest of the maintenance guys working on streets, snow plowing,
etc.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:33 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
August 30, 2021
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 30, 2021               City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
30, 2021 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Council Member Engelman
was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, Deputy Clerk
Chelsea Cox and Attorney David Steele.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2021-2022 Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed resolution which adopts the tax rates for
the fiscal year of July 1,2021 through June 30, 2022. He stated $.271 per $100
for the real estate tax and $.634 per $100 for personal property taxes are the
current tax rates. Mayor Reinersman stated the assessed property values were up
15% for the year and he proposed a 10% rate decrease to $.244 for real estate
and $.595 for personal property. Attorney Steele gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Tax Rebate for 2021-2022 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts a tax rebate. He
stated the rebate will provide a one-time reduction 10% discount off the entire
real estate property tax bill if paid by December 31, 2021. Attorney Steele
gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2021-R-18 – CARES Grant
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-18 which authorizes and
approves the Mayor to sign the Memorandum of Agreement related to CARES grant
of $209,367. Attorney Steele read Resolution No. 2021-R-18.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-18.
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and votes were unanimous.
Motion passed, 5-0.
Attorney Report – David Steele
Attorney Steele stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the preliminary bids will be coming in shortly to terrace
the amphitheater hill.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the 2020 Census Data came back and we are still the
fasted growing city in Kenton County with a population of 28,676.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 6:33 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
September 13 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 13 2021                         City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
13, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer and Greg Waite. Council Member Vogelpohl
was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the August 2, 2021 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
August 2, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular
meeting held on August 2, 2021. Council Member Engelman so moved, with a second
by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Approval of the August 30, 2021 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
August 30, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for special
meeting held on August 30, 2021. Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second
by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-15 – Adopting Supplements S-19-S-25 to the Code of
Ordinances – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-15 which adopts the supplements
S-19 through S-25 to add all city ordinances passed since 2018 to the code of
ordinances. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-15 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-15.
Council Member Brinker so moved, with a second by Council Member Shafer. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Ordinance No, 2021-O-16 – Annexation for Small Parcel for Van Trust Development
– 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-16 which is an annexation a
small parcel which is contiguous to the present boundary lines. He stated this
is for the Van Trust Development. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-16
a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-16.
Council Member Shafer so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Ordinance No, 2021-O-17 – Adopting 2021-2022 Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O17 which adopts the tax rates
for the 2021-2022 fiscal year. He stated the real estate property tax rate will
be $.244 per $100 in value and $.595 per $100 in value for personal property.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-17 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-17.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Engelman. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Ordinance No, 2021-O-18 – Adopting 2021-2022 Tax Rebate – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O18 which adopts a one-time 10%
tax rebate for the real estate property taxes for 2021-2022 fiscal year if paid
before December 31, 2021. He stated the rebate is to help provide COVID-19
relief to residents and will not be covered by CARES Act monies. Attorney
Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-18 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-18.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Shafer. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Z21 Update – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which updates the Independence
Zoning Code. He stated Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Bicycles on Sidewalks – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the code of
ordinances which addresses bicycles on sidewalks. He stated the changes to the
ordinance are guidelines and helps give the police what they need to help with
enforcement. Captain Wood stated the Police Department mainly wanted to address
“in an unsafe manner” and toy vehicles. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2021-R-19 – CDBG Grant – Anti-Displacement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-19 which authorizing and
approving certain actions in connection with the community development block
grant coronavirus (CDBG-CV) utility relief program. He stated the project
amount is $200,000 for the City of Independence and is being administered by
the Northern Kentucky Area Development District (NKADD).
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-19.
Council Member Brinker made a motion to approve with a second by Council Member
Engelman. Roll was called and the motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2021-R-20 – CDBG Grant – Title VI
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-20 which authorized the Mayor
to sign the Title VI Statement of Assurances for the CCBG Grant.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-20.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve with a second by Council Member
Waite. Roll was called and the motion carried, 4-1 with Council Member Shafer
voting no.
Resolution No. 2021-R-21 – CDBG Grant – Fair Housing
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2021-R-21 which approves the fair
housing laws in regards to the CDBG Grant.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-20.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve with a second by Council Member
Brinker. Roll was called and the motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2021-R-21.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve with a second by Council Member
Brinker. Roll was called and the motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated there has been a large nationwide settlement and the
city can opt into the settlement and the monies can be used for Narcan and
safety equipment reimbursements.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated his appreciation to Hand in Hand Realty for sponsoring this
summer’s Parties at the Park. He stated the city is getting some estimates on
terracing of the amphitheater and hopefully it will be done sometime in 2022.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the 25th Annual Christmas Walk is going to happen on
Saturday, December 4th and will include the Santa Run 5K, craft market, parade
and other holiday festivities. He stated the restrooms and shelters at Memorial
Park are underway and should be finished by spring of 2022.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:12 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
October 4 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 4 2021                             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
4, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky. In the absence of Mayor
Reinersman, Council Member Shafer made a motion to appoint Council Member
Franzen to run the meeting until the Mayor arrived, the rest of council agreed.
Council Member Franzen called the meeting to order, led the Pledge of
Allegiance and the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Waite
and Chris Vogelpohl. Council Member Engelman was absent. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the September 13, 2021 Council Meeting Minutes
Council Member Franzen asked Council if there were any changes or corrections
they would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting
held on September 13, 2021.
Council Member Franzen called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for
regular meeting held on September 13, 2021. Council Member Waite so moved, with
a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Mayor Reinersman arrived to the meeting at 7:08 p.m.
PUD – Stage II Development – Bill Aseere
Mr. Aseere presented the Stage II Development Plan for the PUD Zone for the
proposed 5,500 square feet retail building on Centennial. He said the building
would include two restaurants and a liquor store in the middle space. Mr.
Aseere stated once businesses are here in the city, they do great but many
franchises don’t think we have enough population and/or traffic.
Patrick Denbow, PDS Senior Planner, stated if Council adds any major changes,
the applicant would need to start over with a Stage I Plan and if Council
decides the changes are minor and approve, the project can move forward.
Council had some discussion and there were concerns regarding the two drive
thru plan as well as adequate parking. Mr. Moriconi stated the PUD property was
intended for a retail space like the proposed project. Attorney Gatlin stated
if Council was comfortable with the plan, they would need a motion to approve
and Mr. Aseere could continue the process with the proposed project.
Council Member Brinker made a motion to deem the updated PUD Plan proposal as a
minor change and to move forward. Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was
called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-19 – Z21 Update – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-19 which updates the
Independence Zoning Code. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-19 a second
reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-19.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Franzen. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2021-O-20 – Bicycles on Sidewalks – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2021-O-20 which amends the code of
ordinances addressing bicycles on sidewalks. He stated the changes to the
ordinance are guidelines and helps give the police what they need to help with
enforcement. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2021-O-20 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2021-O-20.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Shafer. Roll
was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Surplus Property
Mayor Reinersman stated there are two vehicles the city will be disposing of
and list for auction on www.govdeals.com. He stated the vehicles are a 2009
Dodge Charger and 2012 Ford Taurus.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve to surplus the vehicles and
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated there is more information regarding the settlement and
should start seeing money in the next 60-90 days.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated Nathan Baker will be the new Building and Utility
Maintenance Person and will start in the next two weeks.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman presented the Extra Mile Day Proclamation which recognizes
volunteerism and service and proclaimed November 1, 2021 as Extra Mile Day. He
stated there have been several reports and complaints regarding the blasting
going on at the new Van Trust development off Mt. Zion Road. Mayor Reinersman
stated Mr. Moriconi has reached out and they have agreed to just blast in the
afternoons once a day between the hours of 12 p.m. and 5 p.m. and they will let
the city know so it can be communicated to residents ahead of time.
Council Member Brinker questioned when US 17 will be re-paved. Mr. Moriconi
stated he was told that Riegler Blacktop was awarded the bid and the project
should be completed until May 2022.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:55p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
November 1 2021
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of November 1 2021                              City of Independence,
Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
1, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and Cub
Scouts Feuser and Walter from Pack 808 led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council
Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator
Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin, Police Chief
Lucas and Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the October 4, 2021 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
October 4, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular
meeting held on October 4, 2021. Council Member Shafer so moved with a noted
correction in regards to present Council Members, with a second by Council
Member Brinker. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Downs of Nicholson Updated
Mayor Reinersman stated the One Holland Group recently made some plan changes
to the Downs of Nicholson development. Petey Cunningham from the One Holland
Group stated the residential section will now be a total of 90 patio homes as
well as a public gym. Mayor Reinersman stated the development will include a
Roy Rogers restaurant and a microbrewery and the project will likely start by
the end of 2022 with completion of the project hopefully in the fall of 2023 or
early 2024.
Proposed Ordinance – Updated Franchise Agreement w/TBNK/Cincinnati Bell – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which updates the franchise
agreement with Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories LLC.
Tim Broering, Executive Director with Telecommunications Board of Northern
Kentucky (TBNK)  stated he has been working on this agreement for a couple of
years. He stated Charter is the main company and the updated agreement is valid
for 10 years with an initial period of 5 years with an automatic renewal period
of an additional 5 years. The agreement is for CB to offer cable tv services
(not broadband internet services) with the same 5% franchise fee. Mayor
Reinersman stated the franchise agreement is giving permission to the provider
to install services in the city’s right of way. Attorney Gatlin gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Compensation Update – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which updates the annual salary
for the mayor from $15,000 to $25,000, effective January 1, 2023. He stated by
statute the salary of elected officials cannot be changed during a term and the
salary of the mayor hasn’t been updated since 2007. Council Member Franzen
stated she was the one who brought up the idea after how much work and time the
Mayor does in our city. Council had some discussion about adding health
insurance as an added benefit for the mayor as well in the possible future.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated there was a huge foreclosure ramp up within the last 6
months and it’s now leveled off. He stated we currently have 12 active
foreclosures in the city, which is back to normal.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated Cody Road has finally been repaved and hopefully the bridge
will be replaced next. He stated he was told Oliver and Cox Road will be
repaved in the next month or so.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated he is working with legislators to keep pushing our
street repair projects which include Oliver, Cox, Bristow and Hwy 17. He stated
the first phase of the 536 project has been completed. Mayor Reinersman stated
the Van Trust project on 536, which has been named Park 536, is moving along
and they will be leaving a lot of trees on the hillside. Mayor Reinersman
stated the Christmas Walk will be on December 4th with many holiday festivities
throughout the city including a craft show and a 5K. He stated the Independence
Ball will be on November 20th at Saint Barbara Church which honors veterans and
first responders as well as creates fellowship in the community.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:54 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
2022 Minutes
January 10, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 10, 2022                              City of Independence,
Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
10, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard,
Attorney Jack Gatlin, Captain Russ Wood and Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Matt Grimes with the Kenton County Rotary Club presented a $500 donation for
the K-9 Program.
Executive Order No. 2022-EO-01 – Appointment to Independence Senior Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2021-EO-01 which appoints
Richard Tabben to the Independence Senior Board.
Approval of the December 6, 2021 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
December 6, 2021.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular
meeting held on December 6, 2021. Council Member Shafer so moved with a second
by Council Member Waite. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Troopers Crossing Easement
Mayor Reinersman stated in the 1990s, PDS approved Troopers Crossing
subdivision with some green space. He stated resident Mr. Ellis recently
purchased several acres and in the process of possibly selling a piece of
property and learned that the city was given first right of refusal. Mayor
Reinersman stated the city should discuss before releasing the property for
possibly walking trails. There was some discussion from Council regarding the
issue. Mr. Gatlin stated the city has a right to an easement on the property.
Council Member Waite made a motion to release the rights to the property and
for the mayor to sign the necessary documents needed to release the property to
the current property owner. Council Member Vogelpohl moved with a second.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Z-21 Amendment – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance repealing the current zoning
code and map and replacing with an updated zoning code and map. He stated the
text amendment meets the requirements of KRS 100.201(2) and KRS 100.203(1).
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2022-R-XX – American Rescue Plan Act Fund Authorization – pulled
from Agenda
Mayor Reinersman stated this resolution regarding the American Rescue Plan Act
Fund Authorization. is being tabled and being pulled from the agenda for now as
there were some changes recent change announced and it needs to be reviewed
again before passing.
Resolution No. 2022-R-01 – CC Text Amendment
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-01 which is a proposal for a
text amendment to consider removing outdoor storage as a conditional use of the
Community Commercial (CC) zone. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-01.
Mayor Reinersman stated there are two interested parties in expanding self-
storage in the Cherokee Shopping Center.
Hark Investments is the current owner of the separate building to the left.
Edward Turner, who is the property manager, said they are wanting to open back
up the laundromat add additional self-enclosed storage. Chris Moriconi stated
the separate building will be going before the board of adjustments in a couple
of weeks because of the variance.
David Cooper, resident, stated he likes the idea and think it would be a good
business with the apartments.
John Huffman, owner of Beechgrove Self Storage – Mr. Huffman stated he has
interest in purchasing the storage facility and adjacent building in the
Cherokee Plaza and updating the storage facility. He presented to council his
ideas are for the Cherokee Plaza with self-storage and other mixed uses in the
spaces. Mr. Huffman stated it would create new synergy in a dying area and the
outside access creates a safer space. Mayor Reinersman stated there are design
standards that include minimal metal or concrete on buildings. He stated self-
storage is mainly seen in industrial areas and it might deter other retail
business from wanting to open in the plaza. Council had some discussion and
agreed to trust him at this point.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022-R-01 and a
second by Council Member Engelman. Roll was called and motion carried with all
ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2022-R-02 – Build Grant MOA Authorization
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-02 which authorizes the Mayor
to sign the Memorandum of Agreement related to the USDOT Build Grant for the KY
536 Project. He stated the city has pledged $50,000 in local funding towards
the project. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-02.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022-R-02.
Council Member Waite so moved, with a second by Council Member Vogelpohl.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2022-EO-02 – Appointment to PDS Council
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2021-EO-02 which re-appoints
Mayor Reinersman as the primary representative to the Planning and Development
Services Council and Carol Franzen as the alternative representative for 2022.
Surplus Property – Firearms
Mayor Reinersman presented a list of firearms which includes 36 Glock 22s, 4
Glock 23s, 37 Glock 27s and 10 rifles that the police department wishes to
surplus the weapons to Trigger Firearms of Florence.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the surplus property. Council
Member Franzen made a motion, Council Member Engelman made a second. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi shared some plan images of the amphitheater terracing. He stated
there will be three sets of stairs coming up the hill with several flat areas
and a large cross walk as well as two viewing areas at the top of the hill. Mr.
Moriconi stated construction is expected to start mid-July and wrapped up by
end of November. He added the party in the park concerts will be held in May,
June and July for 2022. Mr. Moriconi stated the pickleball courts and restrooms
should also be under construction this summer.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated there have been some redistricting throughout the city
and the county clerk is working on putting a new map together.
Council Member Franzen stated after looking into it further, in order for the
city to allow the mayor to be eligible for the city’s medical plan, the council
needs to bless the current mayor to be added as an eligible participant to the
health insurance plan. There was some discussion amongst council about the
issue and it was agreed that it should be offered to the mayor as long as the
appropriate time is put in by the mayor.
Council Member Franzen made a motion for the current mayor to be eligible for
the city’s medical insurance plan as a fringe benefit because he puts in the
time and dedication. Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and
votes were unanimous. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 9:23 p.m.
 
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
February 7, 2022
 
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 7, 2022                              City of Independence,
Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
7, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard,
Attorney Jack Gatlin, Captain Russ Wood and Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the January 10, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
January 10, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular
meeting held on January 10, 2022. Council Member Shafer so moved with a second
by Council Member Engelman. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Mayor Reinersman presented awards of recognition to Ken and Marilyn Noll. He
thanked them for their many years of service for being a valuable part of the
VIPS (volunteers in police service) program and assisting the police department
for the past 20 years.
Mayor Reinersman presented resident Faye Powers with a Proclamation and Key to
the City. He stated his appreciation too Mrs. Powers for her assistance with
the Senior Center and recreation programs over the past 13 years.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-01 – Z-21 Amendment – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-01 which repeals the current
zoning code and map and replacing with an updated zoning code and map. He
stated the text amendment meets the requirements of KRS 100.201(2) and KRS
100.203(1). Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2022-O-01 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O-01.
Council Member Waite so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2022-R-XX – Authorization for RSA Advisors for ARPA Funds -
Pulled from Agenda
Mayor Reinersman stated it is being pulled from the agenda.
Resolution No. 2022-R-03 – American Rescue Plan Act Fund Authorization
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-03 which permits the city to
utilize the ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act) Funding for government services. He
stated the city received $3,692,884.87 in 2021. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution
No. 2022-R-03.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022-R-04.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the trash contract with Rumpke expires in June 2022 and he
is working on the bid packet which will go out in March. Council Member Brinker
mentioned the large item pickup issue.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated four new police officers were sworn in earlier in the
day whom will all be attending the Police Academy in May. He stated Miss
Independence Tamara Whaley brought in valentines for the Police Department.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:28 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
                     Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
March 7, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 7, 2022                         City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 7,
2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and some local boy
scouts led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered \present: Tom
Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Council
Member Engelman was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi,
City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin, Captain Russ Wood and Police
Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the February 7, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
February 7, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular
meeting held on February 7, 2022. Council Member Waite so moved with a second
by Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Proposed Ordinance - Text Amendment for Storage - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the text of the
Independence Zoning Code to remove mini-warehouses and personal storage as
conditional uses in the CC (Community Commercial) Zone. He stated there was a
public hearing at the Kenton County Planning Commission on February 3, 2022 and
approved the text amendment. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
John Hoffman, owner of Beechgrove Self Storage, he stated he submitted a
revised plan today. He stated a traffic study will be done for the Cherokee
Center. Mr. Hoffman stated Bigby Coffee has committed and will be going into
the strip center and is available to meet with anyone to discuss anytime.
Proposed Ordinance - Amended Employee Pay & Classification - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the employee pay
and classification plan for two positions. He stated with the upcoming
retirement of our current Parks and Recreation Facilitator, it’s created an
opportunity to look at several positions. Mayor Reinersman stated that Julie
Callahan, the Senior Center Director, will be moving to full time and a new
part time position of Program Coordinator is being created. Attorney Gatlin
gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance - Text Amendment for Family Child Care - 1st Reading 
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the Independence
Zoning ordinance making any necessary revisions related to family child care
homes for compliance with Senate Bill 148 and KRS 199. Attorney Gatlin gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading and stated this was heard at the February
Kenton County Planning Commission meeting and was recommended by PDS staff as
well.
Resolution No. 2022-R-04 – Memorandum Of Understanding with Kenton County –
Kimberly Drive/Independence Station Road Improvement Project
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-04 which approves and
authorizes the Mayor to sign the Memorandum of Understanding related to a
Kimberly Drive improvement project in conjunction with Kenton County. He stated
the intersection of Kimberly Drive and Independence Station is dangerous for
school buses to pull out as well as residential vehicles passing through. Mayor
Reinersman stated the project cost would be split between the city and county,
not to exceed a total of $750,000. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-
04. Mr. Moriconi stated with the Meadow Glen subdivision and Fox Run trails,
traffic has doubled on Independence Station Road.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022-R-04.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Waite. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2022-R-05 – RAISE Grant - 536 Widening Project
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-05 which authorizes the Mayor
to provide a letter offering financial support, up to $50,000, for the Federal
536 RAISE Grant to widening and realign KY536 from Calvary Drive to KY17.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-05.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022-R-05.
Council Member Waite so moved with a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Award Bid – Pickleball Courts
Mayor Reinersman stated we received one bid from Riegler Blacktop for the
pickleball courts. He stated the engineer’s estimate was $231,300 and Riegler’s
bid was $292,056.50.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to accept the bid from Riegler Blacktop
for the pickleball court and half of basketball court with fencing and
lighting. Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried with all ayes,
5-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated Gary Holland, of One Holland Group, has agreed to be
the primary sponsor for the July 4th fireworks display again for 2022. He
stated John Vince with Hand in Hand Realty has agreed to sponsor this year’s
party in the park concerts again. Mayor Reinersman stated due to timing,
terracing the amphitheater is likely going to be pushed back to bid this fall/
winter with construction in the spring of 2023. He stated this year’s 4th of
July celebration is back to two days with rides, music and fireworks.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Vogelpohl to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:52 p.m.
               _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
April 4, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of April 4, 2022                         City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 4,
2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and Scout Jake from
Troop 31 led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen and Dave Shafer. Council
Members Vogelpohl and Waite were absent. Also present was City Administrator
Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin, Captain Russ
Wood and Police Chief Tony Lucas.
Approval of the March 7, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
March 7, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular
meeting held on March 7, 2022. Council Member Shafer so moved with a second by
Council Member Franzen. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-02 -Text Amendment for Storage - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-02 which amends the text of the
Independence Zoning Code to remove mini-warehouses and personal storage as
conditional uses in the CC (Community Commercial) Zone. He stated there was a
public hearing at the Kenton County Planning Commission (KCPC) on February 3,
2022 where the text amendment was unanimously approved. Attorney Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2022-O-02 a second reading.
Todd McMurtry (attorney representing John Huffman) - Mr. McMurtry stated KCPC’s
agreement is strictly zone recommendations, not what is best for the community
and area. He stated Mr. Huffman will be presenting an updated plan with
alternatives.
John Huffman, owner of Beechgrove and Crescent Springs Self Storage Centers.
Mr. Huffman stated he understands that retail generates more payroll taxes and
storage is part of people’s lives when things change. He stated he is planning
to demolish the small side building as the walls are leaning as it’s unsafe.
Mr. Huffman shared his plans of what the storage center would look like during
the day as well as at night. He stated each unit would be separate and would
have sprinklers so in case of a fire, it would be contained and not spread. Mr.
Huffman stated he could sell the parking lot to a developer and put in a gas
station instead of storage. He stated he understands and would conform to
landscape buffers and other requirements set forth for the project.
Laura Mitchell, 6430 Adahi Drive – Ms. Mitchell stated Mr. Huffman stopped by
her house to discuss the storage plan. She stated she wants to keep the trees
and deer in her backyard. Ms. Mitchell stated she doesn’t want to look out her
backyard and see a building and is not in favor of additional storage building
in the lot behind her house.
Karyl Shouse, 737 Cox Road – she stated she’s lived in the city for 25 years.
She doesn’t have a problem with storage but doesn’t want to lose the wooded
area behind her house. She was also concerned the additional storage building
in her backyard would lower her property value.
Katherine Huffman, 2256 Devlin Place, daughter of John Huffman – she stated the
dead trees in the lot would be removed and there would be a landscape buffer
zone so there will still be trees in the neighbors’ back yards. Ms. Huffman
stated they offer free police training on the premise.
Mr. John Huffman stated there are requirements for approval for such as
buffers, setbacks, etc.
Council Member Franzen stated her concern regarding Mr. Huffman telling her his
plan to remove the landscape buffer by the storm pond. Mr. Huffman stated they
no longer are interested in the 4th parcel.
Jack Gatlin stated this is not a proposal for a map amendment. He stated
council is voting on a text amendment which removes self-storage as a
conditional use in a Community Commercials (CC) zone, not voting specifically
on Mr. Huffman’s project.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O-02.
Council Member Brinker so moved with a second by Council Member Shafer. Motion
carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-03 - Amended Employee Pay & Classification - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-03 which amends the employee
pay and classification plan for the position of Senior Center Director as well
as adding Program Coordinator. He stated with the upcoming retirement of
current Parks and Recreation Facilitator, it’s created an opportunity to look
at several positions. Mayor Reinersman stated that Julie Callahan, the Senior
Center Director, will be moving to full time and a new part time position of
Program Coordinator will be added. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2022-O-03
a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O-03.
Council Member Engelman so moved with a second by Council Member Franzen.
Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-04 -Text Amendment for Family Child Care - 2nd Reading 
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-04 which amends the
Independence Zoning Ordinance making any necessary revisions related to family
child care homes for compliance with Senate Bill 148 and KRS 199. Attorney
Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2022-O-04 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O-04.
Council Member Franzen so moved with a second by Council Member Brinker. Motion
carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Proposed Ordinance - Amended 2021-2022 Budget - 1st Reading 
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the 2021-2022
budget. He stated the federal grants line item went up as we received
additional CARES Act monies. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Executive Order No. 2022-EO-03 – Appointment to the Senior Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2022-EO-03 which appoints
Marissa Kidd to the Independence Senior Board.
Award Bid – 2022 Street Project
Mayor Reinersman stated we received one bid from Paul Michels & Sons for the
2022 Street Project. He stated the engineer’s estimate was $693,662.50 and Paul
Michels’ bid was $857,058.75. Mr. Moriconi stated the project is for concrete
tear-outs and he asked council to approve the Part A which is for Constitution
Drive, Liberty Drive and Cobblestone Drive. He stated our public services
department can take care of Part B which is reconstruction of Falcon Ridge from
Bristow to Kestrel.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to accept the bid from Paul Michels & Sons
for the 2022 Street Project for the Part A. Council Member Engelman made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated they have added a new attorney, Alex Kerns, to their
firm and she is interested in government law and will be attending meetings.  
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the city’s current contract with Rumpke expires June 30,
2022. He stated Rumpke was the only bid we received for the trash and recycling
services. Mr. Moriconi stated more information will be presented at the next
meeting when reviewing the 2022-2023 budget.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Egg Hunt is scheduled for Saturday,
April 9th at Memorial Day with a rain date of April 16th. He stated the
decision will be made on Wednesday, April 6th on whether to have it or push
back to the 16th. Mayor Reinersman stated there will be thousands of eggs,
jugglers and prizes and thanked Hickory Grove Baptist for partnering again this
year. Mayor Reinersman stated Blink is going on again this October in
Cincinnati, Covington and Newport. He stated the Greater Cincinnati Chamber is
hoping that Northern Kentucky can help raise two million dollars for the non-
profit event. He is proposing $29,000 which is $1 per resident for our city,
using our ARPA funds. Mayor Reinersman stated HB565 allows up to 10% of the
Police Recruitment training to be completed online. He stated the bill was
sponsored by Kim Moser and is awaiting the Governor’s signature. Mayor
Reinersman stated the fencing is being replaced at Sterling Staggs at the
baseball field.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Engelman to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:35 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                  Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
May 2, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 2, 2022                                    City of Independence,
Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 2,
2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and Scout Jake from
Troop 31 led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the
invocation. Roll was called and the following Council Members registered
present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg
Waite. Council Member Engelman was absent. Also present was City Administrator
Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Captain Russ
Wood.
Approval of the April 4, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
April 4, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular
meeting held on April 4, 2022. Council Member Franzen made a motion and Council
Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Mayor’s Budget Address
Mayor Reinersman stated some new things coming to Independence are some
restaurants, a car wash and the Downs of Nicholson which will offer an upscale
restaurant, a micro-brewery, a gas station and several patio homes. He stated
our long time Parks and Recreation Director, Nita Brake, is retiring later this
month. Mayor Reinersman stated there will be substantial improvements made to
Memorial Park and there will be a reduction in property tax rates for the
second year in a row. He stated there is a projected increase of $400,000 in
payroll/occupational tax revenue. Mayor Reinersman stated the city anticipates
to receive more than $7 million in federal funds from the American Recovery
Plan Act (ARPA) and along with tax reduction, the plan is to transform change
in Memorial Park by adding pickleball courts, more restrooms, an additional
shelter, another half basketball court, and adding steps and terracing the
hillside of the Donna Yeager Amphitheater.
Proposed Ordinance - Amended 2021-2022 Budget - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the 2021-2022
budget. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading. Finance
Director Terri Hudson stated there has been special projects allocated with
some of the ARPA funds in the 2021-2022 amended budget.
Proposed Ordinance - Adopting the 2022-2023 Budget - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts the 2022-2023
budget. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance - Employee Pay Classification for 2022-2023 - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts the employee pay
and classification for the 2022-2023 year. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Award Bid – Trash and Recycling
Mayor Reinersman presented the trash bid received. Mr. Moriconi stated the
existing contract and extensions with Rumpke expire on June 30, 2022. He stated
Rumpke was the only bid received. Mr. Moriconi stated the current monthly rate
is $14.71 and the proposed new rate is $20.35 per month. He stated the new rate
includes items picked up outside the cart up to 75 pounds as well as the large
green recycling cart and price is locked in for 3 years. Mr. Moriconi stated
the large item pick-up should be picked up the same day as the property’s
normal service day.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to accept the bid from Rumpke and
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and votes were unanimous.
Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated foreclosures are ramping back up and more information to
come in the future.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the new restrooms and pickleball courts are under
progress at Memorial Park. He stated the Independence Egg Hunt was a huge
success and expressed his thanks to partners Hickory Grove Baptist. Mayor
Reinersman stated the July 4th celebration is back to normal this year with
rides, music, food and fireworks. He stated Friday will be family fun night
with Circus Mojo, discounted ride bracelets as well as a roman candle display.
Mayor Reinersman stated the first Party in the Park will be on May 26th
featuring the Whammies, Doghouse on June 9th, Borderline 360 on July 14th and
Lunchbox on August 11th.
Council Member Brinker stated his concern for the run down Cherokee Shopping
Center and what can the city to do to help clean it up. Mayor Reinersman stated
he has reached out to PDS in regards to what resources we have to bring that
area back to life.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:55 p.m.
               _____________________________________
               Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
June 6, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 6, 2022
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 6,
2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky. In Mayor Reinersman’s absence,
Council Member Franzen called the meeting to order, led the Pledge of
Allegiance and led the invocation. Roll was called and the following Council
Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy Engelman, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City Administrator
Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Captain Russ
Wood.
Approval of the May 2, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Council Member Franzen asked Council if there were any changes or corrections
they would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting
held on May 2, 2022.
Council Member Franzen called for a motion to approve the meeting minutes for
regular meeting held on May 2, 2022. Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion and
Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Council Member Engelman made a motion to recess until Mayor Reinersman arrived.
Council Member Waite made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0. Meeting
went into recess at 7:04 p.m.
Mayor Reinersman arrived to the meeting at 7:12 p.m.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to return from recess back into the
meeting. Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-
0. Meeting went back into session at 7:13 p.m.
Check Presentation – IBA
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Business Association (IBA) would like
to make a donation to the Independence Fire District. Greg Corwin presented a
check for $500 to the Independence Fire District.
Resolution No. 2022-R-06 – BLINK Resolution
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-06 which approves a one-time
donation of $29,000 to meetNKY for the 2022 BLINK event held in Northern
Kentucky and Cincinnati. He stated the event will help bring tourism to NKY and
can use ARPA funds which are available to help promote tourism and many of our
residents.
Julie Kirkpatrick with meetNKY and Brent Cooper with NKY Chamber of Commerce
shared that this event draws people from all over the country. Mr. Cooper
stated the ARPA funds were dispersed to help areas that lacked tourism over the
past couple of years.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-06.
Council Member Brinker made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022- R-06.
Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with a vote of 4-2. Council
Members Vogelpohl and Waite were opposed.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-05 – Amended 2021-2022 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-05 which amends the 2021-2022
budget.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2022-O-05 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O- 05 which
amends the 2021-2022 budget. Council Member Franzen made a motion and Council
Member Engelman made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 Ordinance No. 2022-O-06 – Adopting the 2022-2023 Budget – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-06 which adopts the 2022-2023
budget. Mayor Reinersman stated the new budget includes a lower tax rate, which
makes two years in a row.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2022-O-06 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman stated the entire Police Department was looked at piece by
piece and that we do offer a great benefits package, including lots of accrued
paid leave (APL). He stated it can be reviewed and revised later in the year if
we find ourselves out of line with our competition.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O- 06 which
adopts the 2022-2023 budget. Council Member Franzen made a motion and Council
Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-07 – Employee Pay Classification for 2022-2023– 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-07 which adopts the employee
pay and classification for the 2022-2023 year. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance
No. 2022-O-07 a second reading.
Council Members Waite and Vogelpohl stated a suggestion of creating grades for
all positions. Mayor Reinersman stated his concern with changing to grade and
tying that compensation to years of service. He stated to institute the change
would essentially create another layer of numbers to calculate and amend each
year based on what raises would be and we can’t guarantee a certain raise each
year. Mayor Reinersman stated a deep dive is done on salaries every couple of
years and we adjust accordingly. He stated the minimum and maximum are required
to be laid out each year by statute.
Council Member Vogelpohl stated he would like to sit down and discuss the
possibility of adding grades to the payscale going forward.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O- 07 which
adopts the employee pay and classification for 2022-2023. Council Member
Engelman made a motion and Council Member Brinker made a second. Motion carried
with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2022-R-07 – 2028 Centennial – Stage II Development Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-07 which conditionally
approves the 5,500 square foot Stage II Development Plan at 2028 Centennial
Boulevard.
Patrick Denbow, Senior Planner with Planning and Development Services (PDS),
stated they have conditionally approved the development plan with revisions to
the lighting level and landscape type 2 buffer in the final plan. Mr. Denbow
stated there is some flexibility regarding to the type 2 buffer with options of
a 15-foot strip with fencing and vegetation or a 30 foot strip with just
vegetation
Bill Aseere, co-owner of Space Cowboys, stated his appreciation of lowering the
property tax rates again this year. He stated he is seeking clarification on
what type 2 landscape buffer means. Mr. Aseere stated they are wanting to house
their offices at this location as well as at least one restaurant, one with a
drive thru.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-07.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022- R-07 which
approves the Sate II Development Plan for 2028 Centennial Blvd. Council Member
Waite made a motion and Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried
with all ayes, 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2022-EO-04 – Appointment to the Northern Kentucky
Independent District Board of Health
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2022-EO-04 which appoints Carol
Franzen as Mayor Reinersman’s designee to the Northern Kentucky Independent
District Board of Health. He stated this appointment takes effect immediately.
Award Bid – Concrete
Mayor Reinersman presented the concrete bids received from Ernst Concrete and
Hometown Concrete. Mr. Moriconi stated concrete work is bid out each year for
projects throughout the city. He stated Ernst’s bid came in at $1,294 for 10
cubic yards and Hometown’s bid came in at $1,354 per 10 cubic yards. Mr.
Moriconi stated our public services does the concrete tear out and we have a
concrete company come in to pour and finish projects throughout the city. Mr.
Moriconi stated the suggested bid to accept is for Ernst Concrete, which is who
the city is currently using.
Council Member Engelman made a motion to accept the bid from and Council Member
Vogelpohl made a second. Roll was called and votes were unanimous. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi expressed his appreciation for everyone’s hard work on this year’s
budget. He introduced Sharon Price, who is the city’s new Program Coordinator
that will be handling events throughout the city, upon Nita Brake’s recent
retirement.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated his recommendation of bringing the Board of Adjustments
back to the city, and get out of Kenton County joint board. He stated we will
put the word out to residents to see about finding board members. Attorney
Gatlin stated there will need to be 5-7 board members and they will need
training on the role of the board of adjustments.
Mayor Reinersman stated he will soon be joining Chief Lucas to see Brian
Ferayorni graduate from the FBI Academy. He added that the police department’s
command staff are all graduates of the FBI Academy. Mayor Reinersman stated his
appreciation to Nita Brake for almost 25 years of service to the city, whom
retired last month. He stated Doghouse will be performing for the Party in the
Park on June 9th. Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Day Celebration is
back in full force this year with 2 days of rides, fireworks and fun.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:39 p.m.
_____________________________________
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
July 11, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 11, 2022
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 11,
2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Council Member Engelman was absent.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Gabbard,
Attorney Jack Gatlin and Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the June 6, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
June 6, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on June 6, 2022. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to approve the meeting minutes for regular meeting held on June 6, 2022.
Council Member Waite made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2022-R-08 – Park 536 Project Bond – Building 1
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-08 which authorizes the
issuance of up to $28,000,000 for Industrial Revenue Bonds, Series 2022A,
issued to assist COI Park 536 Building 1, LLC to finance the costs related to
acquisition, installation, construction, and equipping of an industrial
building facility located within the city.
Jim Parsons, Attorney with Keating Muething & Klekamp PLL, stated there is no
responsibility of the city and costs associated with the bonds are the
responsibility of the developer.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-08.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to Resolution No. 2022-R-08 which
authorizes the issuance of up to $28,000,000 for the Park 536, Building 1.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve. Council Member Vogelpohl made a
second. Roll was called with four (4) yes votes and Council Member Shafer
abstained. 4-0, Motion carried.
Resolution No. 2022-R-09 – Park 536 Project Bond – Building 2
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-09 which authorizes the
issuance of up to $42,000,000 maximum aggregate for Industrial Revenue Bonds,
Series 2022B, issues to assist COI Parks 536 Land, LLC. to finance the costs
related to acquisition, installation, construction, and equipping of an
industrial building facility located within the city.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-09.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to Resolution No. 2022-R-08 which
authorizes the issuance of up to $42,000,000 for the Park 536, Building 2.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve. Council Member Brinker made a
second. Roll was called and there were 4 yes votes and Council Member Shafer
abstained. 4-0, Motion carried.
Resolution No. 2022-R-10 – Final Development Plan for 133-C McCullum Pike
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-10 which approves the final
development plan for 133-C McCullum Pike to construct a three-story senior
living facility, with a density of 13.15 units per acre. He stated this is the
second phase of this development and the first section is almost full. Planning
and Development Services (PDS) approved the development plan.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-10.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022- R-10 which
approves the final development plan for senior living at 133-C McCullum.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve. Council Member Franzen made
a second. Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 5-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he was at Disney for July 4th and was upset he missed
the Independence Fireworks.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the Cherokee Plaza still needs some work and are hoping the
PDS Management Board will help work on ideas to market the area to help clean
up the plaza. He stated the amphitheater project will be bid out this fall and
construction will start in the spring of 2023.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation for everyone that made this year’s
Independence Celebration happen again. He shared a special thanks to sponsors
One Holland Group, Vito’s Fireworks, Hickory Grove Baptist and Good Spirits,
Wine and Tobacco. Mayor Reinersman stated he swore in two new police officers
today and hopes to get them into the Academy in September.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:33 p.m.
_____________________________________
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Gabbard, City Clerk
August 1, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 1, 2022
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 1,
2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris
Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Council Members Brinker and Engelman were absent.
Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe,
Attorney Jack Gatlin and Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the July 11, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
July 11, 2022. Council Member Franzen mentioned one change to the Mayor asking
for motion, instead of her.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the amended council meeting
minutes from the regular meeting held on July 11, 2022. Council Member Franzen
made a motion to approve the amended meeting minutes for the regular meeting
held on July 11, 2022. Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes, 4-0.
Resolution No. 2022-R-11 – Authorizing Investments with Heritage Wealth
Management
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-11 which authorizes the city
to invest with Heritage Wealth Management; Ameriprise Financial Institutions
Group. Finance Director Terri Franklin stated it is recommended to ladder the
investments at different time frames. She stated the current interest rate of
our checking account is 1.25% and the recommended investments are projecting a
2.2% return. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-11
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to Resolution No. 2022-R-11 which
authorizes the city to invest with Heritage Wealth Management. Council Member
Franzen made a motion to approve. Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was
called and motion carried with a vote of 4-0.
Resolution No. 2022-R-12 – Authorizing Vivitech for IT Services
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-09 which authorizes and
approves the mayor to sign a contract with Vivitec, Inc to improve cyber
security in the City of Independence.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to Resolution No. 2022-R-12 which
authorizes and approves the mayor to sign a contract with Vivitec, Inc. Council
Member Franzen made a motion to approve. Council Member Waite. Roll was called
and motion carried with a vote of 4-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amended Employee Pay Classification 2022-2023-1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance amending the employee pay
classification plan. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Updating Hogrefe Road Speed Limit - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance reducing the speed limit
beginning at 732 Hogrefe Road westward to the end of Hogrefe Road from 35 miles
per hour to 20 miles per hour. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a
first reading.
Surplus Property – Various Police Equipment
Mayor Reinersman stated the police have numerous items to declare as surplus
property such as vehicle accessories, cameras and radios. He stated the items
will be listed for auction on GovDeals.com.
SRO Addition
Mayor Reinersman stated the city wishes to add an additional School Resource
Officer (SRO) for Summit View Academy.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve adding an additional SRO and
Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 4-0.
City Attorney’s Report
Attorney Gatlin stated he was at Disney for July 4th and was upset he missed
the Independence Fireworks this year.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the Cherokee Plaza still needs some work and are hoping the
PDS Management Board will help work on ideas to market the area to help clean
up the plaza. He stated the amphitheater project will be bid out this fall and
construction will start in the spring of 2023.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation for everyone that made this year’s
Independence Celebration happen again. He shared a special thanks to sponsors
One Holland Group, Vito’s Fireworks, Hickory Grove Baptist and Good Spirits,
Wine and Tobacco. Mayor Reinersman stated he swore in two new police officers
today and hopes to get them into the Academy in September. He stated there will
be a special meeting on August 22, 2022 for a first reading of the tax rate and
second reading will be done on the regular meeting on September 12, 2022.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:33 p.m.
_____________________________________
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
August 22, 2022
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 22, 2022
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
22, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer and Chris Vogelpohl. Council Members Engelman and Waite
were absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk
Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin, Chief Anthony Lucas and Captain Russ Wood.
Police Recognition – Detective Strine
Mayor Reinersman and Chief Lucas presented a plaque of recognition to Detective
Adam Strine.
Swearing In of Officer O’Brien
Mayor Reinersman swore in Officer Cole O’Brien as a new officer with the City
of Independence.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting 2022-2023 Tax Rates – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed resolution which adopts the tax rates for
the fiscal year of July 1,2022 through June 30, 2023. He stated the current
rates are $.244 per $100 for the real estate tax and $.595 per $100 for
personal property taxes. Mayor Reinersman stated he’s proposing a rate decrease
to $.22 per $100 for real estate and $.534 per $100 for personal property.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Municipal Order No. 2022-MO-01 – ARPA Premium Pay
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2022-MO-01 which will provide
premium pay of $2.00 per hour for full-time employees that worked for the city
between April 1, 2020 through December 30, 2021. He stated the pay will come
out of the Local Fiscal Recovery Funds (ARPA) funds the city received, which
was in excess of the $7,300,000. Mayor Reinersman stated the premium pay is for
any full- time employees that worked in the office and/or the field. He stated
in order for employees to receive the premium pay, they must be employed full
time with the City of Independence on December 1, 2022.
Attorney Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2022-MO-01.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2022-MO-01
which provides premium pay to city employees. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to approve. Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Roll was called and
motion carried with a vote of 4- 0.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-08 – Amended Employee Pay Classification for 2022-2023 –
2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-08 which amends Ordinance No.
2022-O-07 by updating the pay classification plan for city employees. Attorney
Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2022-O-08 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O- 08 which
amends the previously adopted pay classification plan. Council Member Vogelpohl
made a motion to approve. Council Member Brinker made a second. Roll was called
and motion carried with a vote of 4-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he wanted to provide the updated 5-year street plan. He
stated the plan is to bump up the streets of Centennial, Declaration and
Delaware Crossing and lumping some projects together to get better pricing on
bigger jobs.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated he wanted to express his thanks for our Public Services
crew for helping out in the floods in Eastern Kentucky. He stated the PDS
Director has reached out to him and asked the city to consider staying with the
Joint Kenton County Board of Adjustments, rather than putting together our own
Board of Adjustments and states they are working on some changes to the current
board.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Shafer to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:33 p.m.
_____________________________________
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
September 12, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 12, 2022
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
12, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Council Member Engelman
was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin, Chief Lucas and Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the August 1, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
August 1, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on August 1, 2022. Council Member Waite made a
motion to approve the meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on August 1,
2022. Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Approval of the August 22, 2022 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the special meeting held on
August 22, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the special meeting held on August 22, 2022. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to approve the meeting minutes for the special meeting held on August
22, 2022. Council Member Brinker made a second. Motion carried with all ayes,
5-0.
Police Recognition – Sergeant Daniel Potts and Sergeant Travis Hager
Chief Lucas stated the Independence Police Department has been accredited for
over 24 years, since 1999. He stated Sergeant Potts and Sergeant Hager to
manage the accreditation renewal process. Chief Lucas stated the department
continues to obtain the accreditation from the Kentucky Association of Chiefs
of Police and thanks the hard work of Sergeant Potts, Sergeant Hager and the
entire department.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-09 – Updating Hogrefe Road Speed Limit – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-09 which amends the speed limit
beginning at 732 Hogrefe Road westward to the end of Hogrefe Road from 35 mph
to 20 mph. Chief Lucas stated the new signs will be put up in a few days.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2022-O-09 a second reading
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O- 09 which
amends the speed limit on Hogrefe Road. Council Member Waite made a motion to
approve Ordinance No. 2022-O-09, Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Motion
carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2022-O-10 – Adopting 2022-2023 Tax Rates – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2022-O-10 which adopts the tax rates
for the fiscal year of July 1,2022 through June 30, 2023. He stated last year’s
rates were $.244 per $100 for the real estate tax and $.595 per $100 for
personal property taxes. Mayor Reinersman stated this is the second year in a
row that the taxes are decreasing. He stated the proposed rate is $.22 per $100
for real estate and $.534 per $100 for personal property. Attorney Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2022-O-10 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O- 10 which
adopts the tax rates for the fiscal year from July 1, 2022 through June 30,
2023. Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2022-O-10,
Council Member Brinker made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2022-R-13 – Final Development Plan for Beechgrove
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-13 which approves the final
development plan for Beechgrove. Mr. Moriconi stated this development goes back
to 1971 and the plan has less density than what is required of the zone. He
stated it should have site elevation and layout for the plan for 35 town homes
which will be on the corner of Wildwood and Beechgrove. Mr. Moriconi stated
Planning and Development Services (PDS) gave a favorable recommendation on the
proposed Stage II development plan with 35 units of attached residential town
homes including a new street, sidewalk and parking on 3.5 acres. Attorney
Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-13.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022- R-13 which
approves the final development plan for Beechgrove. Council Member Waite made a
motion to approve. Council Member Shafer made a second. Roll was called and
motion carried with a vote of 4- 0. Council Member Franzen recused herself.
Bid Award – Cody Road Culvert
Mayor Reinersman stated the culvert pipe under the Cody Road bridge and
municipal road aid will help fund. Mr. Moriconi stated a new culvert should
reduce flooding by 50%. He stated the engineer’s estimate was $246,040 and
three bids were received. Mr. Moriconi stated engineer recommends the Ford
Development Corporation with the lowest bid with $324,195 and added that the
pipe will be custom ordered for the project and it will likely be completed
sometime in 2023. He stated Municipal Road Aid, Cody Road Funds and capital
monies will cover the cost of the project.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid for the Cody Road Culvert
project to Ford Development Corporation. Council Member Franzen made a motion
to award the bid to Ford Development Corporation with a second by Council
Member Brinker. Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 5-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated there are currently 24 homes in foreclosure and 1 of
those was initiated by the city due to code enforcement and should be going up
for sale in early 2023.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated Memorial Park is getting a lot of use with the
expansion of basketball courts, addition of pickleball courts and new shelter
and restrooms are underway. He stated the terracing of the hillside at the
amphitheater is delayed but hoping to obtain bids in November and hope to
complete project by next summer but it’s not looking good.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:44 p.m.
_____________________________________
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
October 24, 2022
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 24, 2022
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
24, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney
Jack Gatlin, Chief Anthony Lucas and Captain Russ Wood.
Award Bid – Memorial Park Amphitheater Terracing
Mayor Reinersman stated there was only one bid for terracing of the
amphitheater. He stated the engineer’s estimate was $700,000 and the bid
received from Beaumont Building Group was $1,280,082. Mayor Reinersman stated
this is not a realistic bid and recommends that council rejects it. Council
Member Brinker stated he would like to review the electrical part of the
project before it goes out to bid again.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to reject the bid to terrace the
amphitheater from Beaumont Building Group. Council Member Engelman made a
second. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion Carried 6-0,
Proclamation – Extra Mile Day
Mayor Reinersman presented the Extra Mile Proclamation and encourages citizens
to go the extra mile.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin introduced an office associate Josh Panter, whom is awaiting
his bar rest results.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated he had nothing to report.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Vogelpohl to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 7:17 p.m.
_____________________________________
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
November 14, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of November 14, 2022
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
14, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney
Jack Gatlin, Chief Lucas and Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the September 12, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
September 12, 2022. Council Member Shafer stated he mentioned a correction to
the minutes to the clerk in regards to meeting attendance.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on September 12, 2022, with the mentioned
correction per Council Member Shafer. Council Member Waite made a motion to
approve and Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with all ayes,
6-0.
Approval of the October 24, 2022 Special Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the special meeting held on
October 24, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the special meeting held on October 24, 2022. Council Member Franzen made
a motion to approve the meeting minutes for the special meeting held on October
24, 2022. Council Member Engelman made a second. Motion carried with all ayes,
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance –– Golf Carts - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which regulates the use of golf
carts on certain roads within the city. He stated there are subdivisions in the
city where unlicensed teenagers are driving golf carts and the Police
Department is receiving complaints. Chief Lucas stated the Police Department is
looking for something to help officers’ ability to enforce penalties for repeat
offenders and help keep city streets safe. Council Member Brinker stated golf
cart insurance is less than $100 a year and questioned the $75 fee associated
with the permit. Chief Lucas explained the fee would cover the administrative
costs as well as the inspection, certificate, sticker and permit.
Council Member Vogelpohl questioned the inspection part of the process.
Attorney Gatlin referenced the KRS, which was implemented in 2020, in regards
to the requirements for a vehicle to be street legal. After some discussion,
Council agreed they like the idea of the ordinance but not in favor of the $75
fee and suggested $15 instead.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2022-R-14 – Text Amendment for Commercial Zone(s)
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2022-R-14 which is for a text
amendment to allow permitted coin-operated laundries and drycleaners in the
commercial zones of RC (Rural Commercial), NC (Neighborhood Commercial) and CC
(Community Commercial) zones. There was some discussion amongst Council and
they agreed they would just like to apply the text amendment to the CC zone.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2022-R-14.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2022-R-14 which
allows adding coin- permitted laundry as a permitted use only to the CC zone.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve. Council Member Waite made a
second. Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2022-EO-05 – Re-appointment to TBNK Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2022-EO-05 which re-appoints Tom
Brinker to the TBNK Board for the term of January 1, 2023 through December 31,
2024.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated that Josh with PDS is doing a great job with collection
on repeat offenders with code enforcement issues and will have more to report
next month.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the budget will be amended in December due to ARPA fund
allocation. He stated Hunters Green and Flintlock Court streets need redone.
Mr. Moriconi stated the project will be split into two projects; both projects
would be $720,000 each, totaling $1,400,000. He stated this project would be
completed using ARPA funds and will go to bid. Mr. Moriconi stated the new
pickleball courts have lighting and the park hours will need to be adjusted so
the park doesn’t close at dusk in areas that are lit. He stated if any council
members want to be on the city float at the Christmas Walk parade, to let him
know.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the annual Christmas Walk will be on December 3rd
kicking off at 1:00 with the Santa 5k and craft show on courthouse lawn. He
stated the lighted parade starts at 5:00 and Santa at the city building
beginning at 6:00. He congratulated council members before being re-elected and
expressed his sadness for the departure of Council Member Engelman. Mayor
Reinersman stated another engineering firm is going to take a look at the bid
packet for terracing of the Amphitheater project and see what they think could
be tweaked to help bring cost down.
Council Member Vogelpohl stated the city has started seeing panhandlers in the
city in various grocery store parking lots. Attorney Gatlin stated the city
would need to be careful and he would email council a couple sample ordinances
that other cities have adopted. Council Member Vogelpohl also stated he would
like to review and update the parking time limits for trailers and campers.
Mayor Reinersman stated the code enforcement complaints for the past year will
be ran and shared with council so they can review and see if there is a pattern
in the complaints.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Vogelpohl to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:11 p.m.
 
                              _____________________________________
                              Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
December 5, 2022
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 5, 2022
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
5, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Amy
Engelman, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney
Jack Gatlin and Chief Lucas.
Swearing in of Council Members and Mayor
Judge Susanne Cetrulo swore in the Council Members elect Tom Brinker, Dave
Shafer, Carol Franzen, Chris Vogelpohl, Greg Waite and Greg Steffen as well as
Mayor Christopher Reinersman.
Recognitions
Mayor Reinersman recognized Independence resident Maddie Strong, who is the
2022 KHSAA Class AA girls cross country state champion. He presented Ms. Strong
with a sign which will be placed near her home.
Officer Kruetzjans presented a certificate of appreciation to Molly Hancock for
her efforts in assisting with catching a thief in her neighborhood.
Mayor Reinersman presented a plaque to A.J. Kenner for his promotion to
Detective.
Approval of the November 14, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
November 14, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on November 14, 2022. Council Member Shafer made
a motion to approve and Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried
with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance –– Golf Carts -1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented the updated proposed ordinance which regulates the
use of golf carts on certain roads within the city. Attorney Gatlin gave the
proposed ordinance a first reading.
Attorney Gatlin stated there has been some discussion on the inspection process
and new verbiage will have the Kenton County Sheriff’s office do the
inspections.
Proposed Ordinance –– Amended 2022-2023 Budget -1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the 2022-2023
Budget. He stated the lines highlighted in yellow are items that are changing.
Mayor Reinersman mentioned some items that changed: increase in revenue for
property taxes, July 4th festival, increase in costs for adding a second SRO
(School Resource Officer) at Summit View Academy, new IT provider, removed
contractor fees for Finance Director due to retirement and hiring a replacement
as an employee, salary adjustments for police and public services, completion
of new pickleball courts, shelter and restrooms in Memorial Park, new vehicles
for the Building Inspector and Public Services Director and updating streets in
the Hunters Green subdivision.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Trailer, Boat/RV Storage Discussion
Council Member Vogelpohl stated he has been approached by several residents in
regards to reviewing the current ordinance in regards to boat, RV and trailer
storage. He stated he would like to allow empty trailer parking in resident’s
driveways as well as camper parking extended from 3 to 5 business days. There
was some discussion about different scenarios and what was covered regarding
the zoning in Z21.
Police Chief Lucas stated any trailers parked on the street are addressed by
the police, if they are parked in the driveway, that is a code enforcement
issue. There was some discussion from council regarding low profile trailers
and the importance of defining exactly what that is.
Al Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence, KY, stated he’s on the NKY Code
Enforcement Board and several cities have received several appeals in regards
to complaints about trailer regulations and violations.
John Huffman, owner of Beechgrove Self Storage, asked what zone a trailer could
be parked in and/or stored. Attorney Gatlin stated the information would need
to be checked against the new Z21 Plan as the discussion was just in regards to
residential zones.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way – she questioned enforcement and stated the city’s
code enforcement officer wasn’t able to go on someone’s property to address the
trailer parked in the driveway.
Attorney Gatlin stated he would check what’s included in Z21 in regards to
these parking restrictions in regards to zoning for future discussions.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated this year’s Christmas Walk was a big success and thanks to
all the volunteers and staff that helped make it happen.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated it was another amazing Christmas Walk and expressed his
appreciation to Greg Waite, city staff, volunteers, Independence Business
Association and local businesses and that everyone’s efforts helped make this
event happen and successful. He stated the city is at 74 new homes for the year
in the city and continuing to grow. Mayor Reinersman stated the Police
Department is at full staff and there will be another graduation for new
officers later this week.
Council Member Franzen thanked Council Member Engelman for her service on
council for the past six years and wished her well. Mayor Reinersman agreed and
thanked her for her service.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Engelman
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:28 p.m.
 
                              _____________________________________
                              Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
2023 Minutes
January 9, 2023
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 9, 2023
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
9, 2023at 7:00 p.m. in at the Kenton County Courthouse, 5272 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor
Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer,
Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin, Chief
Anthony Lucas and Captain Russ Wood.
Key to the City – Jim Brewer
Mayor Reinersman presented a Key to the City plaque to resident Jim Brewer for
his many years of service on the Kenton County Joint Board of Adjustments as a
representative for Independence.
Children’s Home of Northern Kentucky
Rick Wurth, CEO of the Children’s Home of Northern Kentucky, addressed council
to request financial assistance from the city. Mr. Wurth stated several other
cities have donated up to $100,000 from their ARPA funds to invest in the
growth of the Children’s Home of Northern Kentucky. He stated they are working
on a 4.5 million dollar expansion project and could use council’s help to help
bridge the gap between children and mental health issues.
Council Member Franzen stated her recommendation for a $150,000 donation to the
Children’s Home of Northern Kentucky. Mr. Gatlin stated with this being a
special meeting, council is not able to create new business and can prepare a
resolution authorizing the donation at the February meeting.
Approval of the December 5, 2022 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the regular council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
December 5, 2022.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on December 5, 2022. Council Member Vogelpohl
made a motion to approve and Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion
carried with 5-0 vote; Council Member Steffen abstained.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-01 – Golf Carts – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-01 which regulates the use of
golf carts on certain roads within the city. Chief Lucas stated the golf cart
regulations require a licensed driver, owner to carry insurance and the
Sheriff’s office will inspect, prior to issuing a permit. Attorney Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2023-O-01 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-01.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve and a second by Council
Member Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried,
6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Amended 2022-2023 Budget -1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends Ordinance No.
2022-O-06 for the annual budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2022 and
ends June 30, 2023. He stated some of the changes that were made were reporting
25% of ARPA as revenue each year, implementation of the new pay program for the
police, changing Finance Director position from a contractor to an employee,
new IT security provider, new vehicles, park improvements, etc. Attorney Gatlin
gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Pay Classification – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the pay plan for
employees. He stated we will be moving the Finance Director position from a
contractor to an employee. Mayor Reinersman stated the Evidence Technician/
Custodian will now be full-time position, which was previously a part time
position. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Park Closing -1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which allows certain city parks
with lighting to be partially open after dark. He stated the amendment updates
the parks closing at dark except areas lit specifically for basketball,
pickleball and city sponsored events. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-01 – Board of Adjustments Appointment
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-01 which appoints Steven
Sorg to the Kenton County Joint Board of Adjustments for a three-year term.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-01.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and a second by Council Member
Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Executive Order No. 2023-EO-02 – OKI Board Re-Appointment
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2023-EO-02 which re-appoints
himself to the OKI Board of Directors for 2023.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he’s been meeting with Josh at PDS (Planning and
Development Services) regarding various code and lien issues and will have a
full report at the next meeting.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated City Clerk Gina Rawe was awarded as the Outstanding
Municipal Clerk of the Year of Northern Kentucky for 2022. He stated his
appreciation to staff for working together to keep the city running while
dealing with the water damage the administrative offices experienced over the
holidays. He stated Cody Bridge replacement should happen in March and the
sliding glass doors at the Senior Center are being replaced soon. Mr. Moriconi
stated the premiums for the self-insured medical plan is receiving a decrease
for the upcoming plan year and he added that the boy scouts brought a flag
disposal box to the parking lot at the city building.
Trailer, Boat/RV Storage Discussion
Mayor Reinersman stated he’s checked around with other local cities to see what
they have in regards to storage for trailers, boats, RVs, etc. He stated this
is a zoning issue and if council wishes to make changes, they would need to
pass a resolution for a text amendment. Council Member Vogelpohl stated by
giving residents up to 5 days for their campers, exclude empty flatbed trailers
and closed pop-up campers and feels it would cut down on code enforcement
complaints. Mr. Gatlin stated measurements would need to be specified as well
to make changes.
Al Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle – serves on Code Enforcement Board. Mr. Daly
stated if council is wanting to change the allowable timing for recreational
vehicles to be parked at a residence, they would have to apply for a text
amendment.
Mayor Reinersman stated we might need to have a preliminary public hearing to
let the public speak their opinion before it would go to Kenton County Planning
Commission for a public hearing. He stated Attorney Gatlin can draft something
for council to review before moving forward.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Christmas Walk went off seamlessly this year. He
stated the Kenton County payroll taxes went up substantially and could
potentially hinder local economic growth efforts.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Vogelpohl to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 8:39 p.m.
 
                              _____________________________________
                              Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
February 6, 2023
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 6, 2023
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
6, 2023 at 7:00 p.m. at the Kenton County Courthouse, 5272 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor
Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer,
Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin, Chief
Anthony Lucas and Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the January 9, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
January 9, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the special meeting held on January 9, 2023. Council Member Shafer made a
motion to approve and Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes.
Presentation of Audit – VonLehman
Kristin Leadingham, Senior Manager with VonLehman, presented the audit for the
fiscal year ending on June 30, 2022. She stated they did not have to make any
modifications to the audit report and the extra cash in the budget is from the
ARPA monies received and not yet allocated. Mrs. Leadingham stated the decrease
in property taxes collected was due to the one-time COVID discount in 2021 and
there were no deficiencies with internal controls.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to accept the audit. Council Member
Franzen made a motion to accept and Council Member Waite made a second. Roll
was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carries, 6-0.
Mayor Reinersman presented a plaque to Terri Franklin who will be retiring in
late February as the city’s Finance Director after twenty years of service.
Resolution No. 2023-R-01 – Donation to Children’s Home of Northern Kentucky
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-01 which authorizes a one-time
donation of $150,000 to the Children’s Home of Northern Kentucky. Rick Wurth,
CEO with Children’s Home of NKY, thanked council for their generosity to help
with mental health care in Northern Kentucky.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2023-R-01.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-01.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and a second by Council Member
Vogelpohl. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-02 – Pay Classification – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-02 which amends the pay plan
for employees. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-02 second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-02.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve and Council Member Waite made
a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-03 – Amended 2022-2023 Budget -2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-03 which amends Ordinance No.
2022-O-06 for the annual budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2022 and
ending June 30, 2023.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-03 second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-03.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Shafer made
a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-04 – Park Closing -2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-04 which allows certain city
parks with lighting to be partially open after dark. Council Member Franzen
asked if this was allowing parks to be open 24 hours. Chief Lucas stated the
police have spoken to the neighbors on Peach Drive and will handle any
complaints that may come in regarding people using the parks after dark and let
council know if it becomes an issue.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-04 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-03.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve and Council Member Brinker made
a second. Roll was called and motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2023-R-02 – Text Amendment for Parking and Utility Trailers
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-02 which sponsors a text
amendment to article 10.13 parking and loading standards. Council Member
Franzen stated the history of the implementation of these regulations which
were decided by committees that included residents both in favor of as well as
opposed of campers and boats being parked in driveways.
Council Member Vogelpohl stated he was contacted by a resident regarding
parking limitations regarding trailers and campers. He stated code enforcement
is taken up by quite a bit of complaints regarding utility trailers and campers
parked beyond the 72-hour period. Council Member Vogelpohl stated his proposal
would be to eliminate violations of empty utility trailers from being parked in
driveways. He stated wants to hear from residents on what they want and hopes
we can find a compromise for everyone. Council Member Brinker questioned the
code in regards to lots that are larger than an acre.
Mayor Reinersman stated code enforcement violations are generated by anonymous
complaints. Council Member Shafer questioned what the complaints were for and
Council Member Vogelpohl stated mainly for items parked in driveways longer
than the 72-hour time limit.
Scott Paul, 4987 Pritchard Lane, Independence, KY- Mr. Paul mentioned the
rising cost of storage and would like to focus on the definition of blight.
Amanda Kremer, 2158 Stoneharbor Lane, Independence, KY – Ms. Kremer stated she
didn’t see anything about travel trailers that were 17-30 feet long or anything
about boats in the proposed changes. She also suggested extending the 72-hour
(3 days) time limit to 5 days or longer.
Al Daly, 10330 Limerick Circle, Independence, KY- Mr. Daly stated he does not
like the proposed changes as a resident. He stated as a code enforcement board
member, pavement is defined as asphalt or blacktop.
Dan Burgey, 3164 Tennyson Place, Independence, KY – Mr. Burgey stated if the
original ordinance that was passed in 2001 is loosened up, there will likely be
some confusion. He asked who to reach out to in regards to parking issues on
the street. Mayor Reinersman instructed him to contact Kenton County Dispatch.
Mike Leming, 11579 Tremont Court, Independence, KY – Mr. Leming stated he would
like to see the policy go away entirely as long as the item is operable. He
stated it costs $1800-$2500 a year to store a boat.
Brian Girvin, 11582 Tremont Court, Independence, KY - Mr. Girvin stated it is
expensive to get a pad poured on the side or behind his house.
Annette Rader, 10468 Canberra Drive, Independence, KY – Mrs. Rader stated they
moved here from Erlanger 6 months ago and wanted clarification on the
restrictions of having campers. She stated she believes that 72 hours is not
enough time to prep and unload when using a travel trailer.
Marge Cook, 96 Carrie Way, Independence, KY – Ms. Cook questioned how someone
can tell if something is operable or not if you aren’t allowed on the person’s
property.
John Huffman, 4290 Richardson Road, Independence, KY – Mr. Huffman questioned
if any final decisions were being made at the meeting. Mayor Reinersman stated
a resolution has been proposed and if council decides to pass, it would go to
the Kenton County Planning Commission for recommendations to council.
Fred Rombold, 11547 Jamestown Lane, Independence, KY – Mr. Rombold stated he
has a pop-up camper and is able to park it behind his house. He doesn’t think
72 hours is enough time for having a camper in your driveway for those that
aren’t able to park it behind their house.
John Rellahan, 1789 Freedom Trail, Independence, KY– Mr. Rellahan stated that
72 hours is not enough time to keep in his driveway.
Chris Baldwin, 22 Peach Drive, Independence, KY – Mr. Baldwin stated by taking
complaints anonymously, they can be made by someone that doesn’t even live in
the city.
Scott Sizemore, 5113 Madison Pike, Independence, KY – Mr. Sizemore stated the
definition of sizes of trailer listed is vague. He stated the cost of storage
is pricey.
Mayor Reinersman stated if council wants to update the zoning code, he would
like to put together specific changes they are proposing.
Council Member Franzen stated residents should be able to park their stuff on
their property but if there aren’t any rules, people abuse it and store their
unsightly stuff on their property. Council discussed and agreed that a
committee would be beneficial to move forward with the issue to propose
updates.
Council Member Waite made a motion for a brief recess at 8:40 p.m. Council
Member Franzen made a second. Motion passed with all ayes, 6-0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to go back into session at 8:48 p.m.
Council Member Waite made a second. Motion passed with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2023-R-03 – Opposition of Senate Bill 50 and House Bill 50
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-03 which opposes the passage
of Senate Bill 50 and House Bill 50, relating to partisan local elections.
Council Member Waite stated this was brought up a few weeks ago at the KLC City
Officials Academy and no one seemed to be in favor of either bill.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2023-R-03.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-03.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and a second by Council Member
Waite. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2023-R-04 – Regional Northern Kentucky Ethics Authority
Appointments
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-04 which accepts the re-
appointments of Marcus Carey, Darryl Cummins, Robert Sanders, Tom Quirk, Bryce
C. Rhoades and Jack Westerwood and the appointment of James Dady as members of
the Northern Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority Enforcement Committee for a
two-year term commencing February 1, 2023 and expiring on January 31, 2025.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2023-R-04.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-04.
Council Member Steffen made a motion to approve and a second by Council Member
Franzen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Coin Laundry Text Amendment – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the Independence
zoning ordinance by adding a definition for coin-operated laundries and dry
cleaners as a permitted use within the community commercial (CC) zone. He
stated the Kenton County Planning Commission held a public hearing on January
5, 2023 and gave a favorable recommendation for the text amendment.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Downs of Nicholson – Updated Concept Plan – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends Ordinance No.
2021-O-09, amending the concept development plan for the Downs of Nicholson
development on the northeast corner of Taylor Mill Road (KY 16) and Madison
Pike (KY 17). He stated the changes in the updated plan include combining the
microbrewery and restaurant into one building as well as there being more grass
and a few less patio homes.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading. He stated the
Kenton County Planning Commission had a public hearing and gave a favorable
recommendation of the proposed plan on December 1, 2022. Mr. Gatlin stated the
90 days from action would be March 1, 2023 and council would not have enough
time to do a first and second reading prior to the 90 days. He stated if they
were not in favor, council would need to have a special meeting prior to March
1, 2023 to oppose the proposed changes.
Council Member Steffen stated he thinks the area should be more of a commercial
development instead of more apartments.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to accept the recommendation of the
Kenton County Planning Commission to approve the updated concept plan. Council
Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and votes were 5-1. Council Member
Steffen opposed.
Attorney Gatlin stated the second reading of the ordinance to approve the plan
will still occur at the next meeting on March 6, 2023.
Executive Order No. 2023-EO-03 – PDS Appointment
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2023-EO-03 which re-appoints
himself as the primary representative and Chris Vogelpohl as the alternate
representative to the Planning and Development Services Council for the 2023
year.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated there are 30 active foreclosures in the city and four of
those have been initiated by the city due to code enforcement issues.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the city building repairs are beginning this week with
drywall. He stated the bid received to terrace the amphitheater last year came
back at $1.2 million, which was over the budgeted amount. Mr. Moriconi stated
he had another engineering firm is take a look at the plan and scaled it back
and the engineer’s estimate for the updated plan is $600,000. He stated this
will go out to bid in the next couple of months and bids should be presented to
council by May or June.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Board of Adjustments has voted to change
alternating locations between the Independence courthouse as well as meeting in
Covington. He stated he is hosting the mayor’s group meeting later in the month
and voting challenges will be discussed with other mayors and the county. Mayor
Reinersman stated Kenton County occupational and payroll taxes have recently
increased.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:31 p.m.
 
                              _____________________________________
                              Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
March 6, 2023
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 6, 2023
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 6,
2023 at 7:00 p.m. at the Kenton County Courthouse, 5272 Madison Pike,
Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor
Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was called and the following
Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer,
Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Anthony Lucas.
Approval of the February 6, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
February 6, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the special meeting held on February 6, 2023. Council Member Waite made a
motion to approve and Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-05 – Coin Laundry Text Amendment – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-05 which amends the
Independence zoning ordinance by adding a definition for coin-operated
laundries and dry cleaners as a permitted use within the community commercial
(CC) zone.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-05 a second reading. He stated the
Kenton County Planning Commission held a public hearing on January 5, 2023 and
gave a favorable recommendation for the text amendment.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-05.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve and Council Member Steffen made a
second. Roll was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-06 – Downs of Nicholson – Updated Concept Plan – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-06 which amends Ordinance No.
2021-O-09, amending the concept development plan for the Downs of Nicholson
development on the northeast corner of Taylor Mill Road (KY 16) and Madison
Pike (KY 17).
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-06 a second reading
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-06.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl
made a second. Roll was called and vote was 5- 1 with Council Member Steffen in
opposition of the plan. Motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting NKREA Board – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the code of
ordinances related to Chapter 38 Code of Ethics and adopting the Northern
Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority Interlocal Agreement.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated this
should have been adopted about eight years ago when the city joined the NKY
Regional Ethics Authority and stated this is a housekeeping issue. He stated
the strikethrough portions are to be deleted and underlined portions are to be
added.
Resolution No. 2023-R-05 – Support of HB 343 – Occupational License Recognition
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-05 which supports House Bill
343 relating to universal recognition of occupational licenses and government
certifications. He stated the passage of the Universal Recognition of
Occupational Licenses Act will attract out of state professionals to relocate
to our city and region.
Council Member Franzen stated HB 343 was presented to her that certain
businesses doing work in adjoining states, would not be required to retest in
additional state to be professionally licensed to work outside of their home
state.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2023-R-05.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-05.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Brinker made
a second. Roll was called and passed 4-2. Council Members Waite and Steffen
were opposed to resolution.
Award Bid – Street Resurfacing Program for 2023
Mayor Reinersman presented the three bids that were received for the 2023
Street Resurfacing Program. He stated the engineer’s estimate was $1,162,875
and Riegler Blacktop, Inc. was the low bid with $1,194,978. Mr. Moriconi stated
the recommendation is to award the bid to Riegler Blacktop, Inc.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid for the 2023 Street
Resurfacing Program to Riegler Blacktop, Inc. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to award the bid to Riegler and Council Member Brinker made a second.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated they are finishing up the painting and starting the carpet
this week and hoping staff will be moved back in the administrative offices in
the next couple of weeks.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated House Bill 57 moved to committee. He stated there was
some discussion on potential proposed legislation that could require city
governments to have the county’s approval for annexations. Mayor Reinersman
stated the Easter Egg Hunt will be on April 1st at Memorial Park and there will
be a separate egg hunt at 10:00 on the basketball courts for kids with special
needs.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:32 p.m.
 
                              _____________________________________
                              Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
April 3, 2023
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 3,
2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer and Greg Steffen. Council Members Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite were
absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Chief Anthony Lucas.
Approval of the March 6, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the special council meeting minutes for the meeting held on
March 6, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the special meeting held on March 6, 2023. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to approve and Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes, 4-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-07 - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-07 which amends the code of
ordinances related to Chapter 38 Code of Ethics and adopting the Northern
Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority Interlocal Agreement. He stated the
agreement used only he/his pronouns and there weren’t any female references in
document and suggested to table and update for second reading in May to adopt
correct language.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to table Ordinance No. 2023- O-07 to
update language regarding pronouns in agreement. Council Member Shafer made a
second. There were all ayes on the vote, motion carried, 4-0.
Proposed ordinance – Amending Building Permit Fees
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the schedule of
fees for building permits. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Bid Award – Falcon Ridge Drive Reconstruction
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids received for the Falcon Ridge Drive
Reconstruction Project.
He stated the engineer’s estimate was $541,962.50 and there were four bids
received and the low bid was Humphrey Concrete at $567,273.75.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid for the Falcon Ridge
Drive Reconstruction Project to Humphrey Concrete. Council Member Steffen made
a motion to award the bid to Humphrey Concrete with a second by Council Member
Brinker. Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 4-0.
Bid Award – Lawn Maintenance Program
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids received for the Lawn Maintenance Program.
He stated there were 2 bids received for the lawn and park maintenance for the
city: Malco Services and T&L Lawn Care. Mayor Reinersman stated Malco Services
continues to do great work for the city for a competitive price and recommended
the bid be awarded to Malco Services as they continue to offer the lowest
prices.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid for the Lawn Maintenance
Program to Malco Services. Council Member Franzen made a motion to award the
bid to Malco Services with a second by Council Member Brinker. Roll was called
and motion carried with a vote of 4-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi thanked Council Member Franzen for treating the city staff to
lunch the previous week.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation for city staff for being on site
during the holidays during the pipe burst and working with contractors to get
everything put back together. He stated Cody Road is now back open with the new
culvert installed. Mayor Reinersman stated there was a great turnout at this
year’s Egg Hunt and gave a huge thanks to Hickory Grove for volunteering and
helping make this another great event. He stated there will be a K-
9 fundraising car show on May 20th at Summit View Academy. Mayor Reinersman
expressed his gratitude to Sara Gadzala for helping with our newsletter. He
stated several acres on Stephens Road have been sold and there is some concern
regarding traffic if a development is put in off of Stephens. Mayor Reinersman
stated there was a hearing during the most recent session in Frankfort
regarding restricting annexations and requiring cities to notify the county
prior to annexing property.
Council Member Brinker asked about progress of amphitheater project. Mr.
Moriconi stated the bids should be received and available to share with council
at the June council meeting.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Shafer to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:50 p.m.
 
_____________________________________
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
May 1, 2023
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 1,
2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Brandon Voelker,
Captain Russ Wood, Captain Brian Ferayorni, Finance Director Rachyl Gibson and
Building Inspector Mike Carpenter.
Approval of the April 3, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
April 3, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on April 3, 2023. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to approve and Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes, 6-0.
Proclamation
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to recognize May 12, 2023 as child
care provider appreciation day in Independence.
Holly Hill Presentation
James Sherry, CEO of Holly Hill, presented Holly Hill’s strategic plan of
Healthy Minds, Healthy Communities. He stated the vision is a future where all
mental and behavioral health needs are met in the communities they serve. Mr.
Sherry stated they are building a coalition of support in hopes of growing
their residential program 200-300%. He stated they are requesting support from
Independence which would help add staffing and support more local kids. Mr.
Sherry stated Holly Hill offers residential care focused on girls ages 11-17
years old that are in the state’s custody and treat the most traumatized kids
which have include victims of abuse, pregnant and parenting teens. He stated
they also offer targeted case management as well as outpatient behavioral and
mental health care.
Council Member Waite made a motion to donate $100,000 to Holly Hill. Council
Member Brinker with a second. Roll was called and votes were unanimous. Motion
carried 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-07 - Amending Building Permit Fees - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-07 which amends the fee
schedule for city building permits.
Brian Miller, Vice President, Building Industry Association of Northern
Kentucky addressed council in regards to the proposed increase in building
permit fees. He stated the increases amount to an escalation of at least 20%
above the current fee structure. Mr. Miller stated he is asking for a pass to
not increase fees at this time. Council had questions for Building Inspector
Mike Carpenter, regarding the increased fee amounts. Mr. Carpenter stated the
city hasn’t raised fees since 2015 although the costs to the city have
increased. He stated the city has to pay a backup inspector when he takes
vacation time and is currently in the process of training an in-house backup
within the public works department. Mr. Carpenter stated with the proposed
increase in fees, the city will still be 22% lower than neighboring cities and
counties.
There was some discussion regarding some of the fee change amounts such as
commercial building fees for new/addition to structure and tenant finish/
alteration as well as the HVAC permit fee chart. Noted changes under commercial
building permit fees new addition to structure should be $.06/sf to $.072/sf
for 5-30k square feet and $.04/sf to $.048/sf for 30k+ square feet. He stated
the last line of the commercial HVAC permit fees is incorrect as well, should
be $1,600,001 instead of 1,6001. Mayor Reinersman stated the building inspector
is a necessity and we run very lean and we haven’t raised fees in over eight
years.
Attorney Voelker gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-07 a second reading including noted
typos to be corrected in executed ordinance.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-07 to
update the building permit fees with the mentioned corrections. Council Member
Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Steffen made a second.
Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting NKREA Board – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the code of
ordinances related to chapter 38 code of ethics and adopting the Northern
Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority Interlocal Agreement. Attorney Voelker gave
the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Amended Budget for 2022-2023 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the 2022-2023
budget.
Attorney Voelker gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Franzen made a motion for a short recess. Council Member Waite
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes and meeting went into a recess at
8:10 p.m.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to return to active session. Council
Member Waite made a second. Motion carried with all ayes and meeting returned
into active session at 8:13 p.m.
Mayor’s Budget Message regarding the 2023-2024 Proposed Budget
Mayor Reinersman stated the proposed 2023-2024 budget is not based on an
increase in property taxes. He stated the changes that impact budget are police
education incentives, development of Park 536, Downs of Nicholson development,
amphitheater terracing, ARPA funds and new employees. Mayor Reinersman stated
School Resource Officers, five new police cruisers, new public works pickup,
$2,000,000 investment in street repairs, amphitheater terracing and pass
through costs for building insurance claim from water damage are some of the
expenses in this new budget. He stated several recent retirements have created
new opportunities adding a new full time Program Coordinator as well as a new
Finance Director to city staff.
Proposed Ordinance – Proposed Budget for 2023-2024 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which proposes the budget for
the 2023-2024 fiscal year. Attorney Voelker gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Employee Pay Classification – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which enacts personnel and pay
classification plan pursuant to KRS 83A.070(3). Council Member Steffen stated
some position minimums seem low. Mr. Moriconi stated a thorough review was done
a couple years ago using the salary surveys from NKADD (Northern Kentucky Area
Development District) and KLC (Kentucky League of Cities) but he would compare
again to make sure we are still in line. Attorney Voelker gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2023-R-06 – City Road List
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-06 which agrees what roads are
a part of the city road system as well as roads that are not part of the city
road system. Mr. Moriconi stated the state is auditing cities road system lists
in regards to Municipal Road Aid and a list review was requested by the NKADD.
Mr. Moriconi stated the roads marked private in Appendix A should be removed,
such as Saturn Drive, Upton Drive, Jupiter Drive, Elmwood Court, Apartment
House Drive and Coppage Court, Community Center Drive and Neptune Drive.
Attorney Voelker read Resolution No. 2023-R-06.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-06 with
the change of mentioned updates to Appendix A. Council Member Vogelpohl made a
motion with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and motion
carried with a vote of 6-0.
Award Bid – Hunters Green Reconstruction
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids for the Hunters Green Reconstruction Phase
1. He stated the engineer’s estimate for concrete was $606,260 and asphalt was
$571,010. Mayor Reinersman stated Humphrey Concrete had the low bid at $635,310
for concrete and Riegler Blacktop had the low bid for asphalt at $584,978.75.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid for the Hunters Green
Reconstruction Phase 1 to Riegler Blacktop to do asphalt for $584,978.75.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to award the bid to Riegler Blacktop and a
second by Council Member Shafer. Roll was called and votes were unanimous.
Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Brandon Voelker
Attorney Voelker stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated cameras are being added to several city parks to help catch
vandalism.
Executive Session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(b)
Council Member Franzen made a motion to go into executive session in accordance
with K.R.S. 61.810(b) to discuss possible property acquisition, Council Member
Waite made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0 and council went into
executive session at 8:46 p.m.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to return to regular session and Council
Member Vogelpohl made a second. Votes were all ayes and council returned to
regular session at 9:27pm.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to make an offer/negotiate to purchase the
property that was discussed in executive session.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to authorize the Mayor to make an offer on
the property that was discussed in executive session. Council Member Waite made
a second. Roll was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Shafer and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 9:28 p.m.
 
_____________________________________
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
June 5, 2023
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 5,
2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Finance Director Rachyl Gibson.
Approval of the May 1, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
May 1, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on May 1, 2023. Council Member Vogelpohl made a
motion to approve and Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes, 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-02 – Home Consortium Interlocal
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-02 which authorizes the
Mayor to enter into an interlocal consortium agreement with Bellevue, Bromley,
Covington, Dayton Erlanger, Florence and Newport.
Covington Mayor Joe Meyer presented the program to council and stated to
qualify for the program, the minimum annual income is $53,500 for an
individual, $76,400 for a family of four and maximum home price of $195,000 and
is adjusted each year by the federal government. He stated the City of
Covington will manage the compliance of the HOME Program and its annual share
of funding will be no less than it received prior to the formation of the
Consortium. Mayor Meyer stated the applicants are screened to make sure
applicants are able to afford the home and taxes and can pay all associated
costs of being a homeowner. He stated it’s a great service to provide to the
community, especially young, first-time homebuyers and doesn’t cost the city
anything.
Attorney Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-02
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-02.
Council Member Franzen made a motion with a second by Council Member Waite.
Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Resolution No. 2023-R-08 – Downs of Nicholson - Final Development Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-08 which approves a final
development plan for Phase 1 of the Downs of Nicholson to construct a brewery/
restaurant, event center, general store with fuel pumps and restaurant, a sit-
down restaurant and seven short term rental cabins including a new street,
sidewalks and parking. PDS has approved the plan in the PUD zone.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2023-R-08 stating on the staff report from
PDS, the development was approved to add the First Watch to the plan.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-08.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion with a second by Council Member Franzen.
Roll was called and votes were 5- 1 with Council Member Steffen in opposition.
Motion carried, 5-1.
Proposed Ordinance – Timber View Sidewalk Waiver – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which waives the sidewalk
requirement by the Independence Zoning Code for Phase 40 of Timber View. He
stated the terrain has unusual topographical or exceptional physical
conditions, regulation compliance could cause an unsafe situation and the
proposed modification would create a materially safer situation than complying
with the regulations. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Executive Order No. 2023-EO-04 – Senior Board Appointments
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2023-EO-04 which appoints Diana
Kloeker, Dan Courtney and Karen Henderson to the Independence Senior Board.
Resolution No. 2023-R-07 – The Reserves – Final Development Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-07 which approves the final
development plan for Phase 40 of The Reserves subdivision to construct 52 units
of attached residential units including a new street, sidewalks, parking and
provides more green space and walking trails. He stated the change is minor as
the full plan was approved for 240 units and development will consist of 186
units and meets the density requirements. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No.
2023-R-07.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-07.
Council Member Waite made a motion with a second by Council Member Franzen.
Roll was called and votes were 5-1 with Council Member Steffen in opposition.
Motion carried, 5-1.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-08 – Adopting NKREA Board – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-08 which amends the code of
ordinances related to chapter 38 code of ethics and adopting the Northern
Kentucky Regional Ethics Authority Interlocal Agreement. Attorney Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2023-O-08 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-08.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion with a second by Council Member Steffen.
Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-09 – Amended Budget for 2022-2023 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-09 which amends the 2022-2023
budget.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-09.
Council Member Waite made a motion with a second by Council Member Franzen.
Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-10– Proposed Budget for 2023-2024 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-10 which proposes the budget
for the 2023-2024 fiscal year. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-10 a
second reading.
Finance Director stated the $100,000 donation to Holly Hill and land
acquisition were the only changes made and reflect the change of the line for
$150,000 to $618,000.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-10.
Council Member Franzen made a motion with a second by Council Member Shafer.
Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-11 – Employee Pay Classification – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-11 which enacts personnel and
pay classification plan pursuant to KRS 83A.070(3). Attorney Gatlin gave
Ordinance No. 2023-O-01 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-11.
Council Member Shafer made a motion with a second by Council Member Steffen.
Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion for a short recess. Council Member Waite
made a second. Votes were all ayes and meeting went into recess at 7:50pm.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to return to regular session, Council
Member Franzen made a second. Votes were all ayes and meeting returned to
regular session at 7:54pm.
Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-03 – Personnel Policy Updates
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-03 which updates items
in personnel Policies and Procedure Manual for the City of Independence. He
stated the item that was added was a Step Increase and Education and Training
Incentives for Hazardous Police.
Chief Lucas stated the local Police Chiefs, Mayors and the county came together
to meet regarding coming up with a standardized pay structure for School
Resource Officers and that is the reason SROs (School Resource Officers) were
not included in the newly added Step Pay Plan.
Attorney Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-03.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-03.
Council Member Franzen made a motion with a second by Council Member Vogelpohl.
Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Award Bid – Amphitheater Terracing
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids for terracing of the amphitheater. He
stated the engineer’s estimate was $575,900 and the two bids received were Ford
Development for $572,180 and Beaumont Building Group. Mayor Reinersman
recommends awarding the bid to Ford Development.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid to Ford Development.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to award the bid to award to Ford
Development and a second was made by Council Member Waite. Roll was called and
votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Award Bid – Concrete
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids for concrete jobs with two bidders with
Ernst Concrete and Hometown Concrete. Mr. Moriconi stated the Public Works
Director would like to be able to use both if time gets tight and one company
is busy. Attorney Gatlin stated the city can accept both bids and Ernst would
need to be made aware with a condition in their contract that the city could
use Hometown if Ernst isn’t available in a reasonable amount of time.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to accept both concrete bids from Ernst
Concrete and Hometown Concrete. Council Member Shafer made a second. Roll was
called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Voelker stated the city currently has 34 active foreclosures and only
5 are city initiated due to code enforcement issues.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the 25th Annual Independence Celebration will include
$15 ride bracelets, Circus Mojo and roman candle show on Friday evening, June
30th. He stated on Saturday, the IBA will be hosting the Cars and Pipes show,
parade at 3pm, GenX will be playing leading up to the special fireworks
display. Mayor Reinersman stated Doghouse will be playing the first Party in
the Park on June 8th and art in the park for kids on Friday mornings throughout
the summer. He stated he would like to focus on downtown and there’s a lot of
opportunity to rebuild and revitalize the courthouse square. Mayor Reinersman
stated there will be a permanent metal building behind the courthouse which can
be used for the farmers market as well as the Christmas Walk.
Council Member Franzen stated Scott High School is building a new pool and when
it’s not swimming season, it will be used for activities within the community
such as swim lessons.
Council Member Shafer stated Captain Ferayorni K-9 fundraiser with car show –
had 106 cars registered and it raised close to $5,000. He added the most recent
Senior Citizens Police Academy had 55 graduates.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:33 p.m.
 
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
July 2023 - No Meeting
August 7, 2023
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 7,
2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Captain Russ Wood.
Approval of the June 5, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
June 5, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on June 5, 2023. Council Member Shafer made a
motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Motion carried
with all ayes, 6-0.
Swearing in of New Officer - Nathan Kling
Mayor Reinersman swore in of Officer Nathan Kling, whom comes with years of
experience with the Taylor Mill Police Department.
Williamswoods Sober Living House Discussion
Mayor Reinersman stated a letter was received from Pinnacle and the home
located at 10609 Williamswoods Drive will be utilized as a sober living house.
He stated they are protected by the ADA, and KRS 100.982-984. Mayor Reinersman
stated it is not a treatment center, it is a home for recovering addicts. He
stated there are several located throughout Northern Kentucky and the only
complaints from neighbors have been regarding multiple cars parked on the
street. Mayor Reinersman stated sober living houses are protected by the
federal government and they are not required to apply for a conditional use
permit or even notify the city. He stated the code enforcement officer believed
it was a rehab facility and that the company would have to go to the Board of
Adjustments to get a conditional use permit. Mayor Reinersman stated it later
turned out to be incorrect, it was in fact a sober living house, not a rehab
facility.
Dan Courtney, 10614 Williamswoods Drive, Independence, KY 41051 - Mr. Courtney
stated his frustration regarding the miscommunication regarding the possibility
of being able to go before the Board of Adjustments in opposition of this rehab
facility opening on his street.
Attorney Gatlin stated the federal government has determined recovering addicts
as disabled and hundreds of cities have been sued trying to fight against sober
living houses.
Doug Gunning, 10593 Williamswoods Drive, Independence, KY 41051 - Mr. Gunning
questioned why a for-profit business is allowed to run in a residential area
without any special permit.
Mike Schroer, 10637 Williamswoods Drive, Independence, KY 41051 - Mr. Schroer
stated he works for Kenton County and he has guys work with him and some of
them go to sober living houses.
Logan Wendling, 10605 Williamswoods Drive, Independence, KY 41051 - Ms.
Wendling stated she lives next door to the sober living house and has a 16-
year-old son and a 9-year-old daughter. She said her son was introduced to
drugs and alcohol at a young age and has spent thousands of dollars on
treatment and is concerned with addicts living next door to her. Ms. Wendling
stated she believes that addicts are self-induced and should not be considered
disabled.
Council Member Franzen stated her concerns as a mother with children living
next door to people to have done drugs but explained that council's hands are
tied as long as the residents of the sober living house follow the rules as
they are covered as a protected class under ADA. She stated having a sober
living house isn't a benefit to the city in any way.
Randel Hamilton, 10613 Williamswoods Drive, Independence, KY 41051 - Mr.
Hamilton stated the city stopped the jail from being built inside the city and
questioned why this can't be stopped as well. Council Member Franzen stated she
helped work on the committee and they worked with the commissioners to get the
jail moved to a better location, it wasn't up to the city to decide where it
was being built.
Connie Ehlen, 10629 Williamswoods Drive, Independence, KY 41051 - Ms. Ehlen
stated drug addicts robbed her 16 years ago. She asked how she is supposed to
feel safe and wants to know what the city is going to do about it. Mayor
Reinersman stated the police are available in case something happens.
Steve Fowler, 10601 Williamswoods Drive, Independence, KY 41051 - Mr. Fowler
stated his concern for the extra cars that will be present on the street.
Franklin Cain, 1159 Gatewood Lane, Independence, KY 41051 - Mr. Cain asked
council if the city had any say in the sober living house because it's located
close to schools.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-12-Timber View Sidewalk Waiver-2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-0-12 which waives the sidewalk
requirement by the Independence Zoning Code for Phase 40 of Timber View. He
stated the terrain has unusual topographical or exceptional physical
conditions, regulation compliance could cause an unsafe situation and the
proposed modification would create a materially safer situation than complying
with the regulations. Attorney Gatlin Ordinance No. 2023-0-12 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-0-12.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl
made a second. Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance - Employee Pay Classification - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the personnel and
pay classification plan. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance - Renewed Cable TV Franchise Agreement - 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which grants and issues a
competitive, non exclusive franchise for a combined term of 10 years with
Spectrum, Mid-America, LLC and authorizes the mayor to sign this agreement.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Brinker made a motion for a short recess, Council Member Franzen
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0. Council went into recess at
7:57 p.m.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to return to regular session, Council
Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0. Council
returned to regular session at 8:01 p.m.
Resolution No. 2023-R-09 - Richardson Road Map Amendment
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-09 which approves a map
amendment of approximately 9.37 acres at 4290 Richardson Road from General
Industrial (GI Zone) to Suburban Industrial (SI Zone). Attorney Gatlin read
Resolution No. 2023-R-09.
Resolution No. 2023-R-10-Richardson Road Text Amendment
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-10 which creates a Suburban
Industrial (SI Zone). Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2023-R-10.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-09 and
Resolution No. 2023-R- 10. Council Member Waite made a motion with a second by
Council Member Steffen. Roll was called and votes were 6-0, Motion carried.
Resolution No. 2023-R-11-Holly Hill Donation
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-11 which approves a $100,000
donation to Holly Hill Child and Family Solutions for the purpose of supporting
mental health initiatives. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2023-R-11.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-11.
Council Member Brinker made a motion with a second by Council Member Waite.
Roll was called and votes were 6-0, Motion carried.
Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-04 - Kenton County Emergency Operations Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-04 which allows Mayor
Reinersman to execute the Kenton County Emergency Operations Plan. Attorney
Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2023- MO-04.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order NO 2023-MO-04.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion with a second by Council Member Shafer.
Roll was called and motion carried with a vote of 6-0.
Award Bid-Maintenance Building
Mayor Reinersman stated two bids were received for the new maintenance building
which will be constructed on Peach Drive. Mr. Moriconi stated Woeste Builders'
bid was $115,000 and Northedge Steel's bid was $54,000 and the bids are for
different structures. He stated Northedge Steel's proposal provides a
barndominium feel and the city will take care of the grading, concrete pad and
electric for the building and will remain under the budget of $150,000.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to award the bid to Northedge Steel.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to award the bid to award to Northedge
Steel and a second was made by Council Member Steffen. Roll was called and
votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Surplus Property
Mayor Reinersman stated Public Services has a 2008 GMC 7500 dump truck, 2013
Chevrolet Silverado 2500 truck, a crack sealer, asphalt roller and a drop
hammer to declare as surplus property. He stated the items will be listed for
sale on GovDeals.com.
Council Member Waite made a motion to declare items as surplus property and a
second was made by Council Member Vogelpohl. Votes were unanimous. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Attorney Report - Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated all but 1 foreclosure in the city should be dismissed by
next month. He stated the Code Enforcement Officer Josh has been doing a great
job keeping up with violations as they review them every couple of weeks.
City Administrator's Report
Mr. Moriconi shared his appreciation to Attorney Gatlin and keeping up with
code enforcement issues. He stated the amphitheater terracing will start later
this month and a sidewalk is being added from the parking lots on either side
of the senior center. Mr. Moriconi stated the new restrooms at Sterling Staggs
Park are nearly completed.
Mayor's Report
Mayor Reinersman stated we are hoping to have a special meeting on September
18th as well as one on August 28th to have the first reading of the 2023-2024
tax rates. He stated Police Chief Anthony Lucas retired at the end of June and
Captains Jake Boyle, Brian Ferayorni and Russ Wood are in the running for the
next Independence Police Chief. Mayor Reinersman explained the selection
process which includes surveying officers regarding the qualities and
challenges for each candidate, leadership testing, a panel interview as well as
final interviews with the mayor and city administrator. He stated the
recommendation for the next Independence Police Chief will be announced at the
September 18th special council meeting.
Council Member Franzen left the meeting at 8:30pm.
Council Member Brinker asked about the occupancy status of Park 536. Mayor
Reinersman stated two buildings and landscaping are almost complete. Mr.
Moriconi stated the next phase of 536 should start in November.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Shafer to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:38 p.m.
                        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
a3dec6886f99251eafaf02093cc2f972bbe37a10/IMAGES/0-0-0-242.gif]
                        Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
a3dec6886f99251eafaf02093cc2f972bbe37a10/IMAGES/0-0-0-244.gif]
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
August 28, 2023
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
28, 2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer and Chris Vogelpohl. Council Members Steffen and Waite
were both absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City
Clerk Gina Rawe and Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Proclamation
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to Jason Dudas for his 25 years of
service with TBNK and in our community and declared August 31, 2023 as Jason
Dudas Day.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-13 – Employee Pay Classification – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-13 which amends the personnel
and pay classification plan. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-13 a
second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-13.
Council Member Franzen made a motion with a second by Council Member Shafer.
Roll was called and votes were 4-0, Motion carried.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-14 – Renewed Cable TV Franchise Agreement – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-14 which authorizes the mayor
to sign and execute a competitive, non-exclusive franchise agreement with
Spectrum Mid-America LLC. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-14 a second
reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-14.
Council Member Brinker made a motion with a second by Council Member Shafer.
Roll was called and votes were 4-0. Motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Tax Rates for 2023-2024 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts the 2023-2024 tax
rates of $.220 per $100 for real property and $.534 per $100 for personal
property. He stated the proposed rates are the same as the previous year and
not raising them. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he has nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the partial project in Hunters Green will be starting next
week. He stated there has been recent vandalism in the parks again and the
cameras are catching the offenders. Mr. Moriconi stated the amphitheater
project will be starting the week of October 16th.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the violators are being identified and prosecuted for
the vandalism in our city parks. He stated a resident reported that his yard
was tore up from a street project by Humphry’s Concrete, it was quickly
repaired the following day.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Vogelpohl
and seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:20 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
September 18, 2023
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, September
18, 2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Steffen, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe and
Attorney Jack Gatlin.
Approval of the August 7, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
August 7, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on August 7, 2023. Council Member Waite made a
motion to approve and Council Member Steffen made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes, 6-0.
Approval of the August 28, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the special meeting held on
August 28, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the special meeting held on August 28, 2023. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to approve and Council Member Waite made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-14 – Tax Rates for 2023-2024 – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-14 which adopts the 2023-2024
tax rates of $.220 per $100 for real property and $.534 per $100 for personal
property. He stated the rates are the same as the previous year. Attorney
Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-14 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-14.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve and Council Member Brinker made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6- 0.
Swearing in of School Resource Officer Scott Paul
Mayor Reinersman swore in previously retired Captain Scott Paul which has
recently returned to Independence as the School Resource Officer at Saint
Cecilia School.
Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-05 – Appointment of new Police Chief
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-05 which appoints
Captain Brian Ferayorni as the new Police Chief of the Independence Police
Department effective immediately.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-05
which appoints Captain Ferayorni as the next Police Chief immediately. Council
Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2023-MO-05 and
Council Member Franzen made a second. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Mayor Reinersman swore in Brian Ferayorni as the new Police Chief of
Independence. He presented Chief Ferayorni with his new badge and Mrs.
Ferayorni pinned on the eagles to his uniform.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin welcomed Chief Ferayorni and stated he looked forward to
working together in the future.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi congratulated Chief Ferayorni on his promotion.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the next Citizen’s Police Academy will be starting on
September 26th for 7 weeks and its very hands on and interactive.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:20p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
October 2, 2023
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 2, 2023
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
2, 2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Steffen, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney
Jack Gatlin and Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the September 18, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the special meeting held on
September 18, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the special meeting held on September 18, 2023. Council Member Steffen
made a motion to approve and Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion
carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment for 17/Harris Pike – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the zoning map for
19.93 acres at the intersection of KY 17 and Harris Pike (KY 536) from
Neighborhood Commercial (NC) and Residential Rural Estate (R-RE) to Community
Commercial (CC) and approving the submitted development plan with conditions.
He stated the development will include a grocery store and restaurant, will not
be a White Castle as they are selling the property to the developer.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated there
was a public hearing with the Kenton County Planning Commission on September 7,
2023. He stated PDS Planning Staff gave a favorable recommendation with
conditions including the installing sidewalks and compliance of drainage
systems by the Northern Kentucky Regional Storm Water Management Program Rules
and Regulations.
Resolution No. 2023-R-12 – Trailer Regulation Update
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-12 which sponsors a proposed a
text amendment regarding parking and loading standards for trailers within the
city. He stated the proposed text amendment would allow empty flatbed trailer’s
to be stored in property owner’s driveway year- round if in good working order.
Mayor Reinersman stated the amendment would also allow campers, boats and RVs
to be stored in property owner’s driveway for up to 96 consecutive hours within
a seven (7) day period.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2023-R-12 and stated the proposal is for
flatbed trailers limited to thirty (30) feet in length (tongue to bumper),
eight (8) feet in width and five (5) feet tall.
Al Daly, Limerick Circle, Independence, KY – Mr. Daly stated he would like the
text to specify when the time starts and stops on the allowed timeframe.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-12.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion with a second by Council Member Waite.
Roll was called and votes were 6-0. Motion carried.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the ash trees in median of the Hartland subdivision will
need to be removed. He stated work on the amphitheater should be starting on
October 16th and will be adding block to the restroom at Memorial Park.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman congratulated Council Member Waite for earning a Level 2 in
Excellence in City Government with Kentucky League of Cities.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:40 p.m.
   
               _____________________________________
               Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
November 13, 2023
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of November 13, 2023
City of Independence, Ky.
 Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
13, 2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Steffen, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney
Jack Gatlin and Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the October 2, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
October 2, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on October 2, 2023. Council Member Franzen made a
motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Motion carried
with all ayes, 6-0.
Police Swearing In
Mayor Reinersman stated there have been several promotions within the Police
Department. He swore in Captain Jake Boyle, as the new Assistant Chief and
Sergeants Mike Brock and Joe Moffett which have been promoted to Captains.
Mayor Reinersman also swore in rehires Officer Adam McGuire and Detective Eric
Higgins.
Audit Presentation
Kristen Leadingham with VonLehman presented the annual audit for the city for
June 30, 2022 through July 1, 2023. She stated it was a clean audit and
liability decreased $1,000,000 and $1,000,000 of ARPA monies were expended.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to accept the audit. Council Member Waite
made a motion and Council Member Franzen made a second. Roll was called and
votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-16 – Map Amendment for 17/Harris Pike – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-16 which amends the zoning map
for 19.93 acres at the intersection of KY 17 and Harris Pike (KY 536) from
Neighborhood Commercial (NC) and Residential Rural Estate (R-RE) to Community
Commercial (CC) and approving the submitted development plan with conditions.
He stated the development will include a grocery store and restaurant.
Council Member Steffen stated he is opposed to re-zoning the land to commercial
and losing potential residential housing and it goes against the 2023
comprehensive plan.
Mayor Reinersman stated it may not be the original idea or plan for that area
but major intersections are better off with commercial than residential and it
would provide viable services for the community. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance
No. 2023-O-16 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-16.
Council Member Franzen made a motion with a second by Council Member Waite.
Roll was called and votes were 5-1, Council Member Steffen was opposed. Motion
carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment for SI Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the text of the
zoning code by creating a new zone, Suburban Industrial (SI) zone. He stated
this includes adding to use table, development standards and signage.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Map Amendment for SI Zone – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the zoning map,
changing 9.3 acres at 4290 Richardson Road from General Industrial (GI) zone to
Suburban Industrial (SI) zone.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Resolution No. 2023-R-13 – NKY Police Academy
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-13 which supports the creation
of a Northern Kentucky branch of the Department of Criminal Justice Training
Police Academy. He stated the current closest training facility is in Richmond,
Kentucky. Chief Ferayorni stated new recruits wouldn’t be able to start the
process until April or May of next year due to being backed up.    
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-13.
Council Member Shafer made a motion with a second by Council Member Steffen.
Roll was called and votes were 6-0. Motion carried.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated there are currently 10 to 11 tax related foreclosures
and the city has initiated 5 or 6 foreclosures that are related to code
enforcement issues.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the city has collected 94% of the billed taxes for 2023 so
far. He stated the concrete slab has been poured for the new maintenance
building off Peach Drive. Mr. Moriconi stated the steps for terracing the
amphitheater hillside is almost completed and the project is on schedule.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the city will start accepting passport applications on
Mondays and Wednesdays beginning November 20th. He stated the city is working
to become a Heart Safe Community which includes installing AED machines in
police cruisers and training all officers and staff on how to use the machines.
Mayor Reinersman stated the Christmas Walk is on December 2nd by kicking off at
1:00pm with the Santa 5K race and craft market, tree lighting will be at 5:45pm
on the courthouse lawn followed by the parade and then the walk lasts until 9:
00pm.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:29 p.m.
   
            _____________________________________
            Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
December 4, 2023
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 4, 2023
City of Independence, Ky.
 Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
4, 2023 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Chris Vogelpohl and Greg Waite. Council Member Steffen
wasn’t present at the beginning of the meeting. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the November 13, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
November 13, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on November 13, 2023. Council Member Shafer made
a motion to approve and Council Member Brinker made a second. Motion carried
with all ayes, 5-0.
Police Promotions
Mayor Reinersman stated there have been several promotions within the Police
Department, including our Police Cadets in our Explorer program. David Perez
and Lawson Ealy were both promoted to Sergeant.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-17 – Text Amendment for SI Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-17 which amends the text of the
zoning code by creating a new zone, Suburban Industrial (SI) zone. He stated
this includes adding to use table, development standards and signage.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-17 a second reading. He stated there
was a public hearing held in October and comes from the changes made in the Z21
code that was adopted.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-17.
Council Member Shafer made a motion with a second by Council Member Vogelpohl.
Roll was called and votes were 5-0. Motion carried.
Ordinance No. 2023-O-18 – Map Amendment for SI Zone – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2023-O-18 which amends the zoning map,
changing 9.3 acres at 4290 Richardson Road from General Industrial (GI) zone to
Suburban Industrial (SI) zone.
Council Member Steffen arrived to the meeting at 7:11 p.m.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2023-O-18 a second reading. He stated PDS
staff gave a favorable recommendation.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2023-O-18.
Council Member Shafer made a motion with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll
was called and votes were 6-0. Motion carried.
Resolution No. 2023-R-14 – Timberview – Final Development Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2023-R-14 which authorizes and
approves a final development plan for Phase 40 Timberview to construct 42 two-
bedroom multi-family units within two buildings and off-street parking and
stormwater detention.
Council Member Steffen stated the current parking regulations are slotting 1.5
cars per unit and for multi-family units, they are likely to have 2 or more
vehicles per unit.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2023-R-14.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion with a second by Council Member Franzen.
Roll was called and votes were 6-0. Motion carried.
Discussion -Trailer Storage Review
Mr. Moriconi stated the proposed updates were presented to the Kenton County
Planning Commission. In October. He stated there were concerns regarding grey
areas such as were how to define “in working order”, what does “empty” mean,
what time does “at night” start, etc. Mr. Moriconi stated the topic was tabled
and a committee consisting of PDS staff, the code enforcement officer, Council
Member Vogelpohl and himself. There was some discussion about adding
clarification verbiage to include: not more than two axles, maximum height of
the side rails to three feet - from the deck of the trailer,
A motion was made by Council Member Vogelpohl and seconded by Council Member
Brinker to move forward with amended application to the Kenton County Planning
Commission. Roll was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the LED street light conversion is getting started with
Duke Energy throughout the city and the new bulbs should start saving money on
monthly energy costs.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Christmas Walk was a huge success with a record
crowd. He showed he was appreciative to everyone that made it happen such as
city staff, the Police Department, the Independence Business Association,
Kenton County Fiscal Court, Kenton County building maintenance, community
churches, Mr. and Mrs. Boggs, and the downtown businesses that opened their
doors.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Vogelpohl to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:04 p.m.
   
            _____________________________________
            Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
2024 Minutes
January 8, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of January 8, 2024
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, January
8, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen and Greg Waite. Council Members Franzen and Vogelpohl were
not present for the meeting. Also present was City Administrator Chris
Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the December 4, 2023 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
December 4, 2023.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on December 4, 2023. Council Member Shafer made a
motion to approve and Council Member Steffen made a second. Motion carried with
all ayes, 4-0.
Police Promotions
Mayor Reinersman congratulated and swore in three newly promoted Sergeants:
George Kreutzjans, Matt Fassler and Josh Salyers. He also welcomed back Officer
Nathan Fuson.
Resolution No. 2024-R-01 – Updated County Annexation Plat
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-01 which adopts a modern and
accurate legal description of territory previously annexed by ordinance. He
stated the city enacted Ordinance No. 2007-O-12 in 2007 to annex 22.53 acres on
the east side of KY17 but the Secretary of State never received the official
plat to complete the annexation process.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-01.
Council Member Waite made a motion with a second by Council Member Brinker.
Roll was called and votes were 4-0. Motion carried.
Proposed Ordinance – Amending the Adopted Residential Building Code – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the adopted
Residential Building Code. He stated any subsequent editions of the Kentucky
Building Code or Kentucky Residential Code shall supersede the prior code.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Executive Order No. 2024-EO-01 – PDS Appointment for 2024
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2024-EO-01 which re-appoints
Mayor Reinersman as the primary representative and Council Member Chris
Vogelpohl as the alternate representative to the Planning and Development
Services Council for 2024.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the amphitheater terracing is coming along well and is on
schedule. He stated the Cherokee Plaza is getting an updated exterior facade.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence Fire District is offering some CPR
training at Station No. 1 on Saturday, January 27th. He stated the Independence
Volunteer Corp is looking for assistance on growth and direction and asked
council if they have any ideas on how to better utilize the group. Mayor
Reinersman stated the 2023 taxes are 97.5% collected.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Shafer to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:27 p.m.
   
               _____________________________________
                Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
February 5, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 5, 2024
City of Independence, Ky.
 
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
5, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Jason John led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Brian Ferayorni.
 
Approval of the January 8, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
January 8, 2024.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
from the regular meeting held on January 8, 2024. Council Member Shafer made a
motion to approve and Council Member Waite made a second. Motion carried, 5-0.
Council Member Franzen abstained.
 
Mayor Reinersman stated the topic of the zone change for the property on
Madison Pike, across from St. Cecilia Church is not on the agenda.
Public Comment
Patrick Redden, 5301 Millcreek Circle, Independence, KY – stated there have
been bulldozers behind his property and he let the workers know that they are
required to install a silt fence before they start moving dirt.
 
Ben Johnson, 762 Stonybrook Court, Independence, KY – stated they were told by
PDS that their fence has to be attached to their house, they went to the Board
of Adjustment for a variance and it was denied. Mayor Reinersman stated to have
this condition, it would have to be a text amendment to change the ordinance.
He stated that prior to Z21 being implemented, corner lots were allowed to have
a fence on the side yard next to the street.
 
Kristen Martin, PDS Zoning Administrator showed some diagrams of what they
currently have and what the code allows.
 
There was some discussion to put together a resolution with the intent modify
the fence limits on corner lots in the code and Mr. Moriconi would file for a
text amendment to the Kenton County Planning Commission to hear at a public
hearing
 
Council Member Franzen made a motion for a resolution to modify fence
requirements or corner lots. Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was
called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
 
Ordinance No. 2024-O-01 – Amending the Adopted Residential Building Code – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-O-01 which amends the adopted
Residential Building Code. He stated any subsequent editions of the Kentucky
Building Code or Kentucky Residential Code shall supersede the prior code.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-O-01 a second reading.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-01.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve and Council Member Steffen
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment for Flatbed Trailer Parking – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which proposes a text amendment
to the zoning code in regards to flatbed trailers. He stated the amendment
would allow the parking of flatbed utility trailers permanently in front or
side yards with certain regulations and updating timeframes for temporary
parking of vehicles from 72 to 96 hours.
 
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
 
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing Safety Measures for Open Burning – 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which establishes safety
measures and regulations related to open burning and recreational fires. Mr.
Moriconi stated the police frequently get complaints about open burning
regarding smoke and ash happening in new developments, etc. and not for
backyard firepits. Council Vogelpohl recommended changing the size of
recreational fires from three feet by three feet to five feet by five feet.
 
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and noted the
suggested change to recreation fire size to five feet by five feet for the
first reading.
 
Resolution No. 2024-R-02 – Matching Federal 536 Raise Grant for KY536
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-02 which authorizes the Mayor
to provide a letter offering $50,000 from the city as financial support as part
of the Kenton County Fiscal Court’s application to the USDOT for matching
federal 536 Raise Grant funds for the widening and realignment of KY536 from
Calvary Drive to KY17. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2024-R-02.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-02.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Brinker made
a second. Roll was called and all ayes, Council Member Steffen abstained.
Motion carries, 5-0.
 
Resolution No. 2024-R-03 – Interlocal Agreement for Housing Choice Voucher
Program
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-03 which authorizes the Mayor
to execute an interlocal agreement between the city and the Housing Authority
of Covington, relating to the Housing Choice Voucher Program.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2024-R-03 he stated the Housing Authority
of Covington would be the clearing house for the program.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-03.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 
Resolution No. 2024-R-04 – Adopting the Joinder Agreement with KY Deferred
Compensation
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-04 which adopts and enters the
city into a Joinder Agreement for city employees to participate in Kentucky
Public Employee’s Deferred Compensation Authority. Attorney Gatlin read
Resolution No. 2024-R-04.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-04.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the terracing of the amphitheater is finished with concrete
and all that is left to complete is grading and seeding.
 
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the new maintenance building has been constructed off
Peach Drive to help store extra city equipment. He stated there were social
media reports of a recent attempted abduction and arrest at Kroger which were
not true.
 
Council Member Franzen stated there was some confusion when the topic of
allowing the mayor to be eligible for city employee insurance. She stated it
was previously approved for medical insurance and she wants to request that the
mayor also be eligible for dental and vision insurance as well.
 
Council Member Franzen made a motion to allow the mayor to sign up for the
city’s dental and vision employee plans. Council Member Waite made a second.
Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
 
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:26 p.m.
                     _____________________________________
   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
March 4, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 4, 2024
City of Independence, Ky.
 
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 4,
2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Brian Ferayorni.
 
Approval of the February 5, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
February 5, 2024. Council Member Steffen noted a spelling correction of “silk”
to “silt” in the minutes.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve the amended council meeting
minutes from the regular meeting held on February 5, 2024. Council Member
Steffen made a motion to approve the amended minutes and Council Member Shafer
made a second. Motion carried, 6-0.
 
Proclamations
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to Kenton County Dispatch Supervisors
Missy Eddy and Julie White for their skilled communication techniques which
assisted officers with a domestic dispute that occurred on January 7, 2024.
 
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to Officers Adam McGuire, Walter
Cooley, Nathan Kling, Nathan Strunk, Samuel Collins and Travis Lovell for their
swift action to detain the suspect safely during a domestic dispute that
occurred on January 7, 2024.
 
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to Detectives Adam Strine, A.J.
Kenner and Eric Higgins for their attention to detail and ability to gather
evidence to support the prosecution of the suspect associated with a domestic
dispute that occurred on January 7, 2024.
 
Police Awards
Mayor Reinersman and Chief Ferayorni presented the Silver Star for Bravery
Award to Officers Adam McGuire, Walter Cooley and Nathan Kling and the General
Commendation Award to Officers Samuel Collins, Nathan Strunk and Travis Lovell
for their actions during a domestic dispute call that occurred on January 7,
2024.
 
Madison Pike Condo Development Discussion
Mayor Reinersman stated the developers have withdrawn their initial proposal to
build 120 condos on the property across from St. Cecilia Church. He shared a
presentation to discuss common concerns and misconceptions. Mayor Reinersman
stated the site is currently 3 different zones: PUD, R-M and R-CVS. Mayor
Reinersman stated the 2020 traffic study showed 6,255 cars per day on average
in that same area. He stated the proposed two-bedroom condo complex is
estimated to generate an additional 57 cars during AM peak (6:00 – 10:00am) and
68 additional cars during PM peak (2:00 – 7:00pm) per day. He stated one of the
rumors is the city is going to get a bunch of money from this development and
the truth is it would only be about $65,000 a year in property taxes.  
 
Mayor Reinersman stated some benefits of working with the developer is their
willingness to install a 12’ retaining wall that screens the first 1.5 floors
for the largest buildings, additional tree screening, the building quality
exceeds the minimum design standards and the complex would have a HOA. He
stated the Kenton County Planning Commission recommended disapproval for the
initial plan submitted. Mayor Reinersman stated the developer asked to meet
with the city and it has been discussed of having the developer reduce the
density, add more screening, conduct a traffic study and resubmit a new plan to
the Kenton County Planning Commission. Mayor Reinersman shared some images and
3-D renderings of the proposed buildings which illustrates the view for the
Millcreek neighbors.
 
Council Member Franzen made a motion for a brief recess. Council Member Waite
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0. Council took a recess at 8:00
pm.
 
Council Member Franzen made a motion to go back in session. Council Member
Waite made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0. Council entered back in
session at 8:09 pm.
Public Comment
Bob Hasekoester, 473 Independence Station Rd, Independence, KY  – Mr.
Hasekoester shared a concern with fence requirements for his property. Mayor
stated he can call the city building and speak with Chris Moriconi regarding
the issue.   
 
Sandy Shoemaker – 5160 Madison Pike, Independence, KY – Ms. Shoemaker stated
her concern about traffic on Old Madison Pike and wants the city to create a
new road so traffic can go directly to the four-lane road on KY17.
 
Don Lambert, 5220 Millcreek Circle, Independence, KY – Mr. Lambert states the
city does not have an urban environment and it’s not conscience to have that
much traffic on that part of Old Madison.
 
Jean Pauly – 2101 Hartland Blvd, Independence, KY  – Ms. Pauly asked if the
street from the condos will go through Hartland. Mayor Reinersman stated there
will be a street from the condo development directly to Old Madison Pike and
will not cross over onto Hartland.
 
Kate Campbell, 1791 Independence Rd, Independence, KY –  Ms. Campbell wanted to
know what the worst-case scenario would be regarding the apartments and is
worried about existing traffic before adding another development. Mayor
Reinersman stated Madison Pike is a state road and the city is working with the
state regarding current traffic concerns.
 
Melissa Boyers, 5301 Madison Pike, Independence, KY – Ms. Boyers stated her
concern about the traffic coming and going from St. Cecilia Church all day
long.
 
Jim Bertram Jr, Survey Manager, Hrezo Engineering Inc – Mr. Bertram stated he
is the developer for the project and the entrance would be where the white
house is currently on Madison, which is across from the gravel driveway to St.
Cecilia.
 
Mayor Reinersman stated the state will be conducting the updated traffic study
and it will have to be approved by PDS.
 
Cathy Kappes, 5354 Millcreek Circle, Independence, KY – Ms. Kappes asked where
the previous traffic study was done and if any trees could be left as a buffer
between the development and the homes on Millcreek. Mr. Bertram stated the
traffic study was done at the proposed entrance to the development. He added
there will be a 12’ retaining wall, a fence and newly planted trees will
provide a buffer.
 
Penny McCool – 113 Roman Way, Independence, KY – Ms. McCool stated she
understands why the city is working with the builder so there is some control,
but she questioned what the city will give the next builder. Mayor states
working with each development on a case-by-case basis is in the best interest
of the city and its residents.
 
Mayor Reinersman stated the developer is resubmitting their plan for the April
4th public hearing and it should be before council for a first reading in May
and a second reading in June.
 
Patrick Redden, 5301 Millcreek Circle, Independence, KY – Mr. Redden stated
he’s been involved in several meetings with the city officials and the
developer and has stated his concerns. He stated he realizes he can’t stop a
development from being built, but has been able to help create some positive
changes with the development for the benefit of neighbors on Millcreek.
 
Mike Diorio, 5285 Millcreek Circle, Independence, KY – Mr. Diorio stated his
concern with the fact that the retaining wall will only be 10 feet from
resident’s property. Mayor Reinersman stated its allowed within the zoning
requirement.
 
Council Member Franzen made a motion for a brief recess. Council Member Waite
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0. Council took a recess at 9:24
pm.
 
Council Member Franzen made a motion to go back in session. Council Member
Waite made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0. Council entered back in
session at 9:32 pm.
 
Ordinance No. 2024-O-02 – Text Amendment for Flatbed Trailer Parking – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman Ordinance No. 2024-O-02 which proposes a text amendment to the
zoning code in regards to flatbed trailers. He stated the amendment would allow
the parking of flatbed utility trailers permanently in front or side yards with
certain regulations and updating timeframes for temporary parking of vehicles
from 72 to 96 hours. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-O-02 a second
reading and mentioned exhibit A and should have had a strike through of 72
hours and underlining 96 hours.
 
Jay Huber, 6522 Taylor Mill Rd, Independence, KY – Mr. Huber stated the current
ordinance only addresses 39-foot trailers and he’s spent time trying to fight a
citation issued by PDS.  
 
Council Member Vogelpohl stated the reasoning for recommended changes will
provide more freedom to resident’s utility trailer storage on their property.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-02 with
noted changes. Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve and Council
Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and votes were 5-1. Council Member
Steffen opposed. Motion carried.
 
Ordinance No. 2024-O-03 – Establishing Safety Measures for Open Burning –
TABLED
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which establishes safety
measures and regulations related to open burning and recreational fires.
 
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to table Ordinance No. 2024-O-03.
Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 
Proposed Ordinance – Adopting Supplements S-26 through S-31 to Code of
Ordinances
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts Supplements S-26
through S-31 into the Code of Ordinances. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed
ordinance a first reading.
 
Resolution No. 2024-R-05 – Adopting Northern Kentucky Regional Hazard
Mitigation Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-05 which adopts the Northern
Kentucky Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No.
2024-R-05.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-05.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Stefen made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 
Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-01 – Declaring Surplus Property - Scherry Ave
Property
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-01 which declares
approximately .1 acre located at Scherry Ave. Mr. Moriconi stated the property
was already given to resident Earl Cox years ago who paid the city for the
property. He stated the property was never legally transferred to the resident
so the city is declaring it surplus so the property can be properly transferred
to Mr. Cox. Mr. Moriconi stated the resident has agreed to pay for the cost of
the appraisal of the property. Attorney Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2024-
MO-01.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-01.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 
Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-02 – Declaring Surplus Property – Police Equipment
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-02 which declares
several personal breathalyzers as surplus property and will be disposed of as
they are not in working order and not-repairable. Attorney Gatlin read
Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-02.
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-02.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve and Council Member Brinker made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 
Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-03 – Declaring Surplus Property – Inflatables
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-03 which declares three
inflatable attractions as surplus property and will be listed for sale on
www.govdeals.com . Attorney Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-03.   
 
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-03.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Waite made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
 
Award Bid – Hunters Green Reconstruction, Phase 2
Mr. Moriconi stated the lowest bidder, Neyra Paving, does not have experience
with a project of this scope. He stated there have been some issues during
phase 1 of the reconstruction project so recommends we use Riegler, whom has
experience in the city. Mr. Moriconi stated if Riegler is used, they will wait
until they finish phase 2 and then do the overlay for both phases.
 
Council Member Franzen made a motion to accept the bid of $841,072.50 from
Riegler Blacktop. Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Roll was called and
votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
 
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
 
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
 
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Easter Egg Hunt is on March 23rd at noon at
Memorial Park.
 
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 10:04 p.m.
                        
 
            _____________________________________
                Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
April 1, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of April 1, 2024
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, April 1,
2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the March 4, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
March 4, 2024.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes and
Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried, 6-0.
Swearing In of New Police Officers
Mayor Reinersman and Chief Ferayorni swore in new Police Officers William Parks
and Ryan Jones.
Proclamations
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation which declares the month of April,
2024 as Fair Housing Month.
Ordinance No. 2024-O-03 – Adopting Supplements S-26 through S-31 to Code of
Ordinances – 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-O-03 which adopts Supplements S-
26 through S-31 into the Code of Ordinances. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No.
2024-O-03 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-03.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-03. Council
Member Brinker made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Establishing Safety Measures for Open Burning – New 1st
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which establishes regulations
regarding open burning within the city. He stated the Police and Fire
Departments are entities to enforce safety measures for fires but they don’t
have the rules in writing to try and manage. Chief Ferayorni stated they do get
calls from residents throughout the city and by adopting an ordinance should
give them what they need to address the safety concerns and enforce a citation
when necessary. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment for Fencing on Corner Lots – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the zoning code to
allow fences in front yards for corner lots and reverse corner lots. Attorney
Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated the Kenton County
Planning Commission approved the recommendation at the public hearing held on
March 7, 2024.
Bob Hasekoester, 473 Independence Station Rd, Independence, KY – Mr.
Hasekoester stated he doesn’t live on a corner lot but lives on Independence
Station Road across from the old golf course. He stated there was fencing along
Independence Station Road but they took it down when they built their house. He
stated there is a fence right by the road on the property next to him and he
wants to continue it across the front of his property.
Andy Videokovich, Planning Manager with PDS – stated the Hasekoester’s issue
would not qualify as a variance with the Board of Adjustments and there would
have to be a change to the zoning code, couldn’t make an exception just for
this property.
There was some discussion about possibly allowing certain zones or a minimum
number of acres to allow other properties to have fences in their front yards.
There would need to be a zone change for the property and then another text
amendment to allow front yard fences. Mayor Reinersman stated Mr. and Mrs.
Hasekoester can request a zone change and they can contact Mr. Moriconi to help
with the process.
Mayor Reinersman stated that council has time to review the R-RE zone within
the city to see if they want to adjust the text.
David Riggs, 777 Stonybrook Drive, Independence, KY  – Mr. Riggs stated he
lives on a corner lot and his fence is already going into his neighbor’s front
yard and he doesn’t understand why he can’t put 15 more feet. He stated it’s
his property and he feels like he should be able to do whatever he wants to his
property. Mayor Reinersman asked council if they want to allow fences in front
yards in subdivisions and no one spoke in favor of changing the code regarding
fences going into neighbor’s front yards.
Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-04 – Declaring Surplus Property – Printers
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-04 which declares two
Toshiba Printer/Copiers as surplus property and will be recycled with I.T.
Supply Solutions, LLC. Attorney Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-04.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-04.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Adam Neace, 5167 Arborknoll Lane, Independence, KY 
- Mr. Neace is a member of the local Masonic Lodge who is also an Independence
resident who wants to sell consumer fireworks at Masonic Bradford Lodge. The
current zone states the sale of consumer fireworks currently has to be in a
commercial zone and within a permanent structure. Council Member Franzen stated
Independence Christian Church may allow them to sell them there and recommended
he contact them.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated to be careful with the upcoming weather in the next 36
hours with predicted storms coming our way.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated former Council Member Steve Feldhaus passed away last
week. He stated his appreciation to Hickory Grove for partnering with the city
again for the Independence Easter Egg Hunt. He stated the condo proposal has
been resubmitted a revised plan to the Kenton County Planning Commission and
will be at the public hearing at 6:15 p.m. on Thursday, April 4, 2024. Mayor
Reinersman stated if residents aren’t able to make the public hearing and want
to voice their concerns regarding the issue, they can email
legalnotices@pdskc.org.
Council Member Brinker asked about when the gravel street at the end of Liberty
Orchard will be paved since the building is almost complete for the
subdivision. Mr. Moriconi said he would look into and get back to Council
Member Brinker.
Council Member Shafer asked about a flashing light at Kimberly coming onto
Independence Station Road. Mayor Reinersman stated they will be a flashing
light to notify drivers pulling out of Kimberly that there is oncoming traffic
coming on Independence Station Road.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:44 p.m.
 
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
May 6, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of May 6, 2024
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, May 6,
2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the April 1, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
April 1, 2024.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes and
Council Member Steffen made a second. Motion carried, 6-0.
Swearing In of New Police Officers
Mayor Reinersman and Chief Ferayorni swore in new Police Officer Zach Tunis.
Proclamations
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation which declares the month of April,
2024 as Fair Housing Month.
Medical Cannabis Legislation – Presentation by Sharmili Reddy, Executive
Director of Planning and Development Services
Mrs. Reddy
Kentucky passed KRS 218B in 2023 and HB 829 – Modifications in 2024. Admin
regulations 915 KAR 1.001-110 & 2:00. A cannabis business is licensed by the
cabinet and shall be subject to and required to comply with – any
subsequential…
Cannot be less restrictive than state statute or admin regulations, regulate
time, place and manner and cannot impose undue burden or make the operations
unreasonable or impractical.
Are required to be in enclosed building and local jurisdictions will not be
able to…..
Local gov’t options: 1) adopt regulations (no ballot option), 2) no – enact
ordinance – public petition to allow cannabis operations or 3) on ballot –
enact resolution with question on ballot. If the county votes no, the city can
still vote yes through ordinance. May assess an additional reasonable fee to
compensate for additional corrections.
Cultivation – Processing – Production – Dispensary – Safety Compliance Facility
KRS 218B – 1,000 foot buffer from schools and day cares.
July 1 – August 31: Applications, business licensing lottery, license issued.
Dispensaries cannot open to the public prior to January 1, 2025.
Sharmili stated the city will need be a resolution authorizing the city to
allow medical cannabis and there are limited conditions that would qualify for
the medical cannabis.
Ordinance No. 2024-O-04 - Establishing Safety Measures for Open Burning – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-O-04 which establishes
regulations regarding open burning within the city, not including recreational
fires.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-O-04 a second reading
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-04.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve and Council Member Waite made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2024-O-05 – Text Amendment for Fencing on Corner Lots – 2nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-O-05 which amends the zoning code
to allow fences in front yards for corner lots and reverse corner lots.
Attorney Gatlin stated the Kenton County Planning Commission approved the
recommendation at the public hearing held on March 7, 2024 and gave Ordinance
No. 2024-O-05 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-05.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Shafer made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2024-R-06 – Approval of Starbucks Final Development Plan
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-06 which approves the final
development plan for the construction of a 2,480 square foot Starbucks drive-
thru restaurant, with off-street parking to include 34 parking spaces.
There was some discussion regarding lights shining into neighboring houses and
if there would be a buffer next to house next to new Starbucks.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-06.
Council Member Wate made a motion to approve and Council Member Franzen made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Proposed Map Amendment for Madison Pike – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the zoning map for
5306 Madison Pike from PUD (Planned Unit Development), R-CVS (Conventional
Subdivision), and R-M (Residential Mixed) to PUD (Planned Unit Development). He
stated the applicant is proposing to construct 12 condominium buildings with a
total of 110 units
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to take a brief recess, Council Member X
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes. Meeting went into recess at 7:52
p.m.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to go back into session, Council Member
Shafer made a second. Motion carried with ayes. Meeting returned to session at
7:58 p.m.
Proposed Ordinance – Amended Budget for 2023-2024 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the 2023-2024
budget.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Council Member Franzen expressed her concerns regarding the idea of the splash
pad with unexpected costs, maintenance, liability, etc. She suggested forming a
committee to discuss the pieces of having a splash pad and Mayor Reinersman
agreed that would be a good idea. Council Member Steffen also volunteered to
work with the Program Coordinator and engineer to see if the two possible
locations are viable for the water lines, concrete pad, etc.
Council Member Steffen stated the money does need to be allocated to the budget
in order to apply for the grant to help pay for the building of the splash pad.
If the project doesn’t pan out for whatever reason, the money can be
reallocated to something else for the city.
Mayor’s Budget Message regarding the 2024-2025 Proposed Budget
Mayor Reinersman stated the proposed 2024-2025 budget remains on sound
financial footing. He stated some of the projects the city will take on are
updating street lights to LED, the police department is fully staffed,
amphitheater terracing is almost complete.
Proposed Ordinance – Proposed Budget for 2024-2025 – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which proposes the budget for
the 2024-2025 fiscal year. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first
reading.
Proposed Ordinance – Employee Pay Classification – 1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends Ordinance No.
2023-O-11 and enacts the updated personnel and pay classification plan pursuant
to KRS 83A.070(3).
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-05 – Declaring Surplus Property – Police Vehicles
and a Trailer
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-05 which declares three
2014 Ford Explorers, a 2013 Ford Fusion and a 9950 GVWR Trailer.
Attorney Gatlin read Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-04.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2024-MO-05.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Waite made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated sod has been put down on the terraced hillside and the rest
will be seeded.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation to the fire district for watering the
new sod on the hillside at Memorial Park. He stated the first party in the park
will be on June 13th with Doghouse and White Liger, the party starts at 6:00
with the music starting at 7:00. Barleycorn’s will be serving their craft beer
at the summer concerts and a big thank you to the sponsor, Hand and Hand
Realty.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:44 p.m.
 
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
June 3, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of June 3, 2024
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, June 3,
2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the May 6, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
May 6, 2024.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the May 6, 2024 meeting and Council Member Brinker made a second. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Dr. Mike Reeser. PhD presented council with some information regarding medical
cannabis in regards to PTSD as well as cancer. He stated there are several
prescriptions available but come with many side effects and withdrawal
symptoms. Dr. Reeser stated medical cannabis could help treat several issues
with a prescription and have easier side effects and there are no withdrawal
symptoms if patient discontinues use.
Chief Brian Ferayorni stated he has worked with Dr. Mike Reeser for years and
appreciates his expertise. He stated he requests that council takes a look at
everything in regards to allowing medical cannabis regulations.
Proclamation - Senator Damon Thayer
Mayor Reinersman presented Kentucky State Senator Damon Thayer a proclamation
thanking him for representing our state and city, especially with his
assistance with the KY536 project.
Ordinance No. 2024-0-06 -Proposed Map Amendment for Madison Pike - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-0-06 which amends the zoning map
for 5306 Madison Pike from PUD (Planned Unit Development), R-CVS (Conventional
Subdivision), and R M (Residential Mixed) to PUD (Planned Unit Development). He
stated the applicant is proposing to construct 12 condominium buildings with a
total of 110 units, 72 garage parking spaces and 113 off street parking spaces.
Melissa Boyers. 5301 Madison Pike. Independence. KY -Ms. Boyers questioned who
was the owner of the property for the proposed condos. Mayor Reinersman stated
he believes the property is under contract with a developer, whom would sell
lots to Fischer Homes to construct the condos.
Perry McCool. 113 Roman Way, Independence. KY - Ms. McCool stated she thought
she previously heard that there hadn't been changes in the city's planning in
several years. Mayor Reinersman stated that is not true and the city updates
the comprehensive plan every 5 years, which is required by law.
Council Member Steffen stated it seems the only change to the new plan from the
original plan is there is one less building.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-0-06.
Council Member Steffen made a motion to reject the map amendment but could not
provide reason for overturning the Kenton County Planning Commission so
withdrew his motion to reject.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-O-06 a second reading.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-0-06 and
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and Council Member Steffen
voted in opposition and all remaining council members voted in favor. Motion
carried, 5-I.
Ordinance No. 2024-O-07 - Amended Budget for 2023-2024 - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-0-07 which proposes the amended
budget for the 2023-2024 fiscal year. Mr. Moriconi stated there were minor
changes made to the general fund due to additional revenue from the Municipal
Road Aid and increased expenses for the city building parking lot repairs and
hydro-seeding the amphitheater hillside. Finance Director Rachyl Gibson stated
the overall change is to the general fund of$25,000 due to the city receiving
more MRA funds than anticipated.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-O-07 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-0-07.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve and Council Member Brinker made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2024-0-08 - Proposed Budget for 2024-2025 - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-0-08 which proposes the budget
for the 2024- 2025 fiscal year.
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-0-08 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-0-08.
Council Member Steffen made a motion to approve and Council Member Franzen made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2024-0-09 - Employee Pav Classification -2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-0-09 which amends Ordinance No.
2023-0-11 and enacts the updated personnel and pay classification plan pursuant
to KRS 83A.070(3).
Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-0-09 a second reading.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-0-09.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2024-R-07 - MRA Cooperative Agreement
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution 2024-R-07 which adopts and approves the
Municipal Aid Coop Program Contract between the City of Independence,
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Transportation Cabinet and the Department of Rural
and Municipal Aid for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2024.
Attorney Gatlin read gave Resolution 2024-R-07.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution 2024-R-07. Council
Member Waite made a motion to approve and Council Member Shafer made a second.
Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0, Council Member Steffen abstained.
Resolution No. 2024-R-08 - Title IV Program
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution 2024-R-08 which adopts and approves and
adopts the NKADD Title VI Program Plan which relates to financial assistance
with federal and state grants.
Attorney Gatlin read gave Resolution 2024-R-08.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution 2024-R-08. Council
Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2024-R-09 - ADA Compliance
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution 2024-R-09 which states the City of
Independence will comply with the Americans with Disability Act.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution 2024-R-09.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution 2024-R-09. Council
Member Steffen made a motion to approve and Council Member Brinker made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to take a brief recess, Council Member
Vogelpohl made a second. Motion carried with all ayes. Meeting went into recess
at 8:09 p.m.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to go back into session, Council Member
Brinker made a second. Motion carried with ayes. Meeting returned to regular
session at 8:16 p.m.
Medical Cannabis Program Discussion
Mayor Reinersman stated Kenton County will make a decision next week and has
heard they will be banning the cannabis businesses within the county. Mr.
Moriconi stated someone reached out to the city a few days prior asking if the
city will be allowing dispensaries. There was some discussion regarding the
options for council which include decide to ban it which would require an
ordinance
with 2 readings which includes a 30-day petition period, place on the ballot
and let the voters decide as well as submitting a text amendment to Planning
and Development Services (PDS) to research and make recommendations and have a
public hearing. Council Member Franzen made a motion to put the cannabis it on
the ballot and let the residents vote on the issue.
Resolution No. 2024-R-10-Add Cannabis Business Regulations to be decided by
voters Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-10 which directs the
question of regulating cannabis businesses to operate within the limits to the
city's voters at the next regular election.
Attorney Gatlin read and clarified that Resolution No. 2024-R-10 would direct
the question "Are you in favor of the sale of medicinal cannabis at a licensed
dispensary and the operation of other cannabis businesses in the City of
Independence which is per KRS 218B.130 (2) (c).
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution 2024-R-10 to add
Cannabis Business Regulations to the ballot during next election. Council
Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Member Vogelpohl made a
second. Motion carried with a 4-2 vote with Council Members Shafer and Steffen
voted in opposition.
There was some discussion about also passing a resolution about a sponsored
text amendment for industrial zones. Attorney Gatlin stated since council
passed passing the question to the voters, it could be a conflict if the
businesses are limited to industrial zones. Mayor Reinersman stated PDS can do
a deeper dive and look into the city's zones and identify if there are any
allowable areas that could accommodate the cannabis businesses that are
appropriate distance from schools and daycares.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to rescind Resolution No. 2024-R-10.
Council Member Steffen seconded to rescind the resolution. Roll was called and
the votes were 2-4, motion failed.
Award Bid for City Building Parking Lot Repairs
Mayor Reinersman stated there were two bids received for the parking lot
repairs at the city building. He stated Eaton Asphalt was $74,496 and $74,770
was Riegler's Blacktop and the engineer's estimate was $73,160.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to accept Eaton Asphalt's bid of $74,496
for the city building's parking lot repairs. Council Member Waite made a
second. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 6-0.
Attorney Report - Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator's Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the KY Transportation District is doing a traffic study at
the intersections of Cox Road and Taylor Mill Road as well as Independence
Station Road and Madison Pike to see if either warrant a stop sign or a traffic
signal in the intersection.
Mayor's Report
Mayor Reinersman stated he will be out of town for the September 9th council
meeting so that likely will be cancelled and a special meeting will be held on
August 26th and possibly another special meeting in September for the 2nd
reading of the tax rate. He stated the first Party in the Park is next week on
June 13th and the renovations to the amphitheater are complete.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:47 p.m.
   
               _____________________________________
                Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
July 1, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of July 1, 2024
City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, July 1,
2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the June 3, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
June 3, 2024.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the June 3, 2024 meeting and Council Member Brinker made a second. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Bob and Fran Hasekoester, 473 Independence Station Road, Independence, KY – Mr.
Hasekoester stated he wanted to know if council had decided to grant a
conditional use for fences in front yards. Mayor Reinersman stated it is not a
good practice to do spot zoning and suggested them applying or a variance.
(listen to meeting online for clarification). There was some discussion about
council submitting a text amendment to allow fences in front yards. Attorney
Gatlin and Mr. Moriconi stated they would work with PDS to assist in drafting
the resolution to apply or a text amendment.
Splash Pad Presentation – Carol Franzen
Council Members Franzen presented to council some information regarding splash
pads including: the plans must be submitted by our engineer with their
individual seal, the Health Department will look at the plan first and it will
then be passed onto the state. Operating requirements including recirculating
water must be tested three times a day and have a UV light disinfection system.
Council Member Franzen showed various examples of splash parks with different
equipment packages. Council Member Steffen stated the city has done a great job
of incorporating parks for the families that live here and the splash pad would
be a great investment. He stated the annual expenses are not much but it’s
mainly the upfront costs and if we get the grant, it should cover a big part of
the initial cost. There was some discussion about options on who would be
responsible for testing the water, turning water off and on each day as well as
parking challenges.
Resolution No. 2024-R-11 – Updated City Road System
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-11 which updates the city road
list.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-11.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Vogelpohl made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2024-R-12 – Regulation of Medical Cannabis
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-12 which proposes a text
amendment. He stated this would have Planning and Development Services (PDS)
staff research and issue recommendations as well as moving forward with a
hearing in front of the Kenton County Planning Commission for the regulation of
medical cannabis through zoning.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-12.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Vogelpohl made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated the city has had 6 foreclosure actions have been sent to
the city and 1 property that’s been abandoned.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated the city received a check from the City of Ryland Heights
for the improvements the we made on Marshall Road, which a portion is one side
of the road is Independence and other side is Ryland Heights. He stated
Detective Higgins is holding a Human Trafficking Class on July 31st from 6:00 –
8:00pm at the Senior Center.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Yeager family expressed their thanks to council for
the improvements to the Donna Yaeger Amphitheater. He stated Publix was
officially announced they are coming to Independence, estimated construction to
start in the fall. Mayor Reinersman stated the upcoming weekend is the annual
Independence Day Festival including family night on Friday with discounted ride
bracelets, bands, Circus Mojo and a roman candle show. He added Saturday
includes the parade, festival picks back up and GenX plays leading up to the
amazing fireworks show at 10:00pm.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Shafer to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:46 p.m.
 
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
August 5, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 5, 2024   City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August 5,
2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave
Shafer, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Assistant Police Chief Jake Boyle.
Approval of the July 1, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
July 1, 2024.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the July 1, 2024 meeting and Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion
carried, 6-0.
AED Importance - Proiect Heart Restart
Mayor Reinersman stated Project Heart Restart is helping with funding AED
machines in cruisers. Josh Vogel with Project Heart Restart stated there are
over 350,000 cardiac arrests annually. He stated the discounted cost is $2,000
per AED machine. Partners include Christ Hospital, create a division just for
police and first responders. Hamilton County police association needed 100
units for all patrol cars. By September or October, every county will have an
AED in every patrol car. Contributor group includes Rotary International, major
national. Phase 3 is to put an AED in every patrol car in Boone, Campbell and
Kenton counties. Assistant Chjef Boyle stated our max patrol officers at one
time is currently 8 to 9. Mayor Reinersman stated we have budgeted for 4 AEDs
for the current year and Project Heart Restart could help us get the additional
AEDs needed by the end of the year.
Resolution No. 2024-R-13 -Text Amendment for Fences in Front Yards
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-13 which is a text amendment
to allow fences in front yards. He stated the text amendment proposal is to
allow fences with normal setback requirements, with a maximum height of 3 feet
in the front yards of parcels that are over 3 acres in size in the R-CVS, R-RE
and R-LLS zones.
Mayor Reinersman stated PDS did an initial review of the city to find 3+ acre
lots in the city and that is how the listed zones were determined. There was
some discussion and council would like to raise the minimum fence height from
three feet to five feet and add the verbiage to allow fences 'on arterial and
connector roads' to the requirements. Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2024-
R-13.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-13.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve and Council Waite made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Award - Concrete Bids
Mayor Reinersman presented the bids for concrete jobs with two bidders with
Ernst Concrete and Hometown Concrete. Mr. Moriconi stated the preference is to
use Ernst Concrete, which is a dollar cheaper per yard. He stated the city can
accept both bids and Ernst would need to be made aware with a condition in
their contract that the city could use Hometown if Ernst isn't available in a
reasonable amount of time.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to award of Ernst Concrete and use
Hometown if Ernst isn't available in a reasonable amount of time, Council
Steffen made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report - Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he didn't have any business to report.
City Administrator's Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he didn't have any business to report.
Mayor's Report
Mayor Reinersman stated we had a record crowd for our Independence Day festival
this year. He stated we have our last Party in the Park this Thursday as well
as our police and fire department participating in the National Night Out at
Memorial Park on Tuesday, August 6th. Mayor Reinersman stated we'll have a
special meeting on August 26th at 7:00 for first reading of the tax rate and
then another special meeting on September 18th for the second reading.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Shafer to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:48 p.m.
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
August 26, 2024
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of August 26, 2024   City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, August
26, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Steffen and Greg Waite. Council Member Vogelpohl was
absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Police Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Resolution No. 2024-R-14 - Final Development Plan for Madison Pike Condos
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-14 which approves the final
development plan at 5306 Madison Pike, 5298 Madison Pike, 5308 Chateau Court,
5306 Chateau Court and approximately .5 acres at the terminus of Chateau Court
to construct condominiums consisting of 2 buildings with a total of 110 units.
He stated the development includes 45% open space, 72 driveway parking spaces,
72 garage parking spaces and 113 off-street parking spaces
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2024-R-14.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-14.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Shafer. Roll
was called and 4 votes were favor and Council Member Steffen opposed. Motion
carried, 4-1.
Proposed Ordinance Tax Rates for 2024-2025 - 1 st  Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which adopts real property tax
rate at $.22 or each hundred dollars and the tax rate of $.534 for each one
hundred dollars or personal property. He stated by keeping the rate the same as
last year, it gives the city about a $10,000 cushion. He stated properties are
evaluated according to statute by the Kenton County PVA (Property Value
Administrator) every 4 years and Independence is due in 2025.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Proposed Ordinance - Employee Pav Classification - 1 st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which enacts an updated
personnel and pay classification plan. He stated the change being made is the
addition of the Social Worker position. Mayor Reinersman stated the community
could greatly benefit from our police department having a social worker to help
provide resources to those in need within our community.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Attorney Report - Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator's Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor's Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the regular meeting scheduled for September 9 th will
be cancelled and a special meeting will be held on September 18 th for the
second reading of the tax rate.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Shafer to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:37 p.m.
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
September 18, 2024
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of September 18, 2024             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Wednesday,
September 18, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence
Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor
Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order
and led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Council
Member Steffen was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi,
City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Police Assistant Chief Jake
Boyle.
Ordinance No. 2024-O-10– Tax Rates for 2024-2025 – 2 nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-O-10 which adopts real property
tax rate at $.22 or each hundred dollars and the tax rate of $.534 for each one
hundred dollars or personal property.
Mayor Reinersman stated the tax rate has not been raised since 2016 and the
rate will be staying the same as the previous year. He stated Kenton County
Property Value Administrator (PVA) is the entity that re-assesses property
values every four years, per statute. Mayor Reinersman stated the city has
experienced increases as well such as an increase in police salaries as well as
additional services and the tax revenue with keeping the tax rate the same with
just an excess of $20,000 for the year.
Attorney Gatlin read Ordinance No. 2024-O-10 a second reading.
Dan Lambert, 5220 Millcreek Circle, Independence, KY – Mr. Lambert opposed to
keeping tax rate the same and thinks the tax rate should be decreased by 1% to
avoid overinflation. Mayor Reinersman questioned how the city would absorb the
increased costs that would come with decreasing the tax rate. Mr. Lambert
stated he thinks the city needs to just figure it out.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-10.
Council Member Franzen so moved, with a second by Council Member Waite. Roll
was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman congratulated Chief Brian Ferayorni as he recently completing
his first year as our Police Chief and to Assistant Chief Jake Boyle who
recently celebrated his 15-year anniversary with the city. He stated
Independence has a new K9 team, Canine Cairo and his handler Officer Ben
Bridges. Mayor Reinersman stated his appreciation to our local donors to help
sponsor our K9 team.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Vogelpohl to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 7:21 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
October 7, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 7, 2024                City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, October
7, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite and Chris Vogelpohl. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney
Jack Gatlin and Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the August 5, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
August 5, 2024.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the August 5, 2024, meeting and Council Member Brinker made a second. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Approval of the August 26, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the special meeting held on
August 26, 2024.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the August 26, 2024, meeting and Council Member Stefen made a second. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Approval of the September 18, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the special meeting held on
September 18, 2024.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the September 18, 2024, meeting and Council Member Vogelpohl made a second.
Motion carried, 6-0.
Swearing in New Officer
Mayor Reinersman sworn in new Police Officer Gage Ashcraft and stated he will
be attending the Police Academy in December.
NKADD Presentation – Community Initiatives and Rebranding
Correy Eimer, Northern Kentucky Area Development District Associate Director of
Workforce Development, presented to council. Mr. Eimer stated the NKADD covers
eight counties, the current budget is $32 million with $18.4 million of that
being passthrough revenue and about 60% is state funds and 20% is federal
funds. He shared the new logo and branding for the NKADD and shared the local
senior centers and career centers.
Ordinance No. 2024-O-11 – Employee Pay Classification – 2 nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-O-11 which enacts an updated
personnel and pay classification plan. He stated the change is the addition of
the Social Worker position. Mayor Reinersman stated the Police Department is
hoping to get the new position filled by the first of the year. Attorney Gatlin
read Ordinance No. 2024-O-11.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-11.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve, and Council Steffen made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment for Fences in Front Yards – 1 st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which allows front yard fences
for lots that are three plus acres and have frontage along an arterial or
collector road, within the R-CVS (Residential Conventional Subdivision), R-LLS
(Residential Large Lot Subdivision) and R-RE (Residential Rural Estate) zones.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Mr. Moriconi stated the Kenton County Planning Commission suggested the fence
height should be four feet, rather than five feet, to match the side fencing
height requirements.
There was discussion and council agreed to update the height requirement be
updated to four feet instead of five feet per KCPC’s recommendation.
Bob Hasekoester, 473 Independence Station Road, Independence, KY – Mr.
Hasekoester asked if a permit would be required to add a fence. Mayor
Reinersman stated a permit would be required but they would need to have the
second reading and pass the ordinance prior to him applying for the permit.
Tom List, 5005 McHugh Lane, 5005 McHugh Lane, Independence, KY – Mr. List asked
a question about regarding a zoning issue. Mr. Moriconi stated to call him
during office hours and he would help him with his concerns.
Proposed Ordinance – Text Amendment for Medical Cannabis – 1 st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which allows medical cannabis
cultivation, processing, producing and safety compliance facilities as
permitted uses within the SI (Suburban Industrial) zone, to allow medical
cannabis dispensaries as a permitted use within the RC (Rural Commercial), NC
Neighborhood Commercial), CC (Community Commercial) and SI (Suburban
Industrial) zones. Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading
Mayor Reinersman stated this is a first reading in the event the voters vote to
allow medical cannabis facilities within the cities as this would need to have
a second reading and be in place prior to the first of the year.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had nothing to report.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated a new event at Memorial Park called Boos and Brews will
be on Friday, October 11 th. He stated the event will include a haunted trail,
trunk or treat, howl-o-ween costume contest, Barleycorns Brewery’s craft beer
and a pet adoption event. He stated there will be a political forum which will
be televised on TBNK on October 29th.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 7:45p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
October 23, 2024
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of October 23, 2024             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Wednesday,
October 23, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence
Municipal Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor
Christopher Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order
and led the Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation.
Roll was called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom
Brinker, Carol Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Steffen and Greg Waite. Council
Member Vogelpohl was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris
Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Police Chief Brian
Ferayorni.
Mayor Reinersman stated there is a need to have a discussion regarding a real
estate transaction and possible pending litigation, which are required to be
discussed in executive session and no action can be taken during the executive
session.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to go into executive session pursuant
K.R.S. 61.810(b), 61.810(c) and 61.810(g) to discuss real estate transaction
and possible pending litigation; Council Member Shafer made a second. The votes
were unanimous, 5-0. The meeting went into executive session at 7:05 p.m.
Council Member Waite made a motion to return from executive session, back to
the regular session; Council Member Steffen made a second. The votes were
unanimous, 5-0. The meeting returned to regular session at 8:11 p.m.
Resolution No. 2024-R-15 – Authorizing Mayor to Sign Documents Relating to A
Real Estate Transaction
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-O-15 which authorizes the Mayor
to execute a special warranty deed; and a letter agreement related to the
termination of the $28,000,000 maximum aggregate principal amount taxable
industrial building revenue bonds, Series 2022A with a final maturity date of
August 1, 2052; and authorizing other related actions by the city. Attorney
Gatlin read Resolution No. 2024-R-15.
Mayor Reinersman stated there is an interested buyer for one of the buildings
at Park 536 and the interested buyer is requesting to dissolve the Industrial
Revenue Bonds and have proposed a one lump sum of $500,000 to the city.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-15 and
Council Member Waite made a second. Roll was called and the votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Shafer to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 8:15 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
November 11, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of November 11, 2024             City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, November
11, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Carol
Franzen, Dave Shafer, Greg Steffen and Chris Vogelpohl. Council Member Waite
was absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina
Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Independence downtown area has been declared a
National Historic District by the Kentucky Heritage Council. He thanked Tim
Waters for his time on the downtown revitalization committee and for his effort
in helping the downtown area receive the historical designation.
K-9 Retirement
Mayor Reinersman presented K-9 Jocko a personalized bowl as he retires from the
Independence Police Department. He also presented Sergeant Salyers with a
plaque. Mayor Reinersman thanked the Matt Haverkamp Foundation for their help
in making it possible for Independence to have a K-9 on the force.
Attorney Gatlin stated because Jocko is property of the city and along with his
retirement, council will need declare Jocko as surplus property. Council Member
Shafer made a motion to declare Jocko as surplus property and transfer him to
his handler Sergeant Josh Salyers. Council Member Franzen made a second. Roll
was called and votes were unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
K-9 Swearing In
Mayor Reinersman swore in the new K-9 Officer Cairo and introduced his handler
Officer Ben Bridges.
Approval of the October 7, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
October 7, 2024.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
for the October 7, 2024, meeting and Council Member Shafer made a second.
Motion carried, 5-0.
Approval of the October 23, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the special meeting held on
October 23, 2024.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the October 23, 2024, meeting and Council Member Brinker made a second. Motion
carried, 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2024-O-12 – Text Amendment for Fences in Front Yards – 2 nd
Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-O-12 which allows four foot tall
fences in front yards on lots that are three plus acres and have frontage along
an arterial or collector road, within the R-CVS (Residential Conventional
Subdivision), R-LLS (Residential Large Lot Subdivision) and R-RE (Residential
Rural Estate) zones. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-O-12 a second
reading and stated PDS staff gave their recommendation after the Kenton County
Planning Commission hearing on September 5, 2024.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2024-O-12 and
Council Member Steffen made a second. Motion carried, 5-0.
Ordinance No. 2024-O-13 – Text Amendment for Medical Cannabis – 2 nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2024-O-13 which allows medical
cannabis cultivation, processing, producing and safety compliance facilities as
permitted uses within the SI (Suburban Industrial) zone, to allow medical
cannabis dispensaries as a permitted use within the RC (Rural Commercial), NC
(Neighborhood Commercial), CC (Community Commercial) and SI (Suburban
Industrial) zones. Mayor Reinersman stated that council voted for the issue to
be on the ballot and it passed. Attorney Gatlin gave Ordinance No. 2024-O-13 a
second reading and stated PDS staff gave their recommendation after the Kenton
County Planning Commission hearing on August 1, 2024.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-16 and
Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion carried, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2024-R-16 – Proposed Text Amendment to Driveway Setbacks
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-17 which sponsors a text
amendment to update. Mr. Moriconi stated prior to Z21, the code had two feet
setbacks for driveways and the amendment would be changing it back to two feet
setbacks as it was previously.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-17.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-16 and
Council Member Vogelpohl made a second. Roll was called and votes were
unanimous. Motion carried, 5-0.
Resolution No. 2024-R-17 – Proposed Text Amendment to Parking and Loading
Standards
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2024-R-17 which sponsors a text
amendment to update parking and loading standards in regards to shipping
containers and portable storage units.
Al Daly, currently serves on the Code Enforcement Board, stated there have been
some shipping containers on residential properties but there was nothing in the
code to enforce a violation.
There was some discussion amongst council regarding limiting storage containers
to 14 days as well as possibly not allowing at all in residential zones.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-17.
Council Member Steffen made a motion to approve Resolution No. 2024-R-16 and
Council Member Shafer made a second. Roll was called and Council Members
Brinker and Franzen were opposed. Motion carried, 3-2.
Executive Order No. 2024-EO-02 – Re-appointment of Tom Brinker to the TBNK
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2024-EO-02 which re-appoints
Council Member Tom Brinker to serve another two-year term on the
Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated he had a resident reach out regarding putting a “NO THROUGH
TRUCKS” sign on Stevens Road from Taylor Mill Road to Fowler Creek Road.
Attorney Gatlin stated council would need to pass an ordinance to allow a
signage.
Mayor Reinersman stated there is a council need for council to go into
executive session in accordance with K.R.S. 61.810(b) related to real estate.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to go into executive session and Council
Member Steffen made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0. Council went
into executive session at 8:10 p.m.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to enter back into regular session.
Council Member Shafer made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 5-0. Council
returned to regular session at 9:37 p.m.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Vogelpohl to adjourn. Motion carried with all
ayes and the meeting ended at 9:37 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
December 2, 2024
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of December 2, 2024                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, December
2, 2024 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Carol Franzen,
Dave Shafer, Greg Steffen and Greg Waite. Council Members Brinker and Vogelpohl
were absent. Also present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk
Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Life Saving Award and Proclamation
Mayor Reinersman presented a Life Saving award to Officer Ryan Jones in his
steadfast action in the incident of a critical injury to a child in August
2024.
Mayor Reinersman presented a Proclamation to the first responders that were at
the scene of the accident that occurred on August 7, 2024, which saved the life
of a little girl involved in a serious accident.
Parks and Recreation Awards
Mayor Reinersman recognized Program Coordinator Arron Cope, as she was
recognized by the state for the Outstanding Department of the Year by the
Kentucky Recreation and Park Society in 2024. He stated Dianna Kloeker of
Jude's Custom Exhaust Auto Repair & Towing was awarded a Special Citation for
her outstanding contribution to the Parks and Recreation department. Mayor
Reinersman also recognized Dianna Kloeker with a key to the city as well for
all her volunteer efforts over the years with city events.
Key to the City – Dave Shafer
Mayor Reinersman presented a key to the city to outgoing Council Member Shafer
for his years of service on city council.
Presentation of Audit
Auditor John Chamberlin, from Chamberlin Owen presented the audit for the
fiscal year ending on June 30, 2024. He stated there were no material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal controls as well as no
instances of non-compliance with laws and grant or bond agreements. Mr.
Chamberlin stated there has been a significant drop in liabilities due to
allocating ARPA funds and pension funds.
Approval of the November 11, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
November 11, 2024.
Council Member Shafer made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the November 11, 2024, meeting and Council Member Steffen made a second. Motion
carried, 4-0.
Proposed ordinance – Stephenson Road Truck Restrictions – 1 st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which restricts certain traffic
in excess of 11,000 pounds on Stephens Road at a point from Fowler Creek (State
Route1486) to Oliver Road. There was some discussion regarding the
implementation of a permit and violators would be subject to a city citation.
Mayor Reinersman stated there would be exceptions for public safety, garbage
trucks and school buses. Council agreed to add signs for violators of the
weight limit to receive a city citation for infractions with $500 for first
offense and $750 for each incident thereafter.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Executive Order No. 2024-EO-03 – Appointment for the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2024-EO-03 which appoints Chris
Barbour to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board from January 1, 2025
through December 31, 2027.
Executive Order No. 2024-EO-04 – Appointment for the PDS Council
Mayor Reinersman presented Executive Order No. 2024-EO-04 which re-appoints
Mayor Reinersman as the primary representative and Council Member Carol Franzen
as the alternate on the Planning and Development Services Council for the city
for 2025.
Award Bid – Concrete Finishing Contract for 2025
Chris Moriconi stated we received five bids for the concrete finishing contract
for 2025. He suggested Boles Concrete be awarded the bid as they not only have
the lowest price in each category, but they also have a good history with the
city.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to award the 2025 concrete finishing
contract to Boles Concrete. Council Member Wait made a second. Motion carried,
4-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated SD1 is working on some re-engineering on the sewer project
for Peach Drive, Allen Drive, Walnut Hall and part of Madison Pike. He stated
there is a grant to cover the lateral pipe as well as the connection to each of
the homes. Mr. Moriconi stated the pickleball court lighting issues should be
fixed soon at Memorial Park.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated the Christmas Walk is happening this upcoming weekend
with the added ice-skating rink which will be open on Friday, Saturday and
Sunday. He stated the Santa 5K kicks off Saturday, crafts at the Christmas
Market at the Courthouse, tree lighting, parade and main festivities from 6:00
to 9:00 p.m. as well as a new event Selfies with Santa on Sunday afternoon.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Shafer and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 8:23 p.m.
                  _____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
__________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
2025 Minutes
February 3, 2025
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of February 3, 2025                  City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, February
3, 2025 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal
Center, 5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher
Reinersman presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Steffen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker,
Matthew Fehler, Carol Franzen, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite, Chris Vogelpohl. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney
Jack Gatlin and Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the December 2, 2024 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
December 2, 2024.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes
for the December 2, 2024, meeting and Council Member Brinker made a second.
Motion carried, 5-0. Council Member Fehler abstained.
Swearing in of Officer Cody Monson
Mayor Reinersman swore in new Police Officer Cody Monson, who was previously
with the Covington Police Department.
Introduction of Police Social Worker
Mayor Reinersman introduced the new Police Social Worker Taylor Graham. He
stated she has been a social worker with the Cabinet for Health and Family
Services for the past six years.
Ordinance No. 2025-O-01 – Stephens Road Truck Restrictions – 2 nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2025-O-01 which restricts vehicles in
excess of 11,000 pounds on Stephens Road at a point from Fowler Creek (State
Route1486) to Oliver Road. He stated motor vehicles or trucks having a width
greater than seen feet may not travel on Stephens Road and public safety
vehicles, school buses and garbage trucks are exempt from this restriction.
Mayor Reinersman stated for violations, there will be a city citation for $500
for first offense and $750 for second and subsequent offense.
Attorney Gatlin read Ordinance No. 2025-O-01.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2025-O-01.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve, with a second from Council
Member Steffen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried,
6-0.
Resolution No. 2025-R-01 – Approval for Courthouse Crossing Signage
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-01 which approves the final
development plan for the construction of a six-foot tall, detached sign for the
Courthouse Crossing. He stated PDS Staff gave the plan a favorable
recommendation.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-01.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-01.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve, and Council Member Brinker made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2025-R-02 – Interlocal Agreement for Drone Program
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-02 which approves an
interlocal agreement for operation of a drone program with the Kenton County
Sheriff’s Office and Marc Fields, Kenton County Jailer. Chief Ferayorni stated
the cost of the drone is approximately $20,000 and will be split 50/50 with the
Kenton County Sheriff’s Office.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-02.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-02.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve, and Council Member Franzen
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2025-R-03 – Approval of Final Development Plan – Bristow Rd
Townhomes
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-03 which authorizes and
approves a final development plan for clearing and grading for future
development of the Bristow Road Townhome Development within the Beechgrove
Planned Unit Development (PUD). Mr. Moriconi stated this development goes back
to 1971 which was known as Villages of Beechgrove and included 1,500 total
units of housing.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-03.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-03.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve, and Council Member Vogelpohl
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2025-R-04 – Opposition of Centralized Collection of Occupational
Licenses
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-04 which opposes any action by
the Kentucky General Assembly that provides the centralized collection of legal
occupational business fees and taxes by the Commonwealth of Kentucky. He stated
if this process went to Frankfort, it’s likely the city wouldn’t get the full
fees and would lose the local control.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-04.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-04.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve, and Council Brinker made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Proposed Ordinance – Renaming of Court Street – 1 st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance renaming Court Street to Ponzer
Court. He stated that Vic Ponzer was a long-time Independence resident,
business owner and Kenton County Deputy Sheriff.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading.
Municipal Order No. 2025-MO-01 – Surplus Property – Treadmills
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2025-MO-01 which declares two
Landice L8 Treadmills. He stated the treadmills are several years old and have
been replaced with new models to better serve the fitness needs of the police
department and city staff. Mayor Reinersman stated the treadmills will be
listed for sale on www.govdeals.com.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2025-MO-01.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve, and Council Member Steffen made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report – Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated there is an uptick in foreclosures and bankruptcies in
the city.
City Administrator’s Report
Mr. Moriconi stated during this month’s Kenton County Planning Commission
meeting, they will be discussing driveway setbacks and the definition of a
shipping container.
Mayor’s Report
Mayor Reinersman stated our Public Services department did a great job keeping
streets clean with the 10 inches of snow we got in early January. He stated the
South Kenton County project is in unincorporated county and not in the city.
Mayor Reinersman stated the transportation cabinet is considering a possible
future traffic interchange off Maher Road. He stated there are two sites being
considered for the splash park location at Memorial Park.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:56 p.m.
_____________________________________
                   Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
________________________________________
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
March 3, 2025
COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 3, 2025   City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City of Independence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 3,
2025 at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the meeting to order and led the Pledge of
Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was called and the
following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker, Matthew Fehler,
Carol Franzen, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite, Chris Vogelpohl. Also present was City
Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney Jack Gatlin and
Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Approval of the February 3, 2025 Council Meeting Minutes
Mayor Reinersman asked Council if there were any changes or corrections they
would like made to the council meeting minutes for the regular meeting held on
February 3, 2025.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve the council meeting minutes for
the February 3, 2025, meeting and Council Member Franzen made a second. Motion
carried, 6-0.
Ordinance No. 2025-0-02 - Renaming of Court Street - 2nd Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented Ordinance No. 2025-0-02 which renames Court Street
to Ponzer Court. He stated this street name change is to honor resident Vic
Ponzer for his contributions to the city.
Attorney Gatlin read Ordinance No. 2025-0-02.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Ordinance No. 2025-0-02.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve, with a second from Coru1cil
Member Steffen. Roll was called and the votes were unanimous. Motion carried,
6-0.
Mayor's Report
Mayor Reinersman stated he is keeping an eye on several bills that threaten
local control. He stated Representative Dunn has been great to work with as
well as Representative Moser for years. Mayor Reinersman stated there are
various proposed bills that are threatening to take away local control from
cities regarding items such as affordable housing, rental registry, short term
rentals, etc.
Proposed Ordinance - Driveway Requirements and Shipping Container Definition -
1st Reading
Mayor Reinersman presented a proposed ordinance which amends the zoning code
adding setback requirements for driveways as a permitted encroachment, adding
standards for portable storage units and shipping containers and adding the
definition of a shipping container.
Attorney Gatlin gave the proposed ordinance a first reading and stated the PDS
Staff gave a favorable recommendation after the public hearing on February 6,
2025.
Ben Bach, I0112 Meadow Glen Drive, Independence, KY - Mr. Bach asked what
prompted this change and the Mayor stated there have been some citations issued
by code enforcement and it was discovered there wasn't a definition of a
shipping container so it needed to be defined so the zoning code was clear.
Resolution No. 2025-R-05-Authorization for Contract Extension for Trash and
Recycling 
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-05 which approves and
authorizes the Mayor to execute an extension of the previously bid fees for
trash and recycling services for residential units in the city from July I,
2025 through June 30, 2027.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-05.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-05.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve, and Council Member Brinker
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2025-R-06- Opposition of HB85 Relating to Sanitation Districts
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-06 which opposes House Bill
85, relating to sanitation districts. He stated this bill would remove the fee
to have SDI manage storm water within the city.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-06.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-06.
Council Member Steffen made a motion to approve, and Council Waite made a
second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2025-R-07-Opposition of House and Senate Bills That Would Remove
Local Control
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-07 which opposes Senate Bills
18 and 110 as well as House Bills 134,173,253,490 and 806. He stated these
proposed bills would all remove local control for cities on local issues.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-07.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-07.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve, and Council Member Brinker
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2025-R-08- Waters of the Commonwealth
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-08 which opposes SB89 which
would remove protection for groundwater drinking sources and wells and
eliminate prohibition on dumping, filing or releasing pollutants in streams.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-08.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-08.
Council Member Fehler made a motion to approve, and Council Member Steffen made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Municipal Order No. 2025-MO-02- Surplus Property- Police Vehicles
Mayor Reinersman presented Municipal Order No. 2025-MO-02 which declares a 2010
Dodge Charger, two 2013 Dodge Chargers, a 2014 Dodge Charger and a 2014 Ford
Explorer as surplus property. Mayor Reinersman stated the vehicles will be
listed for sale on www.govdeals.com.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Municipal Order No. 2025-MO-02.
Council Member Waite made a motion to approve, and Council Member Vogelpohl
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Attorney Report - Jack Gatlin
Attorney Gatlin stated he had nothing to report.
City Administrator's Report
Mr. Moriconi stated there is a SDI project on Peach, Alvin and Walnut Hall,
construction should start this summer.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Waite and
seconded by Council Member Franzen to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes and
the meeting ended at 7:51 p.m.
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
March 19, 2025
SPECIAL COUNCIL MEETING
Minutes of March 19, 2025   City of Independence, Ky.
Opening
The City Council of the City oflndependence, Kentucky met on Monday, March 19,
2025 at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the Independence Municipal Center,
5409 Madison Pike, Independence, Kentucky with Mayor Christopher Reinersman
presiding. Mayor Reinersman called the special meeting to order and led the
Pledge of Allegiance. Council Member Franzen led the invocation. Roll was
called and the following Council Members registered present: Tom Brinker,
Matthew Fehler, Carol Franzen, Greg Steffen, Greg Waite, Chris Vogelpohl. Also
present was City Administrator Chris Moriconi, City Clerk Gina Rawe, Attorney
Jack Gatlin and Chief Brian Ferayorni.
Resolution No. 2025-R-09 - Authorization for Crumb Rubber Mulch Grant
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-09 which authorizes the Mayor
to execute all documents needed to apply for a rubber crumb mulch grant. He
stated the grant would be for replacement of the crumb rubber mulch with rubber
poured in place safety surface at Memorial park. Mayor Reinersman stated the
grant is for 75% cost with 25% responsibility of the city.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-09.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-09.
Council Member Vogelpohl made a motion to approve, and Council Member Franzen
made a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Resolution No. 2025-R-10-Authorization for Sewer Easements on Peach Drive
Mayor Reinersman presented Resolution No. 2025-R-l 0 which authorizes the Mayor
to execute all documents related to temporary and permanent sewer easements at
25 and 27 Peach Drive, which is owned by the city. He stated there is a grant
the takes care of the cost for property owners to tie into sewer system with
SD1. Mayor Reinersman stated there are several documents required such as
temporary construction easement for storm sewer, easement for sewer and a site
access agreement.
Attorney Gatlin read Resolution No. 2025-R-l 0.
Mayor Reinersman called for a motion to approve Resolution No. 2025-R-l 0.
Council Member Franzen made a motion to approve, and Council Member Waite made
a second. Motion carried with all ayes, 6-0.
Adjournment
There being no further business, a motion was made by Council Member Franzen
and seconded by Council Member Waite to adjourn. Motion carried with all ayes
and the meeting ended at 6:17 p.m.
Christopher J. Reinersman, Mayor
ATTEST:
Gina Rawe, City Clerk
