BOUNDARY COUNTY, IDAHO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2026-1, passed 2-10-2026
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Maintenance of county code
   
10.05   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.06   Public utility ordinances
   
10.07   Saving clause
   
10.08   General constructional rule
   
10.09   Plural and singular words
   
10.10   Masculine and feminine gender
   
10.11   Priority of ordinance
   
10.12   Definitions
   
10.13   Captions
   
10.14   Severability
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   This codification of the general ordinances of the County of Boundary is
declared to be the official code of ordinances of the County of Boundary.
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   Any official copy of the code shall be received without further proof in all
courts and in all administrative tribunals of the state.
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Any ordinance amending the code shall set forth the title, chapter,
and section number of the section or sections to be amended. All such
ordinances shall comply with the provisions of the code and Idaho Code § 50-9,
regarding passage, execution, and publication of ordinances.
   (B)   All such amendments shall be promptly forwarded to the codifiers by
the County Clerk, and such ordinance shall be promptly published and inserted
in its proper place in each copy of the county code.
§ 10.04 MAINTENANCE OF COUNTY CODE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of each published ordinance from the codifiers, the
County Clerk shall promptly forward a copy of each page thereof to each person
having an official copy of the county code.
   (B)   The County Clerk may collect a fee for each copy of the county code
and an annual fee for maintenance thereof; provided, that such fees shall be
established by resolution or ordinance duly passed by the Board of County
Commissioners.
§ 10.05 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the county are hereby repealed, except as herein
specifically preserved or are, by implication, reserved from repeal, subject to
the saving clauses herein contained, excluding, without limitation, the special
ordinances relating to the following subjects: tax levies; appropriation of
public moneys; boundaries and annexations; franchises; ordinances granting
special rights to persons or correspondence; contracts; issuance of warrants;
public salaries; ordinances establishing name or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement districts; bonds; local elections; the sale or
exchange of real estate; sign ordinances; economic development; urban renewal;
public utilities; zoning; and all special ordinances of any kind, except for
those provisions in such special ordinances which the code expressly amends.
§ 10.06 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance or section thereof relating to railroad or railroad crossings
of streets and other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service,
or rates of public utilities, shall be repealed by the adoption of the code or
by §
10.05, except as this code specifically provides for such repeal.
§ 10.07 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Any ordinance amending or repealing any section of the code shall not be
deemed or construed to abate any pending action based upon such amended or
repealed section, nor shall the passage of such ordinance prevent the arrest,
prosecution, and punishment of any violation of such section committed prior to
the effective date of such ordinance.
§ 10.08 GENERAL CONSTRUCTIONAL RULE.
   Except as expressly stated in the code, all words shall have their ordinary,
generally accepted meaning.
§ 10.09 PLURAL AND SINGULAR WORDS.
   Whenever any word in the code is used in either the singular or in the
plural form, then such word shall be deemed to include both the plural and
singular forms of such word, unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.10 MASCULINE AND FEMININE GENDER.
   When any person is referred to in any section of the code by use of the
masculine gender, then such reference shall be deemed to include the feminine
gender unless the context indicates an intent otherwise.
§ 10.11 PRIORITY OF ORDINANCE.
   In the event of any discrepancy or conflict between the code and any
ordinance passing or amending the same section of the code, then the provisions
of the ordinance shall prevail.
§ 10.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the County of Boundary, Idaho.
   COUNTY. The County of Boundary, Idaho.
   CRIME. An act in violation of this code.
   FELONY. A crime as defined under Idaho Code § 18-111.
   IDAPA. Idaho Administrative Regulations. A numbering designation for all
administrative rules in the state which denotes rules promulgated in accordance
with the State Administrative Procedure Act, being Idaho Code § 67-5201 through
67-5292.
   INFRACTION. A civil public offense, not constituting a crime, which is
punishable only by a penalty not exceeding $100 and for which no incarceration
may be imposed.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, trade,
profession, or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR. Every crime, except a felony.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or
land, whether alone or with others.
   OFFENSE. A crime or other violation of this code.
   OPERATOR. The person who is generally in charge of or responsible for
conducting any business, profession or enterprise.
   OWNER. Any person owning real or personal property, including any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, remainderman, or person
holding a life estate or reversionary interest of any kind.
   PERSON. A human being and any public or private corporation, firm,
partnership, trust, estate, sole proprietorship, association, organization,
government, or any other entity recognized under state law.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Money, goods, chattels, effects, rights in action, and
all written instruments evidencing any pecuniary obligation.
   PROSECUTOR. The Prosecuting Attorney of Boundary County.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE. The State of Idaho.
   STREET. All public roads, ways, alleys, and rights-of-way used for the
movement of vehicular traffic, including any public sidewalks adjacent thereto.
   TENANT. Any person who occupies any building or real property for a
consideration to the owner.
§ 10.13 CAPTIONS.
   The captions and titles used at the commencement of each section or division
of the code are used only to indicate the content of the section and shall not
limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the
provisions thereafter.
§ 10.14 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this code are hereby declared to be severable and if any
provision of this code or the application of such provision to any person or
circumstance is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor penalty. Whenever any act or omission constitutes a crime
not constituting a felony or infraction and no specific penalty is stated in
the code, such crime shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $300 or by
imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment for any single violation.
   (B)   Infractions. Whenever any person commits an infraction and no specific
penalty is provided for such act, such person shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $100 and no imprisonment may be imposed.
   (C)   Applicability of penalty. The penalties provided in this section shall
be applied as though they were a part of every separate section of the code.
   (D)   Multiple violations. Whenever the same person violates the same
section of the code on two or more days, then each violation on each day shall
be deemed a separate offense and shall be separately punishable for each such
offense.
   (E)   Prosecutorial discretion. Whenever the same offense, act or omission
is punishable under different sections of the code, the county may elect under
which section to proceed; but no more than one sentence of imprisonment may be
imposed against the same person for the same offense; provided, that revocation
of a license or permit shall not be considered a penalty so as to bar
imposition of a penalty under the code.
   (F)   Penalty against officers. The penalty provisions of this section shall
not apply to any section of the code which designates the duties of any officer
or employee of the county unless the intention to impose a fine or penalty is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARDS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   PETITIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: BOARDS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of County Commissioners
   
30.01   Regular meeting days
Industrial Development Corporation
   
30.15   Definitions
   
30.16   Industrial Development Corporation
   
30.17   Charter
   
30.18   Board of Directors
   
30.19   Financial interest prohibited
   
30.20   Powers
   
30.21   Liability
   
30.22   Net earnings
**** BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS ****
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETING DAYS.
   Unless otherwise a legal holiday, the Board of County Commissioners will
meet at the courthouse in regular session each Monday and Tuesday from 9:00
a.m. until 12:00 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. or until all business
before them has been addressed beginning on January 14, 2013.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-19-2013)
**** INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION ****
§ 30.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Idaho Code § 50-27.
   BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors of the public corporation.
   CORPORATION. The Industrial Development Corporation of the county.
   COUNTY. The County of Boundary, Idaho.
   FACILITIES. Land, rights in land, buildings, structures, docks, wharves,
machinery, transmission equipment, landscaping, utilities, approaches, roadways
and parking, handling and storage areas, and similar ancillary facilities.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITY or INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FACILITIES.
Manufacturing, processing, production, assembly, warehousing, solid waste
disposal, recreation and energy facilities, excluding facilities to transmit,
distribute, or produce electrical energy.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 30.16 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION.
   (A)   The county does hereby create a public corporation to carry out the
purpose of Idaho Code § 50-27 (the “Act”), as the law may from time to time
hereinafter be amended.
   (B)   The name of the public corporation shall be “The Industrial
Development Corporation of Boundary County, Idaho” (the “Corporation”).
   (C)   The Corporation shall have all the powers and be subject to all of the
limitations and provisions contained in the Act, as the law may hereinafter
from time to time be amended.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 30.17 CHARTER.
   A charter shall be issued to the Corporation by the Board of County
Commissioners, which shall grant to the Corporation authority to act pursuant
to the Act. A copy of the initial charter to be issued is attached to this
codified ordinance marked Exhibit “A.” Said charter may be amended from time to
time by the Board of County Commissioners, as constituted from time to time. A
majority of the members of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 30.18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be composed of those
members of the Board of County Commissioners as constituted from time to time
and those members appointed by the Board of County Commissioners. A majority of
the members of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   (1)   The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted and carried
out by the Board of Directors. The Board shall elect among its own members a
President, a Vice President, a Treasurer, and a Secretary, one of whom shall be
eligible to hold two offices. The Board of Directors shall adopt bylaws (rules
and regulations) governing the conduct of the Corporation.
      (2)   Members of the Board of Directors shall serve with such
compensation as may be provided in the bylaws to be adopted by the Board of
Directors.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 30.19 FINANCIAL INTEREST PROHIBITED.
   No director, officer, agent, or employee of the Corporation shall have
directly or indirectly any financial interest in any property to be included in
or any contract for property, service, or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with any industrial development facilities financed through the
Corporation.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 30.20 POWERS.
   The Corporation shall have all the powers granted by, as well as limited by,
the Act and shall include the following:
   (A)   To construct and maintain one or more industrial development
facilities;
   (B)   To lease to a lessee all or any part of any Industrial Development
Facility for such rentals and upon such terms and condition, including options
to purchase, as its Board of Directors considers advisable and not in conflict
with the Act;
   (C)   To sell by installment contract or otherwise and convey all or any
part of any industrial development facility for such purchase price and upon
such terms and conditions as its Board of Directors considers advisable, which
are not in conflict with the Act;
   (D)   To make loans for the purpose of providing temporary or permanent
financing or refinancing of all or part of the project costs for any industrial
development facility, including the refunding of any outstanding obligations,
mortgages, or advances issued, made, or given by any person for the project
costs; and to charge and collect interest on the loans for the loan payments
upon such terms and conditions as its Board of Directors considers advisable
which are not in conflict with the Act;
   (E)   To issue revenue bonds for the purpose of financing all or part of the
project cost of any industrial development facility and to secure the payment
of the revenue bonds as provided in the Act;
   (F)   Add security for the payment of the principal and interest on any
revenue bonds issued for any agreements made in connection therewith, to
mortgage, pledge, or otherwise encumber any or all of its industrial
development facilities or any part or parts thereof, whether then owned or
thereafter acquired, and to assign any lease or mortgage and repledge any
security conveyed to the Corporation, to secure any loan made by the
Corporation, and to pledge the revenues and receipts therefrom;
   (G)   To sue and be sued, complain, and defend in its corporate name;
   (H)   To make contracts and to execute all instruments necessary or
convenient for the carrying out of its business;
   (I)   To have a corporate seal and to use the same by causing it, or a
facsimile thereof, to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner
reproduced;
   (J)   Subject to the limitations of Idaho Code § 50-2706, to borrow money,
accept grants from, or contracts with any local, state, or federal governmental
agency or with any financial, public, or private corporation;
   (K)   To make and alter bylaws not inconsistent with its charter for the
administration and regulation of the affairs of the Corporation;
   (L)   To collect fees or charges from users or prospective users of
industrial development facilities to recover actual or anticipated
administrative costs;
   (M)   To execute financing documents incidental to the powers enumerated in
this section;
   (N)   The Corporation created under this subchapter may not operate any
industrial development facilities as a business other than as lessor, seller,
or lender. The purpose and holding of mortgages, deeds of trust, or other
security interests and contracting from any servicing thereof is not considered
the operation of any industrial development facility;
   (O)   The Corporation created by this subchapter may not exercise any of the
powers authorized in this section or issue any revenue bonds with respect to
any industrial development facility unless the industrial development facility
is located wholly within the boundaries of the county;
   (P)   The county may not give or lend any money or property nor exercise its
power of eminent domain in aid of the Corporation. This provision shall not
preclude the county from dealing with the Corporation on an arms-length basis;
and
   (Q)   The Corporation may not issue revenue obligations except upon approval
of the county, and upon approval of the city within whose planning jurisdiction
the proposed industrial development facility lies.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 30.21 LIABILITY.
   Every person who was or is a party, or is threatened to be made a party to,
or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative, or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she or a
person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or
officer of the Corporation, or officer of another corporation, or as its
representative in a partnership joint venture, trust, or other enterprise,
shall be indemnified and held harmless to the fullest extent legally
permissible under the law of the state from time to time against all expense,
liability, and loss (including attorneys’ fees, judgments, fines, and amounts
paid or to be paid in settlement), reasonably incurred or suffered by him or
her in connection therewith. Such rights of indemnification shall be a contract
right which may be enforced in any manner desired by such person. Such right of
indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other right which such directors,
officers, or representatives may have or thereafter acquire, and without
limiting the generality of such statement, they shall be entitled to their
respective rights of indemnification under any bylaw, agreement, vote of
stockholders, provision of law, or otherwise, as well as their rights under
this section. The Board of Directors may adopt bylaws from time to time with
respect to indemnification to provide at all times the fullest indemnification
permitted by laws of the state, and may cause the Corporation to purchase and
maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer
of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation, or as its
representative in a partnership, joint venture, trust, or other enterprise,
against any liability asserted against such person and incurred in any such
capacity or arising out of such status, whether or not the Corporation would
have the power to indemnify such person.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 30.22 NET EARNINGS.
   Any net earnings of the Corporation, beyond those necessary for retirement
of indebtedness incurred by it, shall inure to the county and not for the
benefit of any other person. Alteration of the charter of or dissolution of or
audits of the Corporation shall be provided by the Act and by subsequent
ordinances of the county. Upon dissolution of the Corporation, title to all
property owned by the Corporation shall vest in the county.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 9-27-2004)
CHAPTER 31: PETITIONS
Section
   
31.01   Creation of right
   
31.02   Number of petitioners required
   
31.03   Form of petition
   
31.04   Time for filing petitions
   
31.05   Printing of petition and sheets for signatures; time limits for
perfecting petition
   
31.06   Verification on sheets for signatures
   
31.07   Examination and certification of signatures
   
31.08   Sufficiency of petition; notification; effect of the Board of County
Commissioners; action; election
   
31.09   Form of ballot
   
31.10   Conduct of election
   
31.11   Canvass of returns
   
31.12   Prohibited acts
   
31.13   Limitation
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 CREATION OF RIGHT.
   The people of the county shall have the right to enact ordinances through
the initiative process, and to repeal ordinances through the referendum
process, according to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.02 NUMBER OF PETITIONERS REQUIRED.
   To enact an ordinance by initiative or to repeal an ordinance by referendum,
there shall be attached to the petition the signatures of legal voters of the
county equal to at least 20% of the total number of voters registered to vote
at the last general election in the county.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.03 FORM OF PETITION.
   (A)   The initiative petition shall be in substantially the following form.
 
Initiative Petition to the Board of Boundary County Commissioners of Boundary
County, Idaho: “We, the undersigned citizens and legal voters of Boundary
County, respectfully demand that the following proposed ordinance, to-wit: (set
out full text of measure proposed) shall be submitted to the legal voters at an
election to be called in accordance with Idaho Code § 34-18, and each for
himself or herself says: I have personally signed this petition; I am a legal
voter of Boundary County; my residence and post office are correctly written
after my name.”
Name_________________ Street and Number ___________________ City and Post
Office ___________________________________
(Here follow numbered lines for signature)
 
   (B)   The petition for referendum on any ordinance passed by the Board of
County Commissioners shall be in substantially the same form with appropriate
title and changes, setting out in full the text of the ordinance to be referred
to the people for their approval or rejection.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.04 TIME FOR FILING PETITIONS.
   Referendum petitions with the requisite number of signatures attached shall
be filed with the County Clerk not less than 60 days following the final
adoption of the ordinance to be subject to referendum.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.05 PRINTING OF PETITION AND SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES; TIME LIMITS FOR
PERFECTING PETITION.
   (A)   Before or at the time of beginning to circulate any petition for
initiative or referendum, the person or persons, organization or organizations
under whose authority the petition is to be circulated, shall send or deliver
to the County Clerk a copy of the petition duly signed by at least 20 electors
eligible to sign such petition. The County Clerk shall immediately examine the
petition and specify the form and kind and size of paper on which the petition
shall be printed and circulated for further signatures. All petitions and
sheets for signatures shall be printed on a good quality bond or ledger paper,
on pages eight and one-half inches in width by 13 inches in length, with a
margin of one and three-fourths inch at the top for binding, and the sheets for
signatures shall have numbered lines thereon from one to 20 for signatures. The
petition shall be prepared in sections, with each section numbered
consecutively. Each section of a petition must have a printed copy of the
petition as the first page, and each section shall have attached to it no more
than ten sheets for signatures.
   (B)   The County Clerk shall indicate in writing on the petition that it is
approved as to form, the County Clerk shall inform the person or persons,
organization or organizations under whose authority the petition is to be
circulated, in writing, that the petition must be perfected with the required
number of certified signatures within 60 days following the date of approval as
to form. Any petition not perfected with the required number of certified
signatures within the 60 days allowed shall be declared null and void ab initio
in its entirety.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.06 VERIFICATION ON SHEETS FOR SIGNATURES.
   Each signature sheet of each petition containing signatures shall be
verified in substantially the following form by the person who circulated said
sheet of the petition, by his or her affidavit hereon, as a part thereof.
 
STATE OF IDAHO:
               ss.
County of Boundary:
I, ______________________, swear, under penalty of perjury, that every person who signed this sheet of the
foregoing petition signed his or her name thereto in my presence. I believe that each has stated his or her
name and the accompanying required information on the signature sheet correctly, and that the person was
eligible to sign this petition.
Signature ________________________
Post Office Address __________________________
Subscribed and sworn to before me this _________ day of ____________________, 20__.
                                 Notary Public ____________________________
(Notary Seal)      Residing at _______________________________
 
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.07 EXAMINATION AND CERTIFICATION OF SIGNATURES.
   (A)   All petitions with attached signature sheets shall be presented on the
same day to the County Clerk, who shall make a cursory examination of them to
determine whether the petitions apparently contain the necessary number of
signatures.
      (1)   If the total number of signatures on the petition is not sufficient
to satisfy the number required by §
31.02, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be retained by the
County Clerk who shall notify in writing the person filing the petition of the
number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered, if within
the time limit of §
31.05.
      (2)   If the cursory examination of the signature sheets reveals:
         (a)   Erasures on any signature;
         (b)   Illegible or undecipherable signatures;
         (c)   Signatures not properly identified by all of the information
required on the sheet;
         (d)   Duplicate signatures; or
         (e)   Signatures of persons who have requested in writing to have his,
her, or their names removed from the petition, the County Clerk shall summarily
reject such signatures and they shall not be counted.
      (3)   Each rejected signature shall be drawn through with ink and
initialed by the County Clerk. If the total number of signatures not rejected
is not sufficient to satisfy the number required by §
31.02, all petitions with attached signature sheets shall be retained by the
County Clerk who shall notify in writing the person filing the petition of the
number of signatures needed, and further signatures may be gathered, if within
the time limit of §
31.05.
   (B)   All petitions presented to the County Clerk found to apparently
contain the necessary number of signatures, after the cursory examination
provided for above, shall be filed with the County Clerk and become public
records of the county not to be returned. The County Clerk shall examine each
such signature purported to be that of a registered elector of the county, and
compare each such signature with the registration documents available to the
County Clerk. The County Clerk shall summarily reject and not count all
signatures which are not the signatures of a registered elector of the county.
Rejected signatures shall be drawn through with ink and initialed by the County
Clerk. The County Clerk may take up to, but not more than, ten days after
filing of the petition to complete this examination. The County Clerk shall
certify each signature found to comply with all of the requirements of this
chapter by an appropriate mark following each signature.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall total the number of certified signatures, and
if found to total the number of signatures required by §
31.02, shall proceed as provided in §
31.05.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.08 SUFFICIENCY OF PETITION; NOTIFICATION; EFFECT OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS; ACTION; ELECTION.
   (A)   In the event a petition filed with the County Clerk does not contain
the required number of certified signatures, the County Clerk shall inform the
person or organization under whose authority the petition was circulated that
the petition is defective for lack of certified signatures, and specify the
number of additional signatures required to make the petition valid. The
petition must be perfected within 30 days of the date the County Clerk finds
the petition defective for lack of certified signatures. If the petition is not
perfected within the 30-day period, the County Clerk shall declare the petition
null and void ab initio in its entirety.
   (B)   In the event a petition filed with the County Clerk is found by the
County Clerk to contain the required number of certified signatures, the County
Clerk shall promptly, by certified mail, inform the petitioners and shall also
notify the Board of County Commissioners at its next meeting, that the
initiative or referendum petition is in proper form.
      (1)   If the petition is for a referendum, the Board of County
Commissioners shall have 30 days from the date of certification of the petition
to repeal the ordinance being referred to the voters. In the event the Board of
County Commissioners repeal the ordinance, the referendum petition shall be
declared null and void.
      (2)   If the petition is an initiative petition, the Board of County
Commissioners shall have 30 days to pass an ordinance substantially as proposed
by the petition. In the event the Board of County Commissioners pass such an
ordinance, the initiative petition shall be null and void.
      (3)   In the event the Board of County Commissioners neither repeal the
ordinance which is the subject of a referendum petition, nor enact an ordinance
which is the subject of an initiative petition, an election shall be ordered by
the County Clerk to be conducted county-wide. A special election for initiative
or referendum shall be provided not more than 90 days following the
certification of the petition, provided that in the event a county election
will occur within the 90 days, the initiative or referendum shall be submitted
at the time of the county election.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.09 FORM OF BALLOT.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall prepare a ballot for an initiative
or referendum election in one of the following ways:
   (A)   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon does not exceed 100 words in length, it may be set out in full on the
election ballot; or
   (B)   If the full text of the ordinance or proposed ordinance to be voted
upon exceeds 100 words in length, and the Board of County Commissioners vote
not to have it printed at length on the election ballot, they shall prepare a
short title and description of the ordinance or proposed ordinance which shall
clearly and impartially state its purpose and effect, which short title and
description shall be printed on the election ballot.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.10 CONDUCT OF ELECTION.
   Initiative or referendum elections, whether special or general, shall be
conducted and the results thereof canvassed and certified in all respects as
near as practicable, in like manner as general elections, except as otherwise
provided.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.11 CANVASS OF RETURNS.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall meet within five days after said
election to canvass the votes and the County Clerk shall immediately announce
the results. Any initiative measure approved by a majority of the votes cast
shall be in full force and effect from the date of such announcement. Any
referendum measure for which a majority of the votes were cast in favor of
repealing an ordinance shall be effective on the date of such announcement.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.12 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts are prohibited:
   (A)   Signs any name other than his or her own to any initiative or
referendum petition;
   (B)   Knowingly signs his or her name to any initiative or referendum
petition if he or she is not a registered county elector;
   (C)   Willfully or knowingly circulates, publishes, or exhibits any false
statement or representation concerning the contents, purport, or effect of any
initiative or referendum petition for the purpose of obtaining any signature to
any such petition, or for the purpose of persuading any person to sign any such
petition;
   (D)   Circulates or causes to circulate any initiative or referendum
petition, knowing the same to contain false, forged, or fictitious names; and/
or
   (E)   Makes any false affidavit concerning any initiative or referendum
petition or the signatures appended thereto.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.13 LIMITATION.
   Nothing within the terms and language of this chapter should be considered
or interpreted to allow for procedures herein to divest or otherwise interfere
with the normal powers and duties of the Board of County Commissioners with
regards to its right to adopt or repeal any ordinance pursuant to state law.
Nothing in the language of this chapter should be considered or interpreted to
allow for the violation of substantive or procedure requirements of state law.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   A person is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to punishment of
30 days in the county jail and/or a fine of $300, who commits and is found
guilty of the acts listed in §
31.12.
(Ord. 80, passed 3-3-1980)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Emergency Communications System
   
32.01   Establishment of a service area
   
32.02   Fees
   
32.03   Establishment of Emergency Communications Governing Board (ECB)
   
32.04   Composition of the ECB
   
32.05   Administrator of system
   
32.06   Service of system
**** EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM ****
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SERVICE AREA.
   The consolidated emergency communications system for the county shall have a
service area comprising the whole of the county including incorporated
municipalities.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 32.02 FEES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to this Board pursuant to Idaho Code § 31-
4819, the Board of County Commissioners hereby enacts the emergency
communications fee in an amount of $1 per month per access or interconnected
VoIP service line.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS GOVERNING BOARD (ECB).
   There is hereby established an Emergency Communications Governing Board
(ECB) for the county. The membership of the ECB shall be composed of the Board
of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 32.04 COMPOSITION OF THE ECB.
   The Board of County Commissioners may by resolution amend the composition of
the ECB, as well as appoint an Advisory Board to assist the ECB.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 32.05 ADMINISTRATOR OF SYSTEM.
   The Board of County Commissioners is hereby appointed as the Administrator
of the emergency communications system.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 12-22-2008)
§ 32.06 SERVICE OF SYSTEM.
   The Sheriff’s office shall be designated to service the 9-1-1 calls. The
Board of County Commissioners may by resolution designate a different provider
of service for the system.
(Ord. 2009-1, passed 12-22-2008)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTES
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Administration
   
50.04   Scope
   
50.05   Liability
Commercial Wood/Lawn Disposal Plan
   
50.20   Policy
   
50.21   Definitions
   
50.22   Commercial disposal charge
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Disposing of certain items in the county landfill prohibited, see §
130.02
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to institute within the county an
orderly solid waste collection system and to provide for protection of public
health, environmental quality, public safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 10-14-1997)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE HAULER. Any person who collects, hauls, or transports
solid waste on any highway or county road for business or profit or
remuneration.
   DESIGNATED DISPOSAL SITES. Wood, metal, household demolition, tires,
batteries, oil, antifreeze, and such other sites as may hereafter be adopted by
resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   DISPOSAL. The act or process of final placement, distribution, or
arrangement in an orderly manner of solid waste so as to deal with it
conclusively in compliance with Idaho Code and the rules and regulations
relating to solid waste.
   MANDATORY SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SYSTEM. A command requirement of assigning
the entire gathering or amassing of solid waste to a delegated agent to ensure
complete transport of the same to a disposal site.
   SOLID WASTE. All solid material that is considered to be useless, unwanted,
or discarded by any person in possession of it. This includes, but is not
restricted to, garbage, trash, rubbish, and construction waste.
   SYSTEM. Lands, sites, facilities, equipment, and manpower necessary for
collection, transportation, storage, treatment, processing, reuse, recycling,
or other means necessary for the disposal of solid waste.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 10-14-1997)
§ 50.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsible agency. The county.
   (B)   Function and powers.
      (1)   As defined under Idaho Code §§ 31-4401 et seq.; and
      (2)   To establish an orderly solid waste collection and disposal system
and to establish the necessary policies to adequately administer said system.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 10-14-1997)
§ 50.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   Any person or commercial waste hauler who hauls solid waste to a
collection or disposal site must prevent littering, spilling, leaking, or
dripping upon county roads.
   (B)   All persons hauling solid waste to a collection or disposal site must
follow all rules and regulations of landfill by depositing all materials to
appropriate designated areas either designated by attendant or by sign.
   (C)   Any person who hauls solid waste to a collection or disposal site in
the form of wood products shall deposit said wood products in a “wood only”
pile, and no other debris shall be deposited in the “wood only” pile.
   (D)   Any person who hauls solid waste to a collection or disposal site in
the form of metal shall dispose of said metal in a pile designated “metal only”
by the attendant or by sign, and no other debris shall be placed in the “metal
only” pile.
   (E)   Any person who hauls solid waste to a collection or disposal site in
the form of tires shall dispose of said tires in a pile designated “tires only”
by the attendant or by sign, and no other debris shall be placed in the “tires
only” pile.
   (F)   Any person who hauls solid waste to a collection or disposal site must
obey all stop signs and a ten mph speed sign within the landfill.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 10-14-1997) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 LIABILITY.
   The County Prosecutor, upon probable cause, shall cause proceedings to be
commenced against violators of the provisions of §
50.04 by civil or criminal action.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 10-14-1997)
**** COMMERCIAL WOOD/LAWN DISPOSAL PLAN ****
§ 50.20 POLICY.
   The County Solid Waste Department will accept only wood/lawn waste generated
within the county. Wood/Lawn waste that is delivered by anyone other than the
homeowner/tenant is delivered in a commercial vehicle, or is generated by a
commercial activity will be considered commercial waste with appropriate
charges applied. Patrons may be required to produce verification of county
residence or property ownership which indicates the current payment of the
solid waste disposal fee and verification that the waste was generated from
that residence. Documentation must be deemed suitable by solid waste personnel.
Failure to provide appropriate documentation may result in immediate charge of
the commercial rate.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 50.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Waste resulting from activity, or service for profit
will be deemed a COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY, and disposal resulting from that activity
will be allowed at the current commercial rate.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle that is used for commercial purposes, regardless of
license plate designation.
      (2)   Any vehicle displaying a business advertisement, or logo, including
rental trucks, vans, cars, or trailers.
   HOMEOWNER. The registered owner or household tenant of the residential
property for which a current solid waste fee has been paid.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 50.22 COMMERCIAL DISPOSAL CHARGE.
 
Brush/Lawn waste                        $6 per cubic yard
Clean stumps over six inches (at face)  $20 per cubic yard
Clean stumps under six inches (at face) $10 per cubic yard
Separated lumber                        $6 per cubic yard
Wood chips                              $6 per cubic yard
 
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-21-2015)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person in violation of §
50.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to a fine not more than
$300 and may be imprisoned for a term not to exceed six months.
      (2)   The county may also bring a civil action to abate or enjoin a
violation of §
50.04 and to collect and enforce payment of any sums of money due to the county
by reason of §§
50.01 through
50.05 together with reasonable legal fees and court costs.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 10-14-1997)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Rights-of-way
   
70.02   Speed limit for county roads
§ 70.01 RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The vast majority of land in the county is managed by a
federal or state agency. Ever since initial settlement of county lands, owners
of private land and of private property interests have, of necessity, asserted
and used rights-of-way upon and across such federally managed and state-managed
lands in order to obtain that beneficial and economically efficient use of his,
her, or their private land and property interests which is vital to the
commerce and economic stability of the county. The purpose of this section is
to promote and foster commerce and economic stability within the county by
authorizing the County Recorder to receive and record assertions of such
rights-of-way upon and across federally managed and state-managed lands.
   (B)   Recording of assertions of rights-of-way. The County Recorder shall
receive for recording and shall record assertions of rights-of-way which are
filed with the County Recorder on a form to be provided by the County Recorder.
   (C)   Form for filing assertion of rights-of-way. Any assertion of rights-
of-way must be filed on the form provided by the County Recorder and all
information required by said form shall be provided by the person asserting the
rights-of-way. The rights-of-way form must be signed by the person asserting
the rights-of-way and the signature must be notarized. The assertion of rights-
of-way must be accompanied by a legal description of the asserted rights-of-way
or a map which clearly designates the location of the asserted rights-of-way.
The County Recorder shall receive and record the rights-of-way form, the
supporting legal description, and/or map and other documents upon which the
assertion is based.
   (D)   Fee for recording. The County Recorder shall charge a recording fee in
accordance with state law.
(Ord. 98-2, passed 12-16-1997)
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMIT FOR COUNTY ROADS.
   The maximum speed on all county roads, unless said county roads are
otherwise posted, is 35 mph.
(Ord. 73-2, passed 4-9-1973)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NOXIOUS WEEDS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Purpose; title
   
90.02   Definitions
Vaccinations
   
90.15   Vaccination required
   
90.16   Vaccination Certificate
   
90.17   Reporting suspected cases of rabies
   
90.18   Reporting of bites
   
90.19   Isolation of suspected rabid animals
   
90.20   Tag affixed
   
90.21   Removal of tag
Care and Control
   
90.35   Restraint of dogs by owners
   
90.36   Dogs running at large to be seized
   
90.37   Fees to reclaim dogs
   
90.38   Cruel treatment and abandonment
   
90.39   Animals in unattended vehicles
   
90.40   Authority to impound
   
90.41   Vicious dogs
   
90.42   Stray animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.01 PURPOSE; TITLE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards and procedures for
responsible care and ownership of dogs and other domestic animals within the
unincorporated areas of the county. This chapter does not address all aspects
of animal ownership, rather, it establishes some minimum standards for animal
care, control, and treatment in the interest of public safety and animal
welfare. The responsibility for actions and behavior of domestic animals
remains with the owner.
   (B)   This chapter shall be referred as the “Boundary County Animal Control
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Shall include, but not be limited to, birds, fish, reptiles,
mammals, and nonhuman primates.
   ATTACK. Biting, attempted biting, acting in a threatening manner,
aggressively pursuing with a present ability to bite or injure a person. A
“threatening manner” is defined as any action by the animal towards a person
that instills a well-founded apprehension of fear in the person because of the
animal’s actions coupled with the present ability of the animal to do harm.
   AT LARGE. Being on any private property, without the permission of the
person who owns or has a right to possess or use the property, or unrestrained
by a leash on either public property or private property, or in any other place
or manner which presents substantial risk or interference with animal or public
health, safety, or welfare.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Boundary County Board of Commissioners.
   DOG. Any Canis familiaris of either sex.
   LEASH. Any rope, leather strap, chain, or any other material, being held in
the hand of a person capable of controlling, and actually controlling, the
animal to which it is attached.
   OWNER. Any person who is the legal owner, or any person who keeps, harbors,
takes care of for another person, or possesses or controls in any manner any
animal on such premises shall be considered the OWNER of said animal.
   RABIES CERTIFICATE FORM. A Rabies Certificate form issued by a licensed
veterinarian.
   SHERIFF. The County Sheriff, his or her agents, deputies, or other persons
designated by the Sheriff.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
**** VACCINATIONS ****
§ 90.15 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Dog owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for each dog they own, keep,
harbor, or possess within 30 days after it becomes six months of age, or within
30 days of obtaining any dog over six months of age. It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep, harbor, or possess any dog, as required, above unless such
dog has a current rabies vaccination, administered by a licensed veterinarian,
with a rabies vaccine approved for use in a dog. Such vaccination shall be
repeated at such intervals as determined by the type of vaccine used and
licensing requirements of said vaccine.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 VACCINATION CERTIFICATE.
   Any veterinarian who vaccinates a dog for rabies shall also certify by
properly completing a Rabies Vaccine Certificate.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.17 REPORTING SUSPECTED CASES OF RABIES.
   Any person having care and custody of an animal which shows symptoms of
rabies or which acts in any manner that would lead to a reasonable suspicion
that the animal may have rabies shall notify the Sheriff and the Panhandle
Health District.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.18 REPORTING OF BITES.
   (A)   All persons bitten and parents or guardians of children bitten, by a
dog, cat, skunk, fox, coyote, bobcat, or other animal of a species subject to
rabies, shall notify the Sheriff and the Panhandle Health District as soon as
possible thereafter.
   (B)   Physicians treating such bites and other persons having knowledge of
such bites shall also notify the Sheriff and the Panhandle Health District.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.19 ISOLATION OF SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   Upon the order of the Sheriff or the Panhandle Health District, a
suspected rabid animal shall be isolated in strict confinement under the proper
care and observation of a licensed veterinarian, in a veterinary hospital,
animal shelter, or other facility, approved by the Sheriff or the Panhandle
Health District.
   (B)   Such animal shall not be killed or released for at least ten days
after the onset of symptoms, unless permission is obtained from the owner or
responsible health agency to kill the animal for purposes of laboratory
examination. All costs incurred associated with this chapter shall be paid by
the animal’s owner.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.20 TAG AFFIXED.
   Every dog owner shall securely affix the current rabies tag to the collar or
harness of the dog for which it was issued, and shall ensure that the dog wears
such rabies tag at all times.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.21 REMOVAL OF TAG.
   No person shall remove a rabies tag or identification tag from any dog which
is not owned by that person unless the person removing said tag is a licensed
veterinarian.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
**** CARE AND CONTROL ****
§ 90.35 RESTRAINT OF DOGS BY OWNERS.
   Dog owners shall at all times prevent their dogs from being at large, and
from being in violation of other sections of this chapter. Failure of an owner
or handler to comply with any provision of this chapter shall be a violation.
Dogs may be free from a leash while participating in field trials and obedience
trials, while actively engaged in herding livestock, while assisting a peace
officer engaged in law enforcement duties, or while hunting pursuant to state
fish and game regulations, or under the immediate control of the owner when the
animal is on property open to the public. Dogs shall not be allowed to run at
large in the vicinity of any farm, pasture, ranch, dwelling, house, or
cultivated fields of another, without a competent and responsible attendant or
owner, or fail to keep such dog securely confined within the limits of an
owner’s premises when not under the immediate care and control of a competent
and responsible attendant or owner. In addition to the forgoing, any animal
which is injurious to the health, or acts in a threatening manner to any
person, or is an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by any person or any animal
who obstructs unlawfully the free passage or use of any navigable lake, river,
stream, channel, basin, or any public park, square, street, highway, road,
whether it be county or state, said dog’s owners shall be subject to the
penalties identified within this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE TO BE SEIZED.
   The Sheriff may seize all dogs running at large when not under the immediate
care and control of a competent and responsible attendant or owner and impound
the same. Wherein such dog remains unclaimed after actual notice to the owner,
if known, for a period of 14 days, it shall be the duty of the Sheriff to cause
such dog to be disposed of. All costs associated with the boarding and disposal
of said animal shall be borne by the owner.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.37 FEES TO RECLAIM DOGS.
   The owner or any other person on the owner’s behalf or absent of a showing
of ownership any other person seeking to reclaim a dog which has been seized
for running at large without being under the immediate care and control of a
competent and responsible attendant or owner shall pay a fee of $25. When the
same dog has been seized a second time, the owner or other person seeking to
reclaim the dog shall pay a fee of $50. When the same dog has been seized a
subsequent time, the owner or person seeking to reclaim the dog shall pay a fee
of $100. Such fees shall be in addition to any fine and/or jail term imposed,
if criminal proceedings are commenced in accordance with this chapter. Said fee
shall be paid to the Sheriff prior to retrieval of the dog.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.38 CRUEL TREATMENT AND ABANDONMENT.
   No person shall treat an animal in a cruel manner as defined in Idaho Code §
25-35. No person shall abandon any animal on any public or private property, or
allow an animal to be without potable water and food.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 ANIMALS IN UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No person shall leave an animal in any unattended vehicle without adequate
ventilation or security to protect the public, or in any manner as to subject
the animal to extreme temperatures which adversely affect the health or welfare
of the animal.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any other person designated by
the Sheriff may seize and impound any animal running at large without a collar
or harness bearing evidence of current vaccination as required by this chapter
as well as any and all dogs or other animals found running at large upon the
public streets, alleys, or other public place, or private premises without the
permission of the owner of said premises.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 90.41 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog which, when not physically provoked, attacks as defined,
wounds, bites, or otherwise injures any person that results in lacerations,
puncture wounds, muscle tears, or disfiguration, or requires any sutures or
corrective or cosmetic surgery to a person, or any dog not physically provoked
physically attacks, wounds, bites, threatens to bite or attack, or otherwise
injures any person or livestock, poultry, domesticated animals, or animals kept
in captivity for commercial purposes is VICIOUS. Working dogs, including, but
not limited to, guard dogs, police dogs, and stock dogs, are exempt from this
classification while performing their specified duties. Once a dog is deemed
VICIOUS by the court or by the Sheriff, it shall be unlawful for the owner of
the vicious dog to allow to be present outside a secured enclosure unless it is
restrained as required by this chapter.
      (2)   A SECURED ENCLOSURE is one from which the animal cannot escape and
for which exit and entry is controlled by the owner of the premises or the
owner of the animal. A SECURED ENCLOSURE shall at minimum either be confined
indoors in a manner where escape is not possible or outdoors in a locked pen or
enclosure designed to keep the animal from escaping and shall have secure sides
with a secure top and a concrete floor that is attached to the sides of the pen
or structure. All pens or structures must be kept clean and sanitary and must
protect the animals from the elements.
   (B)   (1)   Leash and muzzle. The owner of a vicious dog shall not allow the
dog to go outside its kennel, pen, or structure unless the dog is muzzled,
restrained by a chain or leash not more than four feet in length, and under the
physical control of an owner. The muzzle must not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration, but must prevent the dog from biting
any human or animal.
      (2)   Signs. The owner of a vicious dog shall display in a prominent
place on the owner’s premises a clearly visible warning sign of two feet by two
feet in dimension indicating that there is a vicious dog on the premises. The
sign must be readable from the public highway or thoroughfare and posted at the
entrance of the owner’s property. The owner shall also display a sign with a
symbol warning children of the presence of a vicious dog. Similar signs shall
be posted on the dog’s kennel, pen, and enclosed structure.
      (3)   Insurance. The owner of a vicious dog must provide proof to the
County Clerk that the owner has procured public liability insurance of a least
$500,000 insuring the owner for any damage or personal injury which may be
caused by his or her vicious dog. If any time the insurance, as provided,
herein is not in effect, the dog may be picked up and placed in protective
custody at a place designated by the county. The dog owner is required to have
his or her insurance company notify the county if the insurance expires or
lapses.
      (4)   Inspection on premises. The owner of a vicious dog shall contact
the Sheriff’s Department on an annual basis and shall arrange for an inspection
of the premises wherein the vicious dog is confined. The inspection shall deal
with the security of the confinement and all other items listed above,
including the insurance. The fee for such inspection shall be not less than $50
per animal.
      (5)   Identification. The owner shall provide front and profile pictures
of any animal declared to be vicious, to be kept on file at the Sheriff’s
office.
   (C)   Persons guilty of a violation of any portion of this chapter, in
addition to any civil liability available and in accordance with law, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. The Court may, in the interest of public safety, order
the owner to have the vicious dog destroyed or may direct the appropriate
authorities to destroy the dog.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   This section shall also be entitled “The Boundary County Stray Animal
Ordinance.” It may be cited in Court as such.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the word ANIMAL shall include and
mean all beings commonly referred to and thought of as animals, except human
beings and those animals that are wild animals living in a wild state or
condition. However, this section shall only refer to and apply to those such
animals not covered and dealt with by the open range and herd district laws of
the state contained in the Idaho Code.
   (C)   It is hereby declared that any animal which is injurious to health, or
is indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property
by an entire community or neighborhood, or by any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake or river, stream, canal, or basin, or any public
park, square, street, or highway whether it be a county one or a state one, is
a public nuisance and is subject to the remedies found in the Idaho Code for
the abatement and punishment of all public nuisances, and also subject to the
enforcement provisions of Idaho Code §§ 52-201 et seq.
(Ord. 82-3, passed 12-13-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.15 through
90.21 or §§
90.35 through
90.41 is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as allowed by Idaho Code §§ 18-113
and 25-35 et seq. In addition to the misdemeanor penalty provision identified,
said person may be subject to civil remedies available at law and the owner’s
dog as identified above may be destroyed upon court order.
   (C)   (1)   Violation of §
90.42 is a misdemeanor and the punishment for a violation of §
90.42 can be either a fine in an amount not to exceed $300 or by confinement in
the county jail for a term not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
      (2)   For clarification purposes, be it known that each separate time
that an animal or animals are allowed to constitute a public nuisance in
violation of §
90.42 shall constitute a separate offense and that TIME means each separate
occurrence whereby the animal or animals constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 82-3, passed 12-13-1982; Ord. 2006-06, passed 8-7-2006)
CHAPTER 91: NOXIOUS WEEDS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   County enforcement duties
   
91.04   County authority
   
91.05   Notices for control of county noxious weeds
   
91.06   Landowner duties and rights
   
91.07   Weed Control Advisory Committees
   
91.08   Designation of county noxious weeds and action plan
   
91.09   Prevention of entry and dissemination of unknown plants and new alien
species
   
91.10   Exhibits
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to designate county noxious weeds, legal
requirements, duties, and responsibilities of parties to which the chapter
applies, and to provide the statutory and financial means for the control of
county noxious weeds.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY.
      (1)   In the case of the federal government, any authority which
exercises administrative control over defined areas of federal lands;
      (2)   In the case of the state, any department, board, commission, or
institution; and
      (3)   In the case of local government, cities, counties, and any legal
subdivisions thereof, drainage districts, irrigation districts, canal
companies, highway districts, or any special taxing district.
   APPLICABLE FUND OR ACCOUNT. The county’s Noxious Weed Fund, which is hereby
created and established and shall be maintained in each county and which shall
be used exclusively for the purpose of fulfilling the county’s role in noxious
weed control.
   CONTAINMENT. Halting the spread of a county noxious weed infestation beyond
specified boundaries.
   COUNTY. Boundary County or its Board of County Commissioners or its Board of
County Commissioners’ authorized designee.
   COUNTY NOXIOUS WEED. Any plant which has been designated noxious by the
Board of County Commissioners in accordance with the county noxious weed review
and decision record shown in Exhibit 1 of this chapter.
   ERADICATION. The complete elimination of all above-ground plant growth of a
target county noxious weed species for a period of two years.
   LAND. All soil or water or other medium that supports plant growth.
   LANDOWNER.
      (1)   The person who holds legal title to the land, except that portion
for which another person has the right to use, exclude others from possession
of, or manage the parcel; or
      (2)   A person with an interest in a parcel of land such that the person
has the right to exclude others from possession of, use, or manage the parcel.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, agency, corporation, company,
society, or association.
   PREVENTION. Any action that reduces the potential for the introduction or
establishment of a plant species in areas not currently infested with that
species.
   QUARANTINE. The regulation of the production, movement, or existence of
plants, plant products, animals, animal products, or any other article or
material, or the normal activity of persons, to prevent or limit introduction
or spread of county noxious weeds.
   RESTORATION. The process of reconditioning formerly weed-infested land to a
productive or desirable condition.
   SPECIAL MANAGEMENT ZONE. An area wherein specific requirements of this
chapter may be modified.
   WEED CONTROL. Any or all of the following: prevention, restoration,
eradication, or modified treatments specified in a special management zone.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.03 COUNTY ENFORCEMENT DUTIES.
   (A)   The duty of enforcing this chapter and carrying out its provisions is
vested in the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners shall:
      (1)   Carry out the duties and responsibilities vested in the county
under this chapter and rules and regulations prescribed by the Board of County
Commissioners;
      (2)   Establish and maintain a coordinated program for control of county
noxious weeds in the county, and employ a County Weed Superintendent who shall
be qualified to detect and treat county noxious weeds;
      (3)   Designate one of its members as the liaison between the County Weed
Superintendent and the Board of County Commissioners;
      (4)   Provide operational and educational funds for the County Weed
Superintendent;
      (5)   Publish, between March 1 and April 30, in a newspaper of general
circulation within the county, a general notice for control of county noxious
weeds. The notice shall contain the list of county noxious weeds and identify
those known to be in the county, and shall stipulate the obligation to control.
Failure to publish the notice for control or serve individual notices herein
provided does not relieve any person from full compliance with this chapter and
regulations thereunder. Such publication shall be deemed legal and sufficient
notice;
      (6)   Cause, whenever the county finds it necessary to secure more prompt
or definite control of county noxious weeds than is accomplished by the general
notice, individual notices on a form approved by the Board of County
Commissioners to be served upon the landowner and, where possible, on the
operator of the land giving specific instructions when and how certain named
county noxious weeds are to be controlled. The individual notice shall also
contain information concerning the right to appeal. Individual notices shall be
applicable only to the current growing season;
      (7)   Ensure that all money received under the provisions of this chapter
shall be deposited to the county’s Noxious Weed Fund and shall be accounted for
as prescribed by the County Auditor, and that disbursements from the Noxious
Weed Fund shall be made only for noxious weed control purposes;
      (8)   Authorize and charge the County Weed Superintendent to:
         (a)   Examine all land within the county for the purpose of
determining whether the provisions of this chapter have been complied with;
         (b)   Maintain records, compile data, and submit such reports as the
Board of County Commissioners may require;
         (c)   Consult, advise, confer, and provide direction on matters
pertaining to county noxious weeds and the most effective and most practical
methods of county noxious weed control;
         (d)   Investigate or aid in the investigation and prosecution of any
violation of the provisions of this chapter, including serving of notices;
         (e)   Meet certification requirements as prescribed by the Board of
County Commissioners; and
         (f)   Make recommendations regarding establishment of special
management zones.
      (9)   Determine what weeds are noxious for the purposes of this chapter;
      (10)   Compile and keep current a list of such noxious weeds accurately
identified by both common and scientific name, which list shall be published
and incorporated in the rules and regulations of the Board of County
Commissioners in the format shown in Exhibit 2 of the ordinance codified
herein;
      (11)   Make and publish such rules and regulations as in the Board of
County Commissioners’ judgment are necessary to carry out the provisions of
this chapter; and
      (12)   Publish a list of things capable of carrying noxious weeds or
their seeds, and designate treatment of such articles to prevent their movement
of weeds.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.04 COUNTY AUTHORITY.
   The Board of County Commissioners are authorized, but not limited, to:
   (A)   Investigate the subject of county noxious weeds;
   (B)   Cooperate and enter into agreements with persons and with federal,
state, and county agencies in carrying out the Board of County Commissioners’
duties under this chapter, and to conduct matters outside the county in the
interest of county noxious weed control;
   (C)   Enter, if there is probable cause for entry pursuant to this chapter,
and at reasonable times, upon all lands within the county where there are
noxious weeds, to examine the condition of such weeds, if a reasonable attempt
has been made to contact the landowner, and the manager of the land, prior to
entry;
   (D)   Call and attend meetings and conferences dealing with the subject of
county noxious weeds;
   (E)   Disseminate information and conduct informational campaigns;
   (F)   Inspect and certify the county’s crops, imports, and exports to verify
freedom from county noxious weeds, and authorize others to conduct such
inspections and certification;
   (G)   Apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a search warrant
authorizing access to any land where access was sought for the purposes set
forth in this chapter but denied by the landowner; in which situation, the
court may, upon such application, issue a search warrant for purposes of this
chapter;
   (H)   Perform such other acts as may be necessary or appropriate to the
administration of the provisions of this chapter;
   (I)   Accept any funds or grants in aid from the state or federal government
for county noxious weed control purposes and account for such moneys as
prescribed by the State Auditor, and all such federal funds are hereby
appropriated to the purpose for which they are received;
   (J)   Permit modification of specific county noxious weed control
requirements in certain areas, after consulting with the landowner and
designating the area as a special management zone;
   (K)   Temporarily designate a plant species to be a county noxious weed for
up to 15 months after consultation with affected persons and publication in a
newspaper of general circulation serving the area of infestation;
   (L)   Have county noxious weeds controlled without cost to the landowner if
that is to the benefit of the county, without prejudice toward provisions of
this chapter relating to landowner responsibility to pay for costs of control;
   (M)   Quarantine any tract of land under its jurisdiction when it appears
there is an infestation of county noxious weeds beyond the ability of the
landowner to control and put into immediate operation the required means for
the control or containment of such county noxious weeds including necessary
destruction of crops;
   (N)   Stop movement of county noxious weed infested items. Such items shall
not be moved from designated premises except in accordance with the written
permission of the Board of County Commissioners or its designee;
   (O)   Purchase or provide for equipment and materials for the control of
county noxious weeds, independently or in combination with other control
authorities, and use such equipment or materials upon any lands within the
county;
   (P)   Utilize any other methods or local options that may be available for
the purpose of funding a coordinated county noxious weed control program;
   (Q)   Use the county’s Noxious Weed Fund, which may be a revolving fund,
only for county noxious weed purposes. In addition to any appropriated funds
designated for the control of county noxious weeds, the Board of County
Commissioners shall have the power to receive and disburse funds from any
source as a continuing appropriation at any time for the purpose of controlling
county noxious weeds; and
   (R)   Propose and accept plans for county noxious weed control which may be
extended over a period of years by agreement with the landowner. The agreement
shall be a contract and the county shall have the power and duty to enforce the
terms of any such agreement.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.05 NOTICES FOR CONTROL OF COUNTY NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (A)   Notices for control of county noxious weeds shall consist of two
kinds:
      (1)   A general notice for control of county noxious weeds to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the county; and
      (2)   Individual notices in a form prescribed by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   Failure to publish the notice for control or serve individual notices
herein provided does not relieve any person from full compliance with this
chapter and regulations thereunder. In all cases, said published notice shall
be deemed legal and sufficient notice. The general notice for control shall be
published at least one time between March 1 and April 30 and shall contain a
list of the county noxious weeds and shall specifically indicate those county
noxious weeds known to be in or imminently threatening to the county, and shall
stipulate the obligation to control.
   (C)   Whenever the county finds it necessary to secure more prompt or
definite control of county noxious weeds than is accomplished by the general
notice, it shall cause individual notices to be served upon the person or
agency owning and controlling such land, giving specific instructions when and
how certain named weeds are to be controlled. The individual notice shall also
contain information concerning the right to appeal. Individual notices shall be
applicable only to the current growing season.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever the owner of any land on which county noxious weeds are
present has neglected or failed to initiate control as required pursuant to
this chapter within five working days from receipt of an individual notice
given pursuant to this section, the county having jurisdiction shall have
proper control methods used on such land, including necessary destruction of
crops, and shall advise the owner of the cost incurred in connection with such
operation. The cost of any such control on private land shall be at the expense
of the owner.
      (2)   If unpaid for 60 days or longer, the amount of such expense shall
become a lien upon the property. Thereafter, the lien shall be subject to
collection by the county by sale of the property in the same manner as for
delinquent taxes. If the costs have not been paid to the person that performed
the work within 60 days, the Board of County Commissioners may direct that suit
be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction for the unpaid charges. Nothing
contained in this section shall be construed to require satisfaction of the
imposed obligation by the sale of property or to bar the application of any
other available remedy. Amounts collected under this section shall be deposited
to the county’s Noxious Weed Fund.
   (E)   When it appears to the County Noxious Weed Superintendent that upon
any tract of land under county jurisdiction there is an infestation of county
noxious weeds beyond the ability of the owner of such land to control, the
county may quarantine such land and put into immediate operation the necessary
means for the control of such county noxious weeds including necessary
destruction of crops. The county shall, prior to the entry upon such land,
serve individual notice on the owner thereof of such quarantine and of the date
of the proposed entry, and shall also advise the same persons of the completion
of the control operation and the cost thereof. If the owner is not known or
readily available, notice shall be deemed satisfied after eight days from
postmark of registered mail to the address as shown on the assessment roll of
the county.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.06 LANDOWNER DUTIES AND RIGHTS.
   (A)   Duties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of all landowners to
control county noxious weeds on his, her, or their land and property in
accordance with this chapter and with rules and regulations promulgated by the
Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   The cost of controlling county noxious weeds shall be the
obligation of the landowner.
      (3)   County noxious weed control must be for prevention, eradication, or
restoration. However, areas may be modified from the eradication requirement
after the Board of County Commissioners have determined them to be unreasonable
for short-term eradication and have designated the area as a special management
zone.
      (4)   The landowner shall reimburse the county for work done by the
county because of the landowner’s failure to comply with this chapter.
      (5)   The landowner shall not move any article that is infested with
county noxious weeds from the landowner’s premises until it is treated in
accordance with the applicable regulations, or if quarantine applies, in
accordance with the written permission of the Board of County Commissioners or
its designee.
   (B)   Rights.
      (1)   Any landowner who is dissatisfied with the control measures used or
the manner in which control is conducted upon his or her property, or with the
amount of any charge by the county for control work or for the purchase of
materials or use of equipment, may, within 30 days after being advised of the
amount of the charge, file a protest with the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   Any person served with an individual notice may, within two days of
receipt of the notice, appeal to the Board of County Commissioners. A hearing
shall be set by the Board of County Commissioners within five days after
receipt of notice of the appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be sent by the
Board of County Commissioners to the appellant.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.07 WEED CONTROL ADVISORY COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners may appoint persons to a Weed
Control Advisory Committee, who shall be persons knowledgeable of county
noxious weeds and the damage done by such weeds. The members of the Advisory
Committee shall be appointed for renewable terms of two years.
   (B)   It shall be the function of each Weed Control Advisory Committee to:
      (1)   Assist in planning and carrying out county noxious weed control
programs;
      (2)   Act as liaison to other Weed Control Advisory Committees; and
      (3)   Provide a forum for public input on matters relating to the control
of county noxious weeds.
   (C)   Members of the Advisory Committee may be reimbursed for actual and
necessary expenses when on committee business. Expense payments may be made
from the county’s Noxious Weed Fund.
   (D)   Advisory Committees have no executive powers and act in an advisory
capacity only.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.08 DESIGNATION OF COUNTY NOXIOUS WEEDS AND ACTION PLAN.
   (A)   Any county resident may submit to the Board of County Commissioners a
request for county noxious weed designation of a species if such request is in
writing and includes reasons against a proposed plan for county action on such
species. All non-native plant species reliably reported to exist in the county,
and all requests for county noxious weed designation, must be considered by the
Weed Control Advisory Committee for recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners within six months of the request. Records of all such
considerations must be maintained on permanent file by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   Every species for which county noxious weed designation is
required or deemed feasible, including species considered for temporary
designation, shall, except as otherwise herein provided, be designated a county
noxious weed only upon recommendation from the County Weed Control Advisory
Committee and subsequent approval by the Board of County Commissioners, using
the format shown in Exhibit 1 of the ordinance codified herein.
      (2)    County noxious weeds under this chapter shall be so designated by
a separate resolution of the Board of County Commissioners and are subject to
change in designation upon review by the County Weed Control Advisory Committee
and subsequent action of the Board of County Commissioners, except as otherwise
herein provided. County noxious weeds shall be so designated only upon meeting
criteria provided in Exhibit 1 of the ordinance codified herein, and shall be
listed by both common and scientific names using the format shown in Exhibit 2
of the ordinance codified herein.
      (3)   Any species designated noxious pursuant to this chapter shall
automatically and immediately cease to be so designated if and when that
species is designated noxious under the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.09 PREVENTION OF ENTRY AND DISSEMINATION OF UNKNOWN PLANTS AND NEW ALIEN
SPECIES.
   Since serious weeds often become established because their noxious potential
is not recognized until they have spread beyond possibility of eradication,
protection of the county against unrecognized threats shall include the
following.
   (A)   Unknown plants. No plant, including seed or other propagules, of any
alien species shall be grown in, transported within, or admitted into the
county without accurate taxonomic identification as to the species by either
Latin name or by common name listed in locally available standard reference
books. All unknown plants are hereby designated county noxious weeds. If such
plants are subsequently identified in accordance with this chapter to the
satisfaction of the Board of County Commissioners, the noxious status of such
plants is determined by that identification.
   (B)   New alien species. Any plant species found in the county, and that has
not been documented to previously exist in the county, shall be automatically
and immediately designated a county noxious weed on a temporary basis. Such
species may be subsequently designated otherwise by the Board of County
Commissioners after further investigation and completion of the noxious weed
review and decision record in Exhibit 1 of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.10 EXHIBITS.
   Exhibits 1 and 2 are included in the ordinance codified and are adopted
herein as if set out in full. They are to be used as guides for criteria,
planning, and listing. Actual formats may vary if the nature of individual
species or their infestations so warrant, in the judgment of the Weed Control
Advisory Committee.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person knowing of the existence of any county noxious weeds on
lands owned or controlled by him or her, who fails to control such weeds in
accordance with this chapter or any person who intrudes upon any land under
quarantine or who moves or causes to be moved any article covered by this
chapter except as provided or who prevents or threatens to prevent entry upon
land as provided in this chapter, or who interferes with the carrying out of
the provisions of this chapter or who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $1,000 or up to one year in jail, or both such fine and imprisonment for
each violation.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners may bring an action to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and the penalty provided for under this section.
(Ord. 94-1, passed 2-2-1994)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Liquor sales
Licenses
   
110.15   Authority
   
110.16   Fees
   
110.17   Administration and procedures
   
110.18   Transcribable record
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 110.01 LIQUOR SALES.
   (A)   From the effective date of this section, in accordance with the
provisions of Idaho Code § 23-927(2), the hours when liquor may be sold in the
county are hereby extended to 2:00 a.m., prevailing local time.
   (B)   From the effective date of this section, in accordance with the
provisions of Idaho Code § 23-927(2), liquor may be sold in the county on
Sundays, Memorial Day, and Thanksgiving Day.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 7-7-1986)
**** LICENSES ****
§ 110.15 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 23-9 et seq. and 23-10 et seq. from and after the
passage hereof, no county application for issuance, renewal, or transfer shall
be granted for a retail beer, wine, or liquor license until approval thereof by
the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2000-05, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 110.16 FEES.
   A copy of the county application shall be submitted to the Clerk of the
Board of County Commissioners. The applicant shall tender the required fees for
the county license as adopted by resolution.
(Ord. 2000-05, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 110.17 ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon submission of a completed application, the Board of County
Commissioners shall take action at its next available public meeting. Upon
completion of the proceedings by the Board of County Commissioners, if the
application is approved, a license shall be issued upon receipt of all required
documentation.
   (B)   If the application is denied, said notification shall specify:
      (1)   The statutes, ordinances, and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      (2)   The reasons for the denial; and
      (3)   The actions, if any, the applicant can take to obtain the license,
transfer, or renewal thereof.
(Ord. 2000-05, passed 5-9-2000)
§ 110.18 TRANSCRIBABLE RECORD.
   Proceedings before the Board of County Commissioners shall be recorded by a
transcribable verbatim recording of the proceedings which shall be maintained
for a period of six months, unless judicial review is sought as provided by
Idaho Code § 23-1015, in which case they shall be preserved until all judicial
remedy is exhausted. The applicant, upon written request and upon payment of
the estimated cost, may have the record transcribed within the periods
prescribed in this section. The county, in addition to the transcribable
record, shall maintain minutes of the meeting to be retained indefinitely, or
as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 2000-05, passed 5-9-2000)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Intent
   
111.02   Permit required
   
111.03   Application for permit
   
111.04   Application fee
   
111.05   Submission of plans for approval; approving agencies
   
111.06   Failure to comply shall constitute a public nuisance
Conditions
   
111.20   Conditions for issuance of permits
   
111.21   Health and sanitary facilities
   
111.22   Fire protection
   
111.23   Distance from habitation
   
111.24   Parking facilities
   
111.25   Hours of operation
   
111.26   Public safety
   
111.27   Cash bond and indemnifications
   
111.28   Liability insurance
  
   
111.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 111.01 INTENT.
   It is necessary for the protection of the health, safety, and welfare of the
general public to license and regulate the advertising, permitting, or
conducting of certain educational, religious, entertainment, or amusement
activities which will or can be reasonably expected to disturb the ordinary
peace and quiet of the inhabitants of residences, dwelling houses, or other
ordinary places of human habitation.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, corporation, landowner, or
lessor to allow, conduct, permit, advertise, or cause to be conducted,
permitted, or advertised, any entertainment, religious, educational, or
amusement activity or activities outside the municipal boundaries of the
incorporated cities with the county, and which said activity or activities
will, or can reasonably be expected to attract an outdoor gathering or assembly
of 1,000 or more persons at any one time (whether or not a charge or
contribution is required for admission), unless a valid county permit has first
been obtained, authorizing and permitting the conduct of such activity or
activities; provided, however, that no such permit shall be required for any
such activity or activities authorized under any valid lease of real property
owned by the county, the state, or any political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Written application for any permit to conduct the activities regulated by
this chapter shall be made to the Board of County Commissioners not less than
60 days prior to the date upon which such activities are to commence. Said
application shall include:
   (A)   The name of the person, persons, partnership, corporation, or
organization on whose behalf such application is made;
   (B)   The names and addresses of all persons having any proprietary interest
in any such partnership, corporation, or organization;
   (C)   The principal place of business of any such partnership, corporation,
or organization;
   (D)   The legal description of the land to be occupied or utilized by such
activities, together with the address of the owner or lessee thereof and a
verified consent by said owner (if other than the applicant) permitting the
activity or activities upon said real property upon the dates for which the
application is made;
   (E)   A description of the type and nature of the educational, religious,
entertainment, or amusement activity or activities for which a permit is
sought;
   (F)   The date or dates upon which such activity or activities are proposed
to be conducted; and
   (G)   The maximum number of people expected to attend, view, and participate
in said activity or activities on each date applied for. Written notice of
approval or disapproval of said application shall be given to the applicant no
later than 20 days after the application has been filed. Any notice of denial
shall state the regulations, laws, and/or conditions upon which denial is based
and the nature of the noncompliance by the applicant. Within ten days after
mailing of such notice, the applicant may show that such noncompliance has been
remedied; upon failure of the applicant to do so, the denial shall be final and
conclusive.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FEE.
   The basic permit fee which shall accompany any application hereunder shall
be $100, which said fee shall be retained by the county whether or not a permit
be granted, denied, or withdrawn.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.05 SUBMISSION OF PLANS FOR APPROVAL; APPROVING AGENCIES.
   Whenever approval by any governmental agency other than the county is
required hereunder, the applicant for such approval shall be required to
cooperate fully with such agency to ensure that a full review of the proposals
may be accomplished by such agency within the 20-day time limit set out in §
111.03. When any type of physical facility is required or subject to approval
hereunder, a permit may be granted (subject to withdrawal) based upon specific
plans being proposed, submitted, and approved hereunder. All such facilities
constructed under authority of such permit shall be in existence at least five
days prior to the commencement of the activity or activities for which the
permit is granted and shall be subject to inspection by the approving agency or
agencies. Should the actual facility or construction fail to meet the standards
approved in the proposed plans, the permit may be withdrawn. Withdrawal shall
be effected by mailing of written notice to the address of the applicant
specifying the reasons for such withdrawal.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.06 FAILURE TO COMPLY SHALL CONSTITUTE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Noncompliance with the minimum health, sanitation, and safety provisions
required herein, or failure to comply with the terms and conditions hereunder
shall constitute a public nuisance, and the person or persons responsible
therefor shall be subject to all criminal and civil remedies for such.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
**** CONDITIONS ****
§ 111.20 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Permits shall be issued hereunder only when the conditions enumerated
hereinafter in §§
111.21 through
111.28 have been fulfilled by the applicant.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.21 HEALTH AND SANITARY FACILITIES.
   No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the applicants obtain the
written approval of a medical doctor duly licensed in the state and the County
Health Officer and approved by the Board of County Commissioners, which said
health approvals shall indicate that the applicants for said permit have
complied with all rules, regulations, laws, and ordinances of the State Board
of Health, the Panhandle District Board of Health, the state, and the
Environmental Health Code. Such approval shall indicate the type and adequacy
of water supply to be provided, the type and adequacy of toilet, waste
collection, and washing facilities to be provided, the type and adequacy of
health and medical facilities to be provided, and, if there is to be food or
drink served on the premises, the type and adequacy of food and drink service
and facilities to be furnished.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.22 FIRE PROTECTION.
   No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the Board has received the
written approval of the Fire Protection District in which the proposed activity
or activities are to be held. Such approval shall indicate that the applicant
has complied with all applicable fire prevention regulations, laws, and
requirements and shall state the manner in which the applicant has complied
therewith.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.23 DISTANCE FROM HABITATION.
   No permit shall be granted for any activity or activities regulated
hereunder which are proposed to be held within 1,000 yards of any schoolhouse
or church; or within 500 yards of any occupied house, residence, or other place
of human habitation; provided, however, that such restriction with respect to
occupied houses, residences, and other places of human habitation may be waived
upon proof by the applicant that the occupants of such places have given his,
her, or their written consent to the conduct of such activity or activities.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.24 PARKING FACILITIES.
   No permit shall be granted for any activity or activities regulated
hereunder unless the applicant shows to the Board of County Commissioners, by
means of a scale drawing, that adequate parking facilities have been made
available within or adjacent to the location for which the permit is requested.
Such parking facilities shall provide parking space for one vehicle for each
four persons expected or reasonably expected to attend, view, or participate in
the proposed activity or activities. Such parking facilities shall be provided
off public roads or highways and adequate ingress and egress shall be provided
to and from such parking areas.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.25 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No permit issued hereunder shall authorize any activity or activities
regulated hereby between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any day; said
permit shall specify on its face the day, or days, and hours within which such
activity or activities may be held.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.26 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   No permit shall be granted hereunder unless the applicant has obtained the
written approval of the Sheriff, indicating that the following conditions have
been complied with:
   (A)   Adequate traffic control and crowd protection policing have been
contracted for or otherwise provided by the applicant;
   (B)   Traffic and control personnel shall be named persons deputized by the
Sheriff, or meeting the criteria for becoming so deputized;
   (C)   The applicant will provide at least one traffic control officer for
each 500 persons expected or reasonably expected to be in attendance at any one
time during the event; and
   (D)   The applicant will provide at least one crowd control officer for each
250 persons expected or reasonably expected to be in attendance at any time
during the event; provided, however, that if at any time during the said event
the size of the crowd exceeds by 20% the number of persons represented by the
applicant as expected to be in attendance, the Sheriff shall have the
discretion to require the limitation of further admissions.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.27 CASH BOND AND INDEMNIFICATIONS.
   No permit shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant has on deposit with
the County Treasurer a cash or surety bond as set out hereinbelow indemnifying
the county or any political subdivision within said county for costs incurred
by reason of the expenses of extraordinary law enforcement, damage to public
property, or the costs of providing any extraordinary sanitation or health
services provided or caused by the holding of the activity or activities for
which the permit is applied for. The amount of such bond shall be $5,000 for
gatherings where the total attendance is expected to be less than 5,000 persons
and such amount shall be increased in increments of $2,500 for each additional
2,500 persons expected. The bond or its balance shall be exonerated or returned
when the Board of County Commissioners certify to the County Treasurer that
either:
   (A)   No damage has been done; or
   (B)   The total of such costs or damage in the event such items total less
than the bond amount.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.28 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No permit shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant has furnished
evidence of liability insurance coverage providing a minimum of $100,000 bodily
injury coverage per person, $300,000 bodily injury coverage per occurrence, and
$100,000 property damage coverage, which policy shall name the county as an
additional insured.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who, having obtained a permit hereunder, shall willfully fail
to continue to comply with the conditions herein set forth, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $300 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1972-1, passed 1-24-1972)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST REAL PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Gas-powered engines on Robinson Lake not to exceed 15 horsepower
   
130.02   Disposing of certain items in the county landfill prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 GAS-POWERED ENGINES ON ROBINSON LAKE NOT TO EXCEED 15 HORSEPOWER.
   It shall be lawful to operate any watercraft or boat on Robinson Lake
powered by an internal combustion engine so long as the internal combustion
engine produces no more than 15 horsepower.
(Ord. 2025-3, passed 12-10-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISPOSING OF CERTAIN ITEMS IN THE COUNTY LANDFILL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. This section shall be deemed an exercise of the police power
of the county acting in its governmental capacity for the protection and
preservation of the health, welfare, safety, and cleanliness of the public and
public areas, and all the provisions shall be liberally construed for the
accomplishment of that purpose.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of, or attempt to
dispose of, in any manner, the following at any place other than the county
landfill: furniture, bedsprings, mattresses, bath tubs, toilets, household
appliances occupying over two cubic feet in space, waste from the construction
or deconstruction of any structure or building including, but not limited to,
lumber of any kind, concrete, rock, sand and gravel, heavy and bulk logging
waste, tree limbs, stumps and brush, heavy and bulk farm waste, vegetable and/
or fruit over 100 pounds, fence posts of any kind, wire of any kind, tires,
batteries or battery acids, combustible engines or engine blocks, motor oils,
solvents of any kind, bulk liquids in excess of five gallons, animal carcasses,
processed animal or human excrement except that properly contained within
disposable diapers, any hazardous materials other than household waste. None of
these items shall be disposed of in the county dump boxes.
      (2)   The county landfill and rural monitor sites will take used motor
oil, used antifreeze, glass, newspapers, magazines, cardboard, tin and aluminum
cans, which can be recycled at no cost.
      (3)   Manned rural sites will take wood including tree trimmings, shrubs/
brush, clean untreated/unpainted lumber, metal including wire, household
appliances under two cubic feet, sheet metal, and rims.
      (4)   Any load of wood or metal over two cubic yards must be disposed of
at the county landfill.
      (5)   All persons utilizing the county landfill or any manned or unmanned
collection sites must obey all notices and signs and the directions of site
personnel associated with the disposal of items in the county landfill or any
manned or unmanned rural site.
      (6)   These restrictions may be amended and modified by rules and
regulations adopted by resolution concerning the operation of the county
landfill and any manned or unmanned rural collection site.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 3-19-1996; Ord. 2008-01, passed 11-19-2007) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Solid wastes, see
Ch. 50
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The operation of any watercraft or boat on Robinson Lake powered by an
internal combustion engine producing greater than 15 horsepower as stated in §
130.01 shall be unlawful and shall constitute a misdemeanor offense punishable
by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding six months, a
fine not to exceed $500, or both.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to
a fine of not more than $300 or 90 days in jail, or both. Each act or violation
of any of the provisions in §
130.02 shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 3-19-1996; Ord. 2025-3, passed 12-10-2024)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST REAL PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Real property prohibited uses
   
131.02   Snowmobile Park prohibited uses
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 REAL PROPERTY PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate and provide
penalties for violations of certain uses of county real property.
   (B)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as “Boundary
County Real Properly Prohibited Uses.”
   (C)   Owner of real property. The county is the owner of real property
located in county, as follows: the County Fairgrounds and Park, Deep Creek Boat
Launch, Rocky Point Boat Launch, Copeland Boat Launch, Porthill Boat Launch,
and Riverside Park.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to discharge any
firearm on the properties described in division (C) above belonging to the
county. A FIREARM shall include, but not be limited to, a BB gun, pellet guns,
and any caliber of rifle, handgun, shotgun, semi-automatic, or automatic
firearm.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to camp on the
properties described in division (C) above belonging to the county for more
than three consecutive nights. Nights spent at different locations shall be
considered CONSECUTIVE for purposes of this section, and campers may not evade
this limitation by moving between different campsites owned by the county. The
county reserves the right to alter these requirements at particular locations
as circumstances dictate. Such changes may be accomplished by resolution of the
Board of County Commissioners. If a different requirement is adopted by the
Board of County Commissioners, such requirement shall be in full force and
effect only upon the posting of clear signage at the site in question which
provides the public with notice of the requirements at that location.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own or are
caretaking an animal to leave the animal unattended on the properties described
in division (C) above belonging to the county. All animals shall be required to
be on a leash. The owner or caretaker of the animal shall immediately clean up
any animal defecation and dispose of it in a trash can.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to cause any loud or
obnoxious noises from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. every day on the properties
described in division (C) above belonging to the county. It shall be unlawful
to run a generator for any purpose from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. every day on the
properties described in division (C) above belonging to the county.
      (5)   Any approved activity of the county and/or the County Parks and
Recreation and/or County Fair Board, shall be excluded from provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 2025-2, passed 12-10-2024) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 SNOWMOBILE PARK PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate and provide
penalties for violations of certain uses of the County Snowmobile Park located
in the county.
   (B)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“County Snowmobile Park Prohibited Uses.”
   (C)   Owner of real property. The county is the owner of real property
(commonly referred to as the Snowmobile Park) located in the county more
particularly described as follows: Commencing at the southwest corner of
section 34, township 61 north, range one west, thence north along the west line
of said section 34 a distance of 484 feet to a point, thence east 450 feet to a
point, thence south 484 feet to the south section line, thence west along south
line a distance of 450 feet to a point of beginning containing approximately
five acres.
   (D)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to discharge any
firearm. A FIREARM shall include, but not be limited to, a BB gun, pellet guns,
and any caliber of rifle, handgun, shotgun, semi-automatic, or automatic
firearm.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to camp on the
property for more than three consecutive nights.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons who own or are
caretaking an animal to leave the animal unattended. All animals shall be
required to be on a leash. The owner or caretaker of the animal shall
immediately clean up any animal defecation and dispose of it in a trash can.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to cause any loud or
obnoxious noises from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. everyday. It shall be unlawful to
run a generator for any purpose from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. everyday.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 8-25-2014) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of §
131.01 shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $300,
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six months, or both
fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   The violation of any provision of §
131.02 shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $300,
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six months, or both
fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 8-25-2014; Ord. 2025-2, passed 12-10-2024)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   ROAD STANDARDS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   STREET NAMING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Land Use Policy Plan
   
150.01   Preamble
   
150.02   Scope and purpose
   
150.03   Land disposition and land uses
   
150.04   Water resources
   
150.05   Agriculture
   
150.06   Timber and wood products
   
150.07   Cultural, resources, recreation, wildlife, and wilderness
   
150.08   Mineral resources
   
150.09   Transportation and access
   
150.10   Monitoring and compliance
   
150.11   Rules and regulations
Agricultural Protection Area
   
150.25   Purpose
   
150.26   Definitions
   
150.27   Agricultural Protection Area Commission
   
150.28   Criteria for agricultural protection area
   
150.29   Applications
   
150.30   Review process
   
150.31   Expansion or modification of an APA
   
150.32   Termination of an APA
   
150.33   Enrollment duration and review
   
150.34   Fees
   
150.35   Enforcement and prohibitions
Areas of Impact
   
150.50   City of Bonners Ferry
   
150.51   City of Moyie Springs
**** LAND USE POLICY PLAN ****
§ 150.01 PREAMBLE.
   “We, the people of Boundary County, State of Idaho, accept, support and
sustain the Constitutions of the United States and of the State of Idaho. We
have demanded through our elected legislature and governor that the federal
government comply with the Constitution of the United States, Article One,
Section Eight, which limits the authority of the federal government to specific
lands, and we hereby reaffirm our demand that all lands in Boundary County not
so specifically designated be relinquished to the citizens thereof.
   Further, we reaffirm the fundamental rights of mankind as enumerated in the
Declaration of Independence and acknowledge the limited nature of government as
intended by the nation’s founding fathers. Based on these cherished traditions,
we declare that all natural resource decisions affecting Boundary County shall
be guided by the principles of protecting private property rights, economic
structures through self-determination, and opening new economic opportunities
through reliance of free markets. Resource decisions made in this manner will
enhance environmental quality.”
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.02 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The County Interim Land Use Policy Plan is the county land use plan
developed by the county government to guide the use of public lands and public
resources in the county and to protect the rights of private landowners.
   (B)   Federal and state lands make up a substantial part of the county.
Moreover, the county’s economy, tax base, and community stability are dependent
on business activities on federal and state lands. These activities are
inseparably tied to the small fraction of private patented lands in the county.
   (C)   The nature and intent of the county’s government land use planning is
to protect the custom and culture of county citizens through protection of
private property rights, the facilitation of a free market economy, and the
establishment of a process to ensure self-determination by local communities
and individuals.
   (D)   It is therefore necessary to develop and implement land use planning
mechanisms that focus on federal and state land uses and activities. The
Interim Land Use Policy Plan is an interim set of policies that shall provide a
general planning framework to remain in effect until a permanent County
Comprehensive Land Use Plan is developed and approved by the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (E)   The Interim Plan addresses federal and state land use management
issues directly and is intended to be used as a positive guide for federal and
state land management agencies in their development and implementation of those
actions. The Board of County Commissioners, when affected by such actions,
shall be consulted and coordinated with in accordance with the laws of the
state and the laws of the United States. Such consultation shall occur prior to
adoption and implementation and shall continue at all stages thereafter.
   (F)   Finally, in compliance with federal and state law, including, but not
limited to, the Federal Land Management and Policy Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. §§
1701-1787, and the National Forest Management Act, 16 U.S.C. §§ 1600-1614, all
federal and state agencies shall comply with the County Land Use Policy Plan
and coordinate with the Board of County Commissioners for the purpose of
planning and managing federal and state lands within the geographic boundaries
of the county. Federal and state agencies proposing actions that will impact
the County Land Use Policy Plan shall prepare and submit in writing, and in a
timely manner, report(s) on the purposes, objectives, and estimated impacts of
such actions, including economic, to the Board of County Commissioners. These
report(s) shall be provided to the Board of County Commissioners for review and
coordination prior to federal or state initiation of action.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.03 LAND DISPOSITION AND LAND USES.
   Recognizing that land is essential to local industry and residents, it shall
be the policy of this county that the design and development of all federal and
state land disposals, including land adjustments and exchanges, be carried out
to the benefit of the citizens of the county. It shall be the policy of this
county that the use of all federal and state lands shall be managed and
implemented to maximize the benefits to the citizens of the county. Including:
   (A)   Increase opportunities for local economic development by increasing
the amount of patented and non-federal land within the county;
   (B)   Federal land agencies shall not acquire any private lands or rights in
private lands within the county without first ensuring:
      (1)   As a minimum, parity in land ownership status is maintained; and
      (2)   Private property interests are protected and enhanced.
   (C)   Federally managed lands that are difficult to manage or which lie in
isolated tracts shall be targeted for disposal;
   (D)   The general public and local communities shall be notified of,
consulted with, and otherwise involved in all federal and state land adjustment
whether it be by proposed disposal, exchange, or proposed change in use. This
shall specifically include, but is not limited to, any proposed changes in
wildlife habitat, wildlife recovery plans, timber sales volume projections,
restricted access, road closures, and primitive or wilderness designation. The
county concurrence shall be required prior to any such land adjustments.
Further, the county shall be the lead planning agency in all federal and state
land adjustments occurring within the county’s political boundaries. In
addition, such proposed actions, including federally proposed wild and scenic
river designations, shall be coordinated with the Board of County Commissioners
and any county water and land use plans prior to adoption and implementation.
It is the intent of the county to assist federal and state agencies in the
planning and management of the county’s natural, cultural, and economic
resources. Federal and state agencies shall coordinate their management
activities and plans with the Board of County Commissioners;
   (E)   The county shall determine land withdrawals for hazardous and non-
hazardous waste storage as well as the types and points of origin of such
waste; and
   (F)   Before federal and state land agencies can change land use, adverse
impact studies on uses shall be conducted and mitigation measures adopted with
concurrence from the county. Adverse impact studies shall address community
stability, local custom and culture, effect on local economy and tax base,
class A and B grazing rights, floodplain areas, and public and private access.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.04 WATER RESOURCES.
   The county recognizes that the protection and development of its water
resources are essential to its short- and long-term economic and cultural
viability.
   (A)   The protection of existing water rights and water uses within the
county is of primary importance to the county’s economic and cultural well-
being. Therefore, transfers in water use should be carefully considered in
relationship to the history, traditions, and culture of the county. Any
federally proposed designation of wild and scenic rivers and all federal
policies regarding riparian management in the county shall be coordinated with
the Board of County Commissioners and shall comply with any county water use
plan. In addition, the county shall prepare plans for the protection of all
aquatic threatened and endangered species within its boundaries. Federal and
state agencies managing waterways and wetlands containing such species shall
coordinate their management activities and plans with the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   The county recognizes existing water rights and promotes future water
use for agricultural, municipal, industrial, domestic, recreation, and
hydroelectric power purposes.
   (C)   The county government shall be notified of all state, interstate, and
federal actions that have any impact on the water of the county prior to such
actions being initiated. In addition, such proposed actions, including
federally proposed wild and scenic river designations, shall be coordinated
with the Board of County Commissioners and any county water and land use plans
prior to adoption and implementation. It is the intent of the county to assist
federal and state agencies in the planning and management of the county’s
natural, cultural, and economic resources.
   (D)   The county may develop wild and scenic river designations of its own
design and shall require full federal compliance in the acceptance and
enforcement of such designations. In addition, the county may develop riparian
management plans in concert and coordination with landowners, ranches, and the
appropriate state and federal agencies.
   (E)   The county recognizes the principles of all water laws contained in
the Idaho Code.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.05 AGRICULTURE.
   The custom and culture associated with agricultural production in the county
is necessary to the livelihood and well-being of its citizens. Therefore, it is
the policy of the county to protect agricultural land and promote the
continuation of agricultural pursuits by protecting private property rights,
relying on self-determination, and ensuring open market conditions.
Opportunities for grazing livestock on federal and state lands should be
continued at levels consistent with custom and culture and the protection of
equitable property rights. Federal and state land managing agencies shall
coordinate with the Board of County Commissioners on all matters affecting
livestock grazing on public lands.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.06 TIMBER AND WOOD PRODUCTS.
   The custom and culture associated with timber and wood products production
in the county is necessary to the livelihood and well-being of its citizens.
Therefore, it is the policy of the county to protect timber resources and
promote the continuation of a sustainable growth in the wood products industry
by providing economic opportunity, relying on self-determination, and ensuring
open market condition.
   (A)   The county shall promote timber sale sizes large and small that
provide opportunities for a wide spectrum of logging and contractors that
allows for local entrepreneurship.
   (B)   The county may explore market and incentive systems to reduce
administrative and harvest costs on federal and state lands.
   (C)   The county may examine and implement programs based on market and
incentive systems to increase the profitability of harvesting small-diameter
timber stands.
   (D)   Opportunities for a sustainable pattern of growth in the wood products
industry shall be returned to levels consistent with custom and culture and as
affected by prevailing market conditions.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.07 CULTURAL, RESOURCES, RECREATION, WILDLIFE, AND WILDERNESS.
   The county shall promote and facilitate public and private recreational,
cultural, wilderness, and wildlife opportunities compatible with local custom
and culture and within the constraints of private property rights and local
self-determination.
   (A)   The county shall establish a Threatened and Endangered Species
Committee for overseeing protection and recovery of all federal and state
listed threatened or endangered species.
   (B)   The county shall establish a County Wildlife Committee. Federal and
state land and wildlife management and enforcement agencies shall coordinate
with that Committee on all matters regarding wildlife.
   (C)   No wilderness areas shall be designated in the county.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.08 MINERAL RESOURCES.
   The county recognizes that the development of its mineral resources is
desirable and necessary. The county supports retention of and compliance with
the 1872 Mining Law, 30 U.S.C. §§ 22-54.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.09 TRANSPORTATION AND ACCESS.
   The county shall develop and maintain a network of county roads that
optimize accessibility within the county and minimize the cost of movement
between all communities and across public lands. Access to and across federal
and state lands shall not entail encumbrances or restrictions on private
property rights.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.10 MONITORING AND COMPLIANCE.
   The county shall develop monitoring and compliance standards to evaluate the
Interim Land Use Plan and to ensure consistency between federal and state
actions and activities and the land use requirements enumerated herein.
   (A)   The county shall monitor the condition of grazing lands, timber lands,
wildlife, waters, and wetlands. Federal and state agencies shall coordinate
with the county in the collection of all monitoring data and in the analysis of
all resource conditions.
   (B)   The county shall enforce compliance with this Interim Land Use Plan
and shall monitor consistency between federal and state actions and activities
and the land use requirements enumerated herein.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 150.11 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall adopt such rules and regulations as
may be necessary to implement and effectuate this subchapter.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 8-3-1992)
**** AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA ****
§ 150.25 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for a voluntary process through
which agricultural and timber producers of the county may apply to designate
lands actively devoted to agriculture for future agricultural use in an
Agricultural Protection Area (APA). The APA provides an opportunity to protect
and enhance the economic and cultural benefits that working lands provide by
promoting proactive planning tools for landowners and governing bodies to
maintain and enhance the economic value of working lands without impacting the
property of those who do not want to participate in this opportunity. This
subchapter establishes the process to create Agricultural Protection Areas.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION. Activities or conditions conducted on land actively
devoted to agriculture as defined in Idaho Code § 63-604, or on forest land as
defined in Idaho Code § 63-1701.
   AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA (APA). Specific parcels of land in a designated
geographic area voluntarily created under the authority of this subchapter for
the purpose of protecting and preserving agricultural land.
   AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION. The advisory board to the governing
body created pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-9705.
   APPLICANT. Anyone who owns five contiguous acres or more of land that has
been in active agricultural or forest production for the previous three
consecutive years, consistent with the provisions of Idaho Code §§ 63-604 and
63-1701, and who voluntarily applies for that land to be part of an
Agricultural Protection Area.
   AREA OF CITY IMPACT/AREA OF IMPACT. Area designated by county ordinance
where city growth and development are expected to occur.
   HARDSHIP. A situation or circumstance over which a landowner in an
Agricultural Protection Area has no control, including, but not limited to, an
adverse result in litigation against the farm or landowner, death of a close
family member that would lead to unanticipated financial hardships, significant
tax liabilities, bankruptcy due to another person’s fraud, or any other illegal
activity.
   PROPOSAL. Written documents submitted to a governing body or Agricultural
Protection Area Commission from landowner(s) regarding his, her, or their
property.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.27 AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint five members actively
employed by or supporting production agriculture in the county to serve on the
county’s Agricultural Protection Area Commission. Members may include
representatives from the Local Soil and Water Conservation District Board of
Supervisors, the Local Cattlemen’s Association Board, the County Farm Bureau
Board, an Irrigation District or Water Users Association Board, or a Grower/
Commodity Association or Commission Board, to serve as the Agricultural
Protection Area Commission for the county.
   (B)   Terms of office for the Commission shall be: For the first appointed
members to the newly created Commission, two members shall be appointed to
four-year terms and three shall be appointed to six-year terms. Thereafter,
terms shall be set at six years.
   (C)   As part of its duties, the Commission shall provide for meetings and
hearings to obtain advice on the agricultural needs of the county. The
Commission may also conduct informal meetings with public officials and
agencies, agricultural professionals, educational professionals, and other
organizations to evaluate the agricultural needs of the county.
   (D)   The Commission may make recommendations to the Board of County
Commissioners concerning the process by which the Agricultural Protection Area
Commission will accept, review, and offer recommendations regarding
Agricultural Protection Area proposals to the Board of County Commissioners,
including the nature and type of information provided by applicants and the
evaluation criteria required to review agricultural protection area
applications.
   (E)   The Commission shall review applications for inclusion in an
Agricultural Protection Area pursuant to the this subchapter and make
recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners regarding such
applications.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.28 CRITERIA FOR AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION AREA.
   An APA designation is a voluntary land use designation available to
landowners who wish to protect their agricultural land from future
nonagricultural development. To qualify for an APA designation, the land must
be:
   (A)   At least five contiguous acres;
   (B)   Actively devoted to an agricultural or forest purpose;
   (C)   Assessed as agriculture or forest land; and
   (D)   Located within a zone that allows for agricultural or forest use.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.29 APPLICATIONS.
   Landowners wishing to establish an APA on their land must submit an
application to the County Planning Department. At a minimum, the application
shall include the following:
   (A)   Name, phone number, email, and mailing address of the landowner;
   (B)   Proof of land ownership;
   (C)   A legal description of the parcels, structures, and facilities
proposed to be included in the APA;
   (D)   A map showing the boundaries of the proposed APA;
   (E)   A statement outlining the current contiguous acreages of land, land
use, agricultural productivity, and other relevant characteristics of the land
to be included in the APA;
   (F)   The number of years the land has been in agricultural or forest
production, the types of agricultural or forest commodities produced, and the
applicant’s plan to continue using the land for agricultural or forest
purposes;
   (G)   The stated reasons for seeking an APA designation;
   (H)   Application fee, as established by the official fee schedule;
   (I)   Soil surveys, water rights, and any other relevant environmental
assessments; and
   (J)   Any additional, relevant information the Commission may request to
properly review the application.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.30 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the Planning Department shall
transmit the application to the APA Commission, who shall review the proposal
and make a recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners within 60 days
of receiving the application. The application shall be evaluated on the
following criteria:
      (1)   The total contiguous acreage of the land is at least five acres in
size and is actively devoted to agricultural or forest production;
      (2)   Adjacence to an existing area of city impact/area of impact;
      (3)   Possible conflict with existing city annexation or development
plans or agreements;
      (4)   Proximity to existing public rights-of-way;
      (5)   Proximity to planned transportation corridors or future public
rights-of-way;
      (6)   Proximity to planned airport expansion or development;
      (7)   Proximity to planned development with existing entitlements;
      (8)   Agricultural production capability of the land within the proposed
APA; and
      (9)   Other local impacts relevant to the proposed APA.
   (B)   Once the APA Commission makes its recommendation to the Board of
County Commissioners, the Board of County Commissioners shall hold a public
hearing in accord with the notice and hearing procedures of Idaho Code § 67-
6509 and shall issue its decision to approve or deny the application within 60
days. Failure to make a decision within 60 days of receiving the Commission’s
recommendation shall render the APA Commission’s recommendation final.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the criteria and review process outlined in this code,
the Board of County Commissioners may place additional conditions on lands
designated as an APA, including, but not limited to, setbacks from existing
public rights-of-way, setbacks from existing public structures, and a review of
the land’s APA designation after 20 years.
   (D)   Upon making its decision to either approve or deny, the Board of
County Commissioners shall provide the applicant with a written decision and
shall:
      (1)   Provide, if the APA is approved, the decision shall include:
         (a)   The date of the APA creation;
         (b)   A legal description of the subject property;
         (c)   The findings of the Agricultural Protection Commission;
         (d)   The decision of the Board of Commissioners and the facts and
reasoned statement supporting the decision;
         (e)   Notice that the APA is established for 20 years and will
automatically renew for another 20 years, unless the landowner provides written
notice of the desire to terminate the APA, in accord with the procedures of the
Agricultural Protection Area Act, Idaho Code §§ 67-4501 through 67-4512; and
         (f)   Identification of the limitations and protections established by
the creation of the APA, as provided in the Agricultural Protection Area Act,
Idaho Code §§ 67-4501 through 67-4512.
      (2)   Have the Clerk of the Board of County Commissioners file with the
County Recorder the executed, written decision of the Board, within ten days of
the approval of the APA designation by the Board;
      (3)   Notify relevant public officials and agencies of the designation;
and
      (4)   Submit the decision of approval to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for inclusion in the future land use comprehensive plan map as a
designated Agricultural Protection Area, pursuant to the procedures of Idaho
Code §§ 67-6508 and 67-6509.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.31 EXPANSION OR MODIFICATION OF AN APA.
   An expansion, modification, or removal of an existing APA shall follow the
same application, review, and hearing procedures outlined in this code. Any
expansion of an APA shall be contiguous to the APA.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.32 TERMINATION OF AN APA.
   If a hardship exists, as defined by this code, landowners may request
termination of their APA by filing a written request with the Board of County
Commissioners and identifying the cause of the hardship. Early termination may
be granted only upon landowner proof of the undue hardship. The landowner
seeking to terminate an APA bears the burden of proof in demonstrating the
hardship. The request for termination shall be considered by the Board of
County Commissioners at a regularly scheduled meeting not less than 60 days
after the written request is filed. The landowner shall reimburse the county
for the costs to terminate the APA, if granted.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.33 ENROLLMENT DURATION AND REVIEW.
   Lands designated as an APA will remain so designated for a period of 20
years and shall automatically renew for another 20 years unless notified by the
landowner that they wish to terminate the APA. A landowner wishing to end an
approved APA designation after 20 years must notify the Board of County
Commissioners in writing of his, her, or their desire not to renew the land’s
APA designation. Failure of the landowner to notify the county, or failure of
the county to review the APA terms, will result in the APA designation
continuing for another 20 years.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.34 FEES.
   An application fee shall be required to cover administrative costs,
including, but not limited to, reviewing materials, conducting public meetings
and hearings, processing and recording documents, and updating county land use
maps.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.35 ENFORCEMENT AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise approved by the Board of County Commissioners, the
following land uses are not allowed within an APA:
      (1)   The siting of large, confined animal feeding operations (CAFOs);
      (2)   The siting of commercial, manufacturing, and industrial uses;
      (3)   The siting of solar energy or wind energy generating facilities
such as wind or solar farms, or battery storage structures; or
      (4)   Any other nonagricultural land uses.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners or designated code enforcement staff
shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2025-4, passed 12-16-2024)
**** AREAS OF IMPACT ****
§ 150.50 CITY OF BONNERS FERRY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish an Area of Impact
(AOI) for the City of Bonners Ferry, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6526. An AREA
OF IMPACT is an area where growth and development are expected to occur. Lands
within the Area of Impact remain within the jurisdiction of the county. The
city will be afforded the opportunity to comment on land use applications
within the AOI.
   (B)   Criteria.
      (1)   Idaho Code § 67-6526(4) sets forth the criteria for establishing an
AOI, which includes division (a):
         (a)   Anticipated commercial and residential growth;
         (b)   Geographic factors;
         (c)   Transportation infrastructure and systems, including
connectivity;
         (d)   Areas where municipal or public sewer and water are expected to
be provided within five years; and
         (e)   Other public service district boundaries.
      (2)   And division (b): The areas that are very likely to be annexed to
the city within the next five years and area that does not extend more than two
miles from the existing city limits.
   (C)   Adoption of Area of Impact Map for Bonners Ferry. The Area of Impact
Map for the city shall be as depicted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78279f4ef451da11268a9d76c697e1a8a6b69f84/
IMAGES/0-0-0-779.png]
 
   (D)   Jurisdiction. The county’s adopted comprehensive plan, land use
regulations, flood damage prevention codes, road standards, and any other
county laws, policies, or regulations related to land use development shall
apply within the adopted Area of Impact. The county has the authority to
administer all land use permits, applications, and enforcement within the
established Area of Impact.
   (E)   Coordination with the city. The county shall notify the city of any
proposed county land use applications within the AOI that require public
hearings, including subdivisions, variances, conditional use permits, road
vacations, text amendments, mapping amendments, comprehensive plan updates, or
zone changes. The county shall provide the notice and invitation to comment on
the land use proposal not later than 15 days prior to the public hearing. The
city shall have the right to suggest terms and conditions pertinent to the
application being considered, relative to the effects of the development on the
Area of Impact. The county may consider the city recommendations in making its
land use decisions, but is not bound by the city comments.
   (F)   Modifications. The county and city shall review the established AOI at
least every five years to determine whether any modifications are warranted.
Modifications may be initiated by the city or county sooner than five years if
changes in growth patterns, service needs, or other issues warrant a re-
examination of the AOI boundaries. The procedures for consideration of a
modification to the AOI boundaries shall be as set forth in Idaho Code § 67-
6526.
(Ord. 2025-5, passed 9-22-2025)
§ 150.51 CITY OF MOYIE SPRINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to confirm that no Area of
Impact (AOI) is being established for the City of Moyie Springs because the
city cannot meet the criteria for an AOI as required by Idaho Code § 67-6526.
   (B)   Boundaries of the Area of Impact. No Area of Impact boundary or map is
being established for the City of Moyie Springs.
(Ord. 2026-1, passed 2-10-2026)
CHAPTER 151: ROAD STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Definitions
Utility Construction Permits and Standards
   
151.015   Applicability
   
151.016   General
   
151.017   Design drawings
   
151.018   Standards for utility placement and construction
   
151.019   Above ground utilities
   
151.020   Restoration requirements
   
151.021   Public safety
Approach Permits and Standards (Driveways and Road Approaches)
   
151.035   Applicability
   
151.036   General
   
151.037   Standards
   
151.038   Restoration requirements
   
151.039   Figures
Standards for New Road Construction
   
151.050   General requirements
   
151.051   Roadway classification
   
151.052   Rights-of-way requirements
   
151.053   Design criteria
   
151.054   Road structure schedule
   
151.055   Drainage
   
151.056   Signage
   
151.057   Guardrail or barrier
   
151.058   Clearing and grubbing
   
151.059   Subgrade
   
151.060   Sub-base (Ballast)
   
151.061   Base materials
   
151.062   Surfacing
   
151.063   Required submittals; specifications for drawings
   
151.064   Required inspection and information checklist
   
151.065   Figures
Mailboxes and Newspaper Delivery Boxes
   
151.080   Applicability
   
151.081   Standards
   
151.082   Location
   
151.083   Removal and liability
Variances
   
151.095   Deciding body
   
151.096   Applicability
   
151.097   Duration of permit
   
151.098   Administration
   
151.099   Applicable fee for application of variances
   
151.100   Final decision
 
 
   
151.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to identify and define standards for
construction of new roads proposed for dedication to and maintenance by the
county. Also included in this chapter are construction standards for new or
existing private road and driveway approaches, which enter upon or already
exist within rights-of-way owned by the county or onto roads maintained by the
county, but not within dedicated rights-of-way, and for the construction and
maintenance of utilities within county-owned rights-of-way or other roadways
maintained by the county but not necessarily within dedicated rights-of-way.
   (B)   New roads constructed in accordance with these standards may be
recommended for inclusion into the county road system and upon a finding of
public need by the Board of County Commissioners under Idaho Code § 40-202 may
be accepted for maintenance by the county. Nothing in these standards shall be
binding upon the county in the routine maintenance, construction, or re-
construction of its road system. It is recognized that many roads already
existing in the system cannot, for various reasons be reasonably brought up to
these standards. Rather, it is the intention of this chapter and its related
ordinance(s) to ensure that, in accordance with the county’s comprehensive
plan, county highways continue to provide high levels of service at the lowest
possible cost to the public.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROACH. Any vehicular entrance upon a county right-of-way, other than a
“driveway.”
   COUNTY. Boundary County, Idaho.
   COUNTY RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any road right-of-way owned by the
county or proposed for dedication to the county or roads maintained by the
county, but not within dedicated rights-of-way.
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicular entrance upon a county right-of-way or a county-
maintained roadway which provides access to a four-plex or smaller multi-family
dwelling or two or fewer single-family residences.
   NEW ROAD. Any road built for dedication as a public road within the county
road system. It shall not be deemed to include existing public roads within the
county highway system, nor road construction or reconstruction undertaken by
the county.
   PROJECT ENGINEER. A registered professional engineer, licensed in the state
and who is retained to design, construct, or supervise the construction of a
new road.
   ROAD AND BRIDGE SUPERINTENDENT. The County Road and Bridge Superintendent.
   ROAD SURFACE, ROADWAY. The travelway and the road shoulders on each side.
   SLOPE. The angle of incline expressed as a percentage which, is derived by
dividing the measured height from base to top, by the horizontal distance from
base to top.
   TRAVELWAY. The portion of a county right-of-way which has been improved for
the movement of vehicles, exclusive of shoulders.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
**** UTILITY CONSTRUCTION PERMITS AND STANDARDS ****
§ 151.015 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Prior to the start of construction of public or private utility
projects within the county rights-of-way, the applicant or utility shall obtain
a permit for such use from the County Road and Bridge Department. The permit
shall be applied for and granted in the name of the utility, not an individual,
unless the utility is a privately owned utility. The fee for a utility
construction permit is set by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   This standard hereby adopts ISPWC (Idaho Standards for Public Works
Construction) trenching standards (Division 300) in its entirety.
   (C)   A utilities permit is required whenever any trenching/boring or pole/
pedestal placement is necessary within county rights-of-way or onto roads
maintained by the county, even if a permit has been granted for previous work
in the same location. The approved permit must be on-site any time work is
proceeding. Other work such as brushing that requires traffic control (signs,
flaggers, and the like) requires notifying the County Road and Bridge
Department 48 hours prior to commencing work. In the event of an emergency, the
permittee must immediately notify the Sheriff’s office at 267-3151 and the
County Road and Bridge Department at 267-3838.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.016 GENERAL.
   (A)   Not all county-maintained roads exist within a county-owned right-of-
way, some are prescriptive only. The county, by issuance of the permit, makes
no representation as to existence, location, or width of right-of-way. It is
the grantees responsibility to determine these items. Though a permit is
required on all rights-of-way and publicly maintained roads (deeded or
prescriptive), the grantee is responsible for notifying any affected property
owners and obtaining whatever private easements are necessary. If there is a
question whether the work is within the public right-of-way, a permit shall be
required, or the utility shall provide evidence to the County Road and Bridge
Department to verify that the work is occurring on private property.
   (B)   Utility installations shall be located to minimize the need for later
adjustment, to accommodate future roadway improvements, and to provide service
access to such installation with minimum interference to roadway traffic.
Utility companies shall make specific inquiries as to long-range county road
improvement plans in order to minimize both utility customer and road user
inconvenience should further road improvements (on existing or new alignment)
require adjustment or relocating of the utility. The county reserves the right
to require the grantee to change the location or to remove any structure,
structures, lines, or pipes authorized by this permit at any time in order for
the county to perform any needed work on or in the right-of-way, said change or
removal to be made at the sole expense of the grantee or their successors or
assigns.
   (C)   If the grantee does not complete the work to the county’s
specifications, the county may fix the deficiencies and bill the grantee. The
county reserves the right to refuse the issuance of a permit if previous
projects have not been completed to the county’s satisfaction or required
conditions have not been met.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.017 DESIGN DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Prior to the start of construction, the applicant or utility shall
submit design drawings showing the location of any poles, lines, piping,
culverts, or any structure or facility located or to be located within the
county right-of-way. Work shall not begin until the design drawings have been
approved in writing. The drawings shall indicate these locations with respect
to the road surface, shoulders, and ditches, the right-of-way line, bridges,
culverts, drainage structures, driveways, road intersections, and any other
road improvement structure within the right-of-way. The drawings must be
approved by the County Road and Bridge Department before a permit is issued.
The drawings shall, at a minimum, contain the following:
      (1)   Project name and number;
      (2)   North Arrow;
      (3)   Scale;
      (4)   Distance of installation from shoulder of road (minimum ten feet
unless specifically approved due to site characteristics);
      (5)   Distance or installation from right-of-way (maximum of five feet
unless specifically approved due to site characteristics);
      (6)   Depth of installation (from bottom of ditch);
      (7)   Section drawings of any road crossings or joint trenches (road
crossings shall be approximately 90 degrees);
      (8)   Compaction requirements (in accordance with latest edition of
ISPWC);
      (9)   Location of all valves, hydrants, services, pedestals, poles, and
the like;
      (10)   Above ground markings and locator tape or wire; and
      (11)   Traffic control plan or signs.
   (B)   As-built drawings showing accurate locations of all elements of the
project are to be submitted to the County Road and Bridge Department within 45
days of completion of the project and will be maintained in the road files.
   (C)   All construction shall proceed in compliance with the standards set
forth in this section, the latest edition of the ISPWC, the terms of the
construction permit and the approved design drawings submitted. Depending on
the complexity of the project, the County Road and Bridge Department may, at
its discretion, require that design drawings bear the stamp of a licensed
engineer.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.018 STANDARDS FOR UTILITY PLACEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Utility lines shall be installed under the road surface using
techniques which do not require a cut through the road surface, such as
tunneling, burrowing, or driven pipe. It is county policy that unless site
characteristics prohibit, all utility crossings on roads with a hard surface
shall be accomplished in a manner that will not disturb the surfacing.
   (B)   Utility line crossings of a road should be as near a right angle
(normal) to the road centerline as practicable.
   (C)   Longitudinal installation should be located as near as practicable to
the right-of-way line and on uniform line and grade. With exception to utility
line crossings, no utilities shall be installed under the roadway.
   (D)   Spoils shall be cast away from the roadway whenever practicable. The
roadway must be swept or otherwise cleaned at the end of each working day. All
trenches left open at the end of the day shall have barricades in accordance
with the latest edition of the MUTCD (“Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices”). A maximum of 50 feet of open trench will be allowed at the end of
the working day.
   (E)   If, in the determination of the County Road and Bridge Department or
the project engineer, weather conditions prohibit proper installation, work
shall be stopped.
   (F)   Where utility cables, water lines, and sewer lines cross a road or
right-of-way such cables and lines shall be encased in a conduit or secondary
encasement extending two feet beyond the ditch line or to the edge of any fill
within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.019 ABOVE GROUND UTILITIES.
   (A)   Power poles and other above ground utility objects should be placed
outside of the defined clear zone areas. They shall utilize a breakaway design
to the greatest extent possible. Installation of power poles and other above
ground utility objects will not be permitted in sidewalks, or pedestrian/
bicycle pathways.
   (B)   Location of poles shall be compatible with driveways, intersections,
and other roadway features (i.e., they shall not interfere with sight distance,
roadway signing, traffic signals, culverts, and the like) Where possible,
utilities shall share facilities so that a minimum number of poles are needed.
   (C)   Whenever practicable, relocation of poles or obstacles shall be made
away from the existing roadway. Costs of relocating poles or obstacles to
achieve these standards are the responsibility of the developer whose project
necessitates compliance with these standards. This is not intended to prevent
the developer from making financial arrangements with an appropriate utility or
other owner of the obstacle to accomplish removal of the pole or obstacle.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.020 RESTORATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Existing drainage ditches, culverts, and the like, shall be kept clean
at all times and temporary diversion of any drainage system will not be
permitted without the consent of the County Road and Bridge Department. Any
drainage culvert, catch basin, manhole, or other drainage structures disturbed
by excavation shall be replaced with new material or repaired to the
satisfaction of the County Road and Bridge Department. Temporary erosion/
sedimentation control measures shall be employed to protect adjacent property
and storm drain facilities in accordance with best management practices.
   (B)   Any disturbance of the travel surface, shoulders, ditches drainage, or
traffic control devices shall be repaired and restored to its prior condition
or better. If trenches or pavement settling should occur within two years of
the installation of the utility, repairs shall be made by the applicant or
utility as directed by the County Road and Bridge Department and at no cost to
the county. If the applicant fails to make the necessary repairs, the county
may initiate the repair and bill the applicant or utility to make the necessary
repairs. No new construction permits within county rights-of-way will be issued
to the applicant or utility until such claim has been settled.
   (C)   Upon completion of construction of the lines and facilities, all
rubbish and debris shall be immediately removed and the roadway and the
roadside shall be left neat and presentable to the satisfaction of the county.
   (D)   All areas within the county right-of-way which have been disturbed or
denuded of vegetation shall be re-seeded in accordance to ISPWC standards as
soon as possible after utility construction is completed to the satisfaction of
the County Road and Bridge Department.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.021 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No construction work shall be started on utility placement until the
County Road and Bridge Department has given notice to the applicant or utility
to proceed. The Sheriff’s office shall be notified by the applicant or utility
of the date(s) and time(s) of full or partial road closures associated with the
utility placement to allow for any rerouting of emergency vehicles that may be
necessary. The applicant or utility shall publish a notice of any full road
closures in a locally distributed newspaper at least two weeks in advance of
the closure, stating the date and location of the closure, and the estimated
duration of the closure. The applicant or utility shall also post sign on the
road where a full closure is to occur at least two weeks prior to the closure
notifying the traveling public of the dates, times, and duration of the
closures. Alternative forms of public notification may be considered on local
access dead end roads. These alternatives shall be approved by the County Road
and Bridge Department at least two weeks prior to the closure.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the County Road and Bridge Department, weather
conditions deteriorate to the point where the traveled roadways are unsafe for
the public or detrimental to the restoration of the roadway, excavation shall
cease immediately and cleanup shall be promptly accomplished.
   (C)   During construction, work barricades, lights, and other traffic
control devices shall be erected and maintained as may as necessary to conform
to the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” and in accordance with the
approved traffic control plan.
   (D)   Equipment parking and materials storage shall be as far from the road
surface as feasible in a location approved by the County Road and Bridge
Department. Equipment or materials left overnight within 30 feet of the road
surface shall be marked and/or protected, so as not to constitute a hazard to
the traveling public. This section shall not be constructed to authorize
trespassing upon private lands adjacent to county roads or rights-of-way for
the purpose of construction, equipment parking, or materials storage.
   (E)   Any equipment used on a project in the county must be cleaned prior to
entering the county to ensure that no noxious weeds are brought into the
county.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
**** APPROACH PERMITS AND STANDARDS (DRIVEWAYS AND ROAD APPROACHES) ****
§ 151.035 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   A permit shall be required for construction of all new approaches to
county roads, and for existing approaches thereto which are altered in any way.
The permits are to be issued by the County Road and Bridge Superintendent of
the county. Applications shall be accompanied by a drawing showing the design
and location of the approach and any culverts, traffic control devices, or
other structures associated with the approach construction. A vicinity map
shall accompany the application showing the location of the county right-of-
way, and the travelway for a distance of 400 feet in each direction from the
new access. Other intersections, approaches, and driveways shall be shown upon
the vicinity map. From the date of receipt of a complete permit application, an
initial inspection will be made by the County Road and Bridge Superintendent
within 15 business days. Construction shall not begin until the permit has been
issued.
   (B)   This standard hereby adopts all requirements and instructions on the
approach permit.
   (C)   It is the applicant’s responsibility to contact One-Call prior to the
start of construction at 1-800-626-4950.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, the term APPROACH shall be used to
mean all entrances and intersections for three or more residences or any
commercial or industrial access including temporary or permanent logging roads.
The term DRIVEWAY shall be used to mean an entrance for two or less residences.
   (E)   The standards within this section shall be applicable to the portion
of new entrances located within a county right-of-way, or entering upon a
county-maintained road.
   (F)   Any changes in the type of surfacing or use shall require a permit.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.036 GENERAL.
   (A)   Access to state highways is regulated by the State Transportation
Department (ITD). The property owner is responsible to coordinate with ITD for
satisfactory completion of any requirements.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to restrict access onto county roads. In
new subdivisions, the developer may be required to provide joint access to lots
with frontage of less than 300 feet. Corner lots will be required to access on
the roadway with the lowest classification and as close as practicable to the
property line most distant from the intersection. All construction of accesses
shall conform with the standards within this section and with the terms of the
permit issued.
   (C)   Accesses shall be designed so that backing maneuvers from or onto a
public road will not occur.
   (D)   A traffic impact study may be required for multi-family residences,
commercial or industrial accesses. The costs of the study shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
   (E)   The county retains the right to review safety issues and concerns on
all public roads under its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 151.037 STANDARDS.
   The portion of any new access with a county right-of-way or entering onto
county-maintained roadways shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   The location, design, and configuration of the access shall conform to
the specifications and dimensions shown in §
151.039.
   (B)   Whenever possible, no new access on collectors or arterial roads shall
be located within 330 feet of an existing access, or the intersection of two
public rights-of-way. Whenever possible, access on local roads shall not be
located within 200 feet from an existing access or the intersection of two
public rights-of way. Locate accesses directly across from existing accesses
whenever possible.
   (C)   New accesses shall intersect the roadway at an angle between 80 and 90
degrees, and as close to 90 degrees as possible.
   (D)   Proper precautions shall be taken to provide and maintain adequate
drainage of county roads. Any interference to drainage to the county road
caused by applicant or his or her agents will be corrected by the county at the
expense of the applicant or permittee. Culverts under new accesses and located
within a county right-of-way shall have a minimum diameter of 12 inches and
shall be galvanized metal. Culverts shall be located and sized so as to form a
continuation of the existing roadside drainage system and shall extend beyond
the toe of any fill placed in association with the access. An engineering study
may be required to size the culvert at the discretion of the County Road and
Bridge Department. The cost of the study shall be at the expense of the
applicant.
   (E)   Reasonable effort shall be made to ensure all new approaches slope
downward from the roadway. On a new driveway approach, the slope of the
driveway from the shoulder of the county road shall be no greater than 4%
negative grade and no less than 2% negative grade for a minimum distance of 15
feet from the county road shoulder. On a new road approach, the slope of the
roadway from the county road shall be no greater than 4% negative and 2%
negative grade for a minimum distance of 50 feet from the existing edge of the
county road pavement. The approach shall be designed as to prevent surface
water runoff from reaching the county roadway.
   (F)   Wherever possible the sight distance for new approaches entering
arterial, collector, or local access roads shall be a minimum of 300 feet and a
minimum sight triangle of 40 feet. The permittee shall be required to perform
the necessary brush removal to meet and maintain sight distance requirements.
See §
151.039 for clarification. Sight distance may be based on the AASHTO (American
Association of Highway and Transportation Officials) “Policy on Geometric
Design of Highways and Streets.”
   (G)   During construction of approaches, such barricades, signs, and other
traffic control devices shall be erected and maintained in conformance with the
latest edition of the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” and in
accordance with the approved traffic control plan.
   (H)   (1)   The provisions of this manual shall not affect accesses or
approaches in existence on or before January 23, 2007, but any alteration of
such accesses shall conform fully with the provisions established herein.
      (2)   The provisions established herein shall likewise not necessarily
preclude establishing a new access or approach to any lot or parcel lawfully
created before January 23, 2007. Such new approaches will be examined by the
County Road and Bridge Department on a case-by-case basis, and variances from
the strict standards herein may be granted when doing so does not create
hazard.
   (I)   The applicant may challenge the decisions of the County Road and
Bridge Department by hiring a licensed professional engineer to complete a
sight stopping distance and safety study for the proposed location and make
recommendations to the County Road and Bridge Department, who may accept or
reject the recommendations for decreased sight distance requirements.
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 151.038 RESTORATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Existing drainage ditches, culverts, and the like shall be kept
clean at all times and temporary diversion of any drainage system will not be
permitted without the consent of the County Road and Bridge Department.
      (2)   Any drainage culvert, catch basin, manhole, or other drainage
structures disturbed by excavation shall be replaced with new material or
repaired to the satisfaction of the County Road and Bridge Department.
      (3)   Temporary erosion/sedimentation control measures shall be employed
to protect adjacent property and storm drain facilities in accordance with best
management practices.
   (B)   Any disturbance of the travel surface, shoulders, ditches drainage, or
traffic control devices shall be repaired and restored to its prior condition
or better. If surface or pavement settling should occur within one year of the
installation of the approach, repairs shall be made by the applicant as
directed by the County Road and Bridge Department and at no cost to the county.
If the applicant fails to make the necessary repairs, the county may initiate
the repair and bill the applicant. No new permits within county rights-of-way
will be issued to the applicant until such claim has been settled.
   (C)   Upon completion of construction of the approach, all rubbish and
debris shall be immediately removed and the roadway and the roadside shall be
left neat and presentable to the satisfaction of the county.
   (D)   All areas within the county right-of-way which have been disturbed or
denuded of vegetation shall be receded, in accordance to ISPWC standards, as
soon as possible after construction is completed to the satisfaction of the
County Road and Bridge Department.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.039 FIGURES.
   (A)     Figure 1.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78279f4ef451da11268a9d76c697e1a8a6b69f84/
IMAGES/0-0-0-781.png]
 
   (B)    Figure 2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78279f4ef451da11268a9d76c697e1a8a6b69f84/
IMAGES/0-0-0-783.png]
 
   (C)   Figure 3.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78279f4ef451da11268a9d76c697e1a8a6b69f84/
IMAGES/0-0-0-785.png]
 
   (D)    Figure 4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78279f4ef451da11268a9d76c697e1a8a6b69f84/
IMAGES/0-0-0-787.png]
 
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
**** STANDARDS FOR NEW ROAD CONSTRUCTION ****
§ 151.050 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   These standards are based upon the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO) “Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and
Streets,” current edition. Design criteria set forth by AASHTO shall serve as
guidelines for the design of all new roads proposed for dedication to the
county.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.051 ROADWAY CLASSIFICATION.
   All of the county’s roadways are functionally classified in accordance with
federal highway administration rules. These classifications determine, among
other things, construction design parameters and other required geometry
including minimum right-of-way widths. Road classification also plays a role in
maintenance priorities and eligibility for federal highway funding. A map
showing current classifications of county roads is on file at the County Road
and Bridge Department office. In most cases, new roads for dedication will be
classified as local access roads.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.052 RIGHTS-OF-WAY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All new roads proposed for dedication to the county shall have a
minimum right-of-way based on the classification of the roadway. Following are
the classifications along with their respective minimum right-of-way widths.
 
Roadway classification Right-of-way
Arterial               80 feet
Local access road*     60 feet
Major collector        60 feet
Minor collector        60 feet
Notes to Table:
*In most cases, new roads proposed for dedication will be classified as local
roads
 
   (B)   Additional right-of way width may be required to accommodate extreme
cut or fill sections. Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum radius of 70 feet of
dedicated right-of-way.
   (C)   All intersections of right-of-way lines at roadway intersections and
at cul-de-sac bulbs shall have a minimum radius of 20 feet. See §
151.065 for a “Typical Cul-de-Sac” detail.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.053 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   The following specific design criteria shall apply to all roads
proposed for dedication to the county. Also see §
151.065 for a “Typical Road Cross-Section” detail.
Design Parameter Arterial Collector Local Access
Design Parameter     Arterial           Collector          Local Access
Angles of            80–90 degrees    80–90 degrees    70–90 degrees
intersection
Design speed         35–55 mph        35–45 mph        25–35 mph
Horizontal curvature Minimum radius 830 Minimum radius 510 Minimum radius 250
*                    ft.                ft.                ft.
Super elevations     Max 0.06 ft. per   Max 0.06 ft. per   Max 0.06 ft. per
                     foot               foot               foot
Minimum runoff       150 ft.            120 ft.            110 ft.
length **
Vertical grades      Maximum 6%         Maximum 6%         Maximum 8%
Width of roadway     34 ft.             30 ft.             28 ft.
Width of travelway   28 ft.             26 ft.             24 ft.
Notes to Table:
* Radius measured to centerline of roadway
** From full super elevation to full crown section
 
   (B)   Minimum stopping sight distance (driver eye level at 3.5 feet above
road surface, object at six feet above road surface) shall be 250 feet. All
vertical curves shall be designed to meet this criteria.
   (C)   Radius of roadway edge at intersections shall be 30 feet.
   (D)   Downgrade and upgrade approaches to existing county road or highway
shall not exceed 2% for the last 25 feet of the approach, unless otherwise pre-
approved.
   (E)   Cut and fill slopes shall not exceed 2:1 (unless otherwise approved by
the county).
   (F)   Subgrade shall be established at 2–4% crown before placement of sub-
base or base materials.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.054 ROAD STRUCTURE SCHEDULE.
 
Class of     Asphalt   Base* Geo-textile Roadway Width Sub-Base   Traveled Way
Roadway      Surfacing       Required                  (Ballast)* Width
Arterial     2 in.     4 in. X           34 ft.        12 in.     28 ft.
Collector    2 in.     4 in. X           30 ft.        12 in.     26 ft.
Local access 2 in.     4 in. X           28 ft.        8 in.      24 ft.
Notes to Table:
* Compacted depth (add minimum 25% for compaction)
A geo-textile fabric (min. Amoco 2002 woven or equivalent) will be required in
all cases, unless waived by the Road and Bridge Superintendent
 
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.055 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Culverts under new roads shall be 18 inches in diameter or of such
size as is necessary to carry the discharge of a 50-year design storm,
whichever is greater. Culverts under roadways shall have a minimum of 12 inches
of cover and extend to the toe of any fill slopes.
   (B)   Culverts under approach roads or driveways shall have a minimum
diameter of 12 inches and a minimum length of 30 feet. Cover may be reduced to
six inches on residential driveways.
   (C)   All culverts installed in new roads or approaches shall be constructed
of corrugated, galvanized steel .064 thickness.
   (D)   Culverts or other drainage structures larger than 36 inches in
diameter or being placed under extreme fills may require engineered plans.
   (E)   All necessary drainage easements for accommodating drainage structures
shall be shown and recorded on the plans or the plat as a part of those plans
or plat. Drainage easements necessary for draining stormwater across private
property shall be shown on the plans or plat and recorded with the county.
   (F)   Bridge structures built for dedication to the county shall be designed
by a professional engineer registered in the state, in accordance with AASHTO’s
“LRFD Bridge Design Specifications,” latest edition.
   (G)   The design vehicle for bridge design shall be a minimum HS-20 truck.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.056 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   All required signs and markings shall be installed by the applicant
prior to acceptance of the roadway by the county unless approved otherwise by
the county.
   (B)   All permanent and construction signage shall be in conformance with
the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,” latest edition.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.057 GUARDRAIL OR BARRIER.
   The county reserves the right to determine the need for guardrail or other
barrier structure under each separate circumstance. The type of guardrail to be
installed shall be approved by the county based on specifications prepared, at
the applicant’s expense, by a state-certified engineer, and be installed by the
applicant prior to acceptance of the roadway by the county.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.058 CLEARING AND GRUBBING.
   Clearing and grubbing shall consist of the removal and disposal of all
organic and other deleterious material from the public right-of-way. All
material removed under clearing shall be disposed of out of the public right-
of-way limits.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.059 SUBGRADE.
   (A)   The subgrade shall consist of the natural materials remaining after
all topsoil and duff (organic material) have been removed and only good
construction material (mineral soil) is remaining.
   (B)   Unstable subgrade conditions shall be remedied by additional measures
as required by the Road and Bridge Superintendent and may include the
following:
      (1)   Chemical stabilization, overexcavation, and removal of unstable
material; and
      (2)   Placement of additional subbase material.
   (C)   The prepared subgrade shall be crowned 2–4% and compacted by
mechanical means.
   (D)   Observation of the subgrade by the county is necessary prior to the
placing of ballast or base materials. The county must have at least 24 hours’
notice prior to the need for observation. Notice shall be given so that
observation can be made during the county’s normal working hours and work week.
   (E)   All construction of the subgrade shall be controlled by slope stakes
or grade stakes placed by the project engineer or a licensed surveyor unless
this requirement is waived in advance by the county.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.060 SUB-BASE (BALLAST).
   (A)   Only approved crushed aggregate material which has a sand equivalent
of not less than 30 and which meets the following gradations may be used in the
ballast course.
 
Sieve Size Percent Passing
4 in.      100
3 in.      98–100
2 in.      75–100
1 in.      40–80
#4         25–60
#200       5–12
 
   (B)   The ballast material shall be placed in layers not to exceed six
inches each in thickness and shall be compacted by mechanical means to at least
95% of the AASHTO T-99 Proctor Density.
   (C)   (1)   Observation of the ballast by the county is necessary prior to
the placing of base materials. The county must have at least 24 hours’ notice
prior to the need for observation.
      (2)   Notice shall be given so that observation can be made during the
county’s normal working hours and work week.
   (D)   All culvert crossings shall be in place before the placement of
ballast.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.061 BASE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Only approved crushed aggregate material which has a sand equivalent
of not less than 30 and which meets the following gradations may be used in the
base course.
 
Sieve Size Percent Passing
1 in.      100
3/4 in.    90–100
#4         40–65
#8         30–50
#200       3–10
 
   (B)   The crushed aggregate material for the base course shall not show a
loss of more than 35% under the Los Angeles Abrasion Test or an equivalent
method.
   (C)   Base course materials shall be placed in one or more layers to develop
a compacted depth of four inches minimum. Material shall be placed in such a
way as to minimize segregation of the aggregate, and shall be compacted by
rolling to 95% of the AASHTO T-99 Proctor Density.
   (D)   No portion of the completed base course shall be more than four-
hundredths of a foot below the edge of a straight edge ten feet in length laid
parallel to and perpendicular to the centerline of the roadway.
   (E)   Observation of the base material (in place) by the county is necessary
prior to surfacing. The county must have at least 24 hours’ notice prior to the
need for observation. Notice shall be given so that observation can be made
during the county’s normal working hours and work week.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.062 SURFACING.
   Prior to acceptance into the County Road System, new roads shall be surfaced
with a minimum of two inches of hot mix asphalt pavement to a minimum width of
24 feet. The type of asphalt materials and equipment used will be as specified
or approved by the county. A pavement shall be designed and placed in
accordance with the 2004 or latest State Transportation Department’s “Standards
for Highway Construction.”
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.063 REQUIRED SUBMITTALS; SPECIFICATIONS FOR DRAWINGS.
   (A)   The project engineer shall prepare road and right-of-way drawings, and
each sheet of the drawings shall bear the seal of such engineer. A licensed
surveyor may prepare the right-of-way drawings, and each sheet of the drawings
shall bear the seal of such surveyor.
   (B)   Two copies of the design drawings shall be submitted to the County
Road and Bridge Department for review. All drawings shall include the following
when applicable:
      (1)   The first sheet of the plans shall include a project title,
vicinity map, and index of plan sheets;
      (2)   Road alignments with 50 feet stationing, reading from left to
right, and stationing at point of curve, tangent, and intersections, with
appropriate ties to existing road surveys and stationing, section corners,
quarter corners, and the horizontal control established by the engineer.
Stations shall increase from west to east and from south to north;
      (3)   Section, township, and range;
      (4)   Bearings on the road centerline, keyed to an associated plat map;
      (5)   Curve data including radius, delta, arc length, and semi-tangent
length, on all road centerlines and curb returns;
      (6)   Right-of-way lines, width of for proposed road, intersecting roads,
and existing road improvements with dimensions;
      (7)   All topographic features (based on real elevations) within right-
of-way limits or future right-of-way limits and sufficient area beyond to
resolve questions of setback, slope, drainage, access onto abutting property,
and road continuations;
      (8)   All existing utilities;
      (9)   All proposed water and sewer utilities that will be designed and
constructed;
      (10)   Identification of all roads and adjoining subdivisions;
      (11)   A traffic control signing plan;
      (12)   Existing and proposed drainage features, showing direction of
flow, size, and kind of each drainage channel, pipe, and structure and other
specified requirements in any county stormwater management specifications;
      (13)   A horizontal scale of one inch equals 50 feet and a vertical scale
of one inch equals ten feet. However, one inch equals 100 feet shall be
optional for development of lots one acre or larger. Details for clarification
may be shown on a convenient scale. A scale of one inch equals 20 feet may be
required for urban arterial streets where detail is sufficiently dense to cause
a “cluttered” drawing at a smaller scale;
      (14)   A North Arrow;
      (15)   As a minimum, one new control monument shall be set at each end of
a new road. Intermediate monuments may be required in complex situations;
      (16)   Project beginning and end designation with stations;
      (17)   A title block to include:
         (a)   The project name;
         (b)   County project number;
         (c)   Sheet number;
         (d)   Road names; and
         (e)   Road limits.
      (18)   All found and referenced survey monuments;
      (19)   Section and lot lines;
      (20)   Other data necessary for the specific project; and
      (21)   Project construction detouring and traffic control requirements.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.064 REQUIRED INSPECTION AND INFORMATION CHECKLIST.
   The “Required Inspection and Information Checklist” can be found on the next
page.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78279f4ef451da11268a9d76c697e1a8a6b69f84/
IMAGES/0-0-0-789.png]
 
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.065 FIGURES.
   (A)    Figure 1.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78279f4ef451da11268a9d76c697e1a8a6b69f84/
IMAGES/0-0-0-791.png]
 
   (B)     Figure 2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/78279f4ef451da11268a9d76c697e1a8a6b69f84/
IMAGES/0-0-0-793.png]
 
(Ord. 2020- 2, passed 9-29-2020)
**** MAILBOXES AND NEWSPAPER DELIVERY BOXES ****
§ 151.080 APPLICABILITY.
   All mailboxes and newspapers delivery boxes located within county rights-of-
way shall conform to the standards set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.081 STANDARDS.
   No mailbox or newspaper delivery box (hereafter referred to as mailbox) will
be allowed within the county right-of -way if it interferes with the traveling
public or the function, maintenance, or operation of the roadway system. The
location and construction of mailboxes shall conform to the rules and
regulation of the United States Postal Service and standards established in “A
Guide for Erecting Mailboxes on Highways,” published by the American
Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, 1994, or the latest
version.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.082 LOCATION.
   (A)   The roadside face of the box shall be offset the following distances:
      (1)   Paved road. The width of the shoulder plus one foot;
      (2)   Gravel road. One foot from the edge of the traveled portion on the
roadway; and
      (3)   Curbed street. One foot from the face of the curb.
   (B)   Where a mailbox is located at an intersection road, it shall be placed
a minimum of 100 feet beyond the center of the intersecting road in the
direction of the delivery route. This distance should be increased to 200 feet
when the average daily traffic on the intersecting road exceeds 400 vehicles
per day.
   (C)   Where a mailbox is installed in the vicinity of an existing guardrail,
whenever practical, it shall be placed behind the guardrail.
   (D)   Mailbox turnouts are encouraged on all new road construction and on
reconstruction.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.083 REMOVAL AND LIABILITY.
   The owner, upon notification by the Department shall remove any new mailbox
installation that is in violation of §§
151.080 through
151.082. The county shall not be liable for damage to any mailbox that does not
meet the requirements of this subchapter, nor is it liable for any damage due
to an installation being damaged by snow during snow removal operations.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
**** VARIANCES ****
§ 151.095 DECIDING BODY.
   The deciding body is the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.096 APPLICABILITY.
   A variance is a request for modification of any provisions of this chapter.
A variance may be granted only upon a showing of undue hardship because of
characteristics of the site and when not in conflict with the public interest
or safety. The hardship cannot be created by the actions of the landowner(s).
When considering the public interest, the Board shall review the standards set
in §
151.098(D).
(Ord. 2025-1, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 151.097 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Variance permits run with the land to which they attach, and continue in
effect for the life of the variance established.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.098 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Applicant. Applications for variance will be made on forms provided by
the County Road and Bridge Department, and may be processed singly or
simultaneously with the appropriate permit. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to provide sufficient detail, data, and documentation so as to
demonstrate to the Board of County Commissioners that the variance requested
meets the provisions established herein.
   (B)   Administrator. On receipt of a completed application for variance and
applicable fee, the Board of County Commissioners shall schedule a public
hearing within 30 days, allowing for public notification. At least one week
prior to the scheduled hearing, the head of the County Road and Bridge
Department will mail copies of the application and supporting documentation and
any written comment received to the Board of County Commissioners. This mailing
will also include the County Road and Bridge Department’s analysis that will,
at minimum:
      (1)   Describe specifics of the site, to include parcel number, legal
description, parcel size, zone district designation, surrounding zone district
designations, and surrounding land uses;
      (2)   Identify any overlay, hazardous or special areas, or sites affected
by the proposed variance;
      (3)   Include a listing of provisions of this chapter applicable to the
variance being sought;
      (4)   Describe the variance proposed; and
      (5)   Include the list of options available to the Board of County
Commissioners in rendering a decision.
   (C)   Board of County Commissioners. The Board of County Commissioners shall
hold a public hearing on any application for variance and, based on materials
in the application, the County Road and Bridge Department analysis and
testimony presented during the public hearing process, hold discussion to
render reasoned findings to support a decision. Hearing may be continued for
additional information.
   (D)   Considerations. Including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Whether the permit would be granted by the County Road and Bridge
Department, except for this variance;
      (2)   Traffic safety;
      (3)   Site distance;
      (4)   Engineering study;
      (5)   Topography and geography of the area of the variance;
      (6)   Existing distance between driveways;
      (7)   Road surfaces;
      (8)   Speed limits; and
      (9)   Additional traffic controls.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.099 APPLICABLE FEE FOR APPLICATION OF VARIANCES.
   Each application for a variance under this subchapter shall be accompanied
with an application fee. The application fee shall be $90 plus the cost of
publication for the notice of hearing, which shall be $130 for a total
application fee of $220.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.100 FINAL DECISION.
   The Board of County Commissioners’ decision shall be final.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by imprisonment in a
county jail not exceeding six months, or by a fine not exceeding $300, or by
both fine and imprisonment. The county may also initiate a civil proceeding
instead of, or in addition to, the criminal penalty.
      (2)   A separate violation shall be deemed to have occurred for each
construction, placement, installation, enlargement, or extension, or structure
subject to the parameters of this chapter.
      (3)   If an access onto a county road is created or altered in violation
of this chapter, such access will be posted with a warning notice of violation.
A letter will be mailed to the landowner at the time of posting giving the
landowner ten days from the date of posting to secure an approved application
or to correct the encroachment. Failure to do so authorizes the county to
remove the access five days after the notice is complete, to correct any harm
caused therefrom, to take such further action as authorized pursuant to Idaho
Code § 40-2319, and/or to proceed criminally against the landowner. The county
shall also be entitled to a lien against the real property for any expense it
incurs as a result of the failure of the landowner to comply with this manual.
   (C)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as
established by the rules of the Idaho Code.
(Res. 2009-12, passed 12-22-2008; Ord. 2020-2, passed 9-29-2020)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authority
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives and methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for special flood hazard areas
   
152.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Interpretation
   
152.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.25   Floodplain Ordinance Administrator; duties
   
152.26   Floodplain development application, permit, and certification
requirements
   
152.27   Corrective procedures
   
152.28   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
152.43   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways
   
152.44   Standards for floodways
   
152.45   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH)
Legal Status Provisions
   
152.60   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
152.61   Effect on outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
152.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The legislature of the state pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 46-1020, 46-1023, and
46-1024, authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain management ordinances
that identify floodplains and minimum floodplain development standards to
minimize flood hazards and protect human life, health, and property. Therefore,
the Board of Commissioners does hereby ordain the following chapter.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation that results in:
      (1)   Loss of life and property;
      (2)   Health and safety hazards;
      (3)   Disruption of commerce and governmental services;
      (4)   Extraordinary public expenditures for flood relief and protection;
and
      (5)   Impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses may be caused by development in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
   (C)   Local government units have the primary responsibility for planning,
adopting, and enforcing land use regulations to accomplish proper floodplain
management.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in
specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life, health, and property;
   (B)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in floodplains;
   (C)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas;
   (D)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (E)   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (F)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (G)   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES AND METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   (A)   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety, and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (B)   Restrict or prohibit development which are dangerous to health,
safety, and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood
heights, velocities, or erosion;
   (C)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
   (D)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (E)   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural
protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY AND AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure
on the same lot or parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is
incidental and subordinate to the principal structure.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is used
exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting, storage, raising, or
drying of agricultural commodities and livestock; specifically excludes any
structures used for human habitation.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH Zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination by the Federal Insurance
Administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a 1% or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other
source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CLEANING (IRRIGATION). Mowing, cutting, or burning of weeds, trees, and
other nuisance growth, including algae growth, application of pesticides as
permitted, removal of beaver dams, and removal of trash or other debris whether
floating, lodged, or otherwise obstructing the conveyance of water flow through
channels and works.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Facilities that are vital to flood response activities
or critical to the health and safety of the public before, during, and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
police station, fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle, and equipment
storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility, or wastewater treatment
plant.
   DATUM. The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points)
from which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of
points was the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The VERTICAL
DATUM currently adopted by the federal government as a basis for measuring
heights is the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit, such as: the construction of
buildings, structures, or accessory structures; additions or substantial
improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers, and
pools; the placement of mobile homes; or the deposition or extraction of
materials; the construction or elevation of dikes, berms, and levees.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. An important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to
document elevation information; and it may be used to support a request for a
letter of map amendment (LOMA) or letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-
F).
   ENCLOSURE. An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area
formed when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/RFPE is not considered an ENCLOSURE.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures, or development into the special flood hazard area
(SFHA), which may impede or alter the flow capacity of the SFHA.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
before the effective date of the original floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community, November 13, 1984.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES. See EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufacturing homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source;
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding as defined in division (1)(b) above and are akin to a river of liquid
and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in division (1)(b) above.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). The FBFM shows how the floodplain is
divided into the floodway and flood fringe where streams are studied in detail.
They also show general floodplain areas where floodplains have been studied by
approximate methods. (Old format pre-1986)
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION. See BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. See FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM
that has been made available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE
MAP (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations;
or an examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM)
or Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of
flooding in the area, and applicable insurance rate.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOODPRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. See definition of FLOODING.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard.
      (1)   In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus one foot of
freeboard.
      (2)   In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees, or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
FREEBOARD shall be one foot (T).
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A facility that cannot be used for its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such
as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo
or passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GENERAL IRRIGATION FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT (GIFD PERMIT). The intent
of the GIFD PERMIT is to collectively authorize low-to-no impact irrigation and
drainage development activities or uses in the floodplain which inherently do
not increase the BFE. GIFD PERMITS apply to all qualifying activities within
the spatial extent of an irrigation delivery or drainage system and within the
regulatory floodway or SFHA, over a predetermined period of time, not to exceed
five years. Issuance of a GIFD PERMIT requires coordination between the
irrigation entity and the Floodplain Administrator.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the United States Department of Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FIRMs that can be accomplished by letter.
They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision (LOMR), and
letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project
complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon
submission and approval of certified as-built documentation, a letter of map
revision (LOMR) may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building
permits and/or flood development permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR,
because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP map.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes
a property’s or structure’s location in relation to the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property or structure has been
inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high
ground above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). FEMA’s modification to an effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or
both, LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs), or the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or
Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM), and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the
modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the
affected portions of the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s modification
of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
The LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control, or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest point of the ground level next to
the structure. Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for LAG related to
building elevation information.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.30 and this
chapter.
   MAINTENANCE (IRRIGATION). The act of ongoing upkeep of existing structures
required to keep channels in a condition adequate to support the conveyance of
irrigation and drainage water (this does not include the complete replacement
or substantial replacement of an existing structure). MAINTENANCE is further
defined as the care or upkeep of channels, works, appurtenances, easements,
utility corridors, and property; to keep in an existing state, specified state
of repair, and efficiency; return to a former condition, elevation, place, and
position; to preserve from failure or decline; or repair or renovate so as to
return it to its original condition. MAINTENANCE does not include “dredging” as
defined herein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. This includes tiny homes
and park model manufactured homes. MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum (such as
North America Vertical Datum of 1988 - NAVD88) to which base flood elevations
(BFEs) shown on a community’s FIRM are referenced.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Administrator only if the
mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall
program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program created by
Congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound, community-
enforced building and zoning ordinances and to provide access to affordable,
federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the start
of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
      (2)   Any construction started after November 13, 1984, and before the
effective start date of this floodplain management chapter is subject to the
ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued, provided the start of
construction was within 180 days of permit issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A place where the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including at a minimum the installation of utilities, the construction
of streets, and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community November 13, 1984.
   OPERATION (IRRIGATION). The regular and reoccurring performance of typical
work by an irrigation or drainage entity including, but not limited to: the
delivery or drainage of water, measurement of water, and adjustment of
irrigation and drainage works and all related appurtenances.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before August 2, 1982, the effective date of the initial
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
This includes tiny homes and park model manufactured homes.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPAIR (IRRIGATION). The restoration to good or sound conditions of any part
of an existing structure, channel, channel bank, or service road for the
purpose of maintenance (this does not include the complete replacement or
substantial replacement of an existing structure). REPAIR does not include
“dredging” as defined herein.
   REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE. An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least
two paid flood losses of more than $1,000 each in any ten-year period since
1978.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. For
purposes of these regulations, the term SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous
in meaning with the phrase AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage
sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for
which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average,
equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to this chapter.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this
chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the finished construction elevation certificate,
other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. §
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to
be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988 (or other specified datum), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of unincorporated county. Nothing in this chapter is intended to
allow uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited by Chapter 154.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Insurance
Administrator in a scientific and engineering report titled “Flood Insurance
Study (FIS) for Boundary County, Idaho Unincorporated Areas,” dated February 2,
1982, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) and flood boundary and
floodway map (FBFM) dated August 2, 1982, and other supporting data, are
adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter. The FIS and the FIRM
are on file at the office of the County Clerk, 6452 Kootenai St., Bonners
Ferry, ID.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.25(B).
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter shall not in any way repeal, abrogate, impair, or remove the
necessity of compliance with any other laws, ordinances, regulations,
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions, and the like. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes more stringent or
greater restrictions shall control.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create
liability on the part of the county or by any officer or employee thereof for
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or an administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 152.25 FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Ordinance Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator,” is
hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator or designee shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied and all proposed
development is reasonably safe from flooding;
      (2)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas
to assure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been
received, including the Federal Water Pollution Control Act § 404, Amendments
of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. § 1334;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Water
Resources State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA);
      (4)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of §
152.44 are met;
      (6)   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of
all new and substantially improved structures, in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.26(C);
      (7)   Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which all new and substantially improved structures and utilities
have been floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of §
152.26(C);
      (8)   Review plans to verify public utilities are constructed in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.40(E) through (G);
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
and maintain certifications from a registered professional engineer or
architect in accordance with the provisions of §§
152.26(C) and
152.40(B);
      (10)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, and floodways (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this section;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data available from a federal, state, or other source, including data
developed pursuant to §
152.40(P), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of §
152.07, require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones AE on the
community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community;
      (13)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. § 552a;
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (15)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
      (16)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (17)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (18)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
152.27;
      (19)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (20)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.07, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change, issued
by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of the community’s mapping
needs;
      (21)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs);
      (22)   A community’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable, but not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, a community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator
(FIA) of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance
with this part. Such a submission is necessary so that upon confirmation of
those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and
floodplain management requirements will be based upon current data; and
      (23)   Upon occurrence, notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA)
in writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In
order that all FBFMs and FIRMs accurately represent the community’s boundaries,
include within such notification a copy of a map of the community suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT, AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   The flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area
as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) as determined in §
152.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
152.07,
152.08, or
152.42; and
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone A, AE, AH, or AO will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility equipment and machinery will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (current FEMA form)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures will be required prior to certificate of
occupancy/completion;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation,
or on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
152.40(H)(2) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
and AO.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state, and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
152.41(E) and (F) are met;
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and
      (10)   A map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, rip-
rap, docks, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials, and the like);
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
152.07;
      (3)   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and
all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of all
utility equipment and machinery;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway of any watercourse, as applicable;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, or AO;
      (8)   All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon the
start of construction of work within 180 days. A floodplain development permit
shall expire 180 days after issuance unless the permitted activity has
commenced as per the “start of construction” definition;
      (9)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage; and
      (10)   All materials below BFE/FPE must be flood-resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates. A final as-built finished construction
elevation certificate (current FEMA form) is required after construction is
completed and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest
floor and all attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy. In some instances, another certification may be required
to certify corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification
or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance
of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, design plans, with
supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance plan
are required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing certification
shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer
or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data, the operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance
plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant
prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Prior to request for a certificate of compliance/occupancy a
floodproofing certificate (current FEMA form) shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and approval.
      (3)   Engineered foundation certification. If a manufactured home
(includes tiny home or park model) is placed within Zone A, AE, AH, or AO and
the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.41(C)(2).
      (4)   Watercourse alteration. If a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated, the following shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit:
         (a)   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation;
         (b)   A professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream;
         (c)   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation; and
         (d)   A state stream channel alteration permit approval shall be
provided by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, are exempt from
the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements specified in divisions
(C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.41(E)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.41(F); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 200 square feet meeting
requirements of §
152.41(G).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for floodplain development permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, improvements, repairs of
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of this chapter is required.
   (E)   Other information. Any other information deemed necessary for review
of public safety and floodplain management requirements by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.27 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Board of County Commissioners at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Board of County Commissioners may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Board of County Commissioners shall find that
the building or development is in violation of this chapter, the Board shall
issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the
violation within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor
more than 180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that
there is imminent danger to life or other property, the Administrator may order
that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Order to be final. The order of the Board of County Commissioners
shall be final.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action or fails to comply with
an order of the governing body following an appeal, the owner shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.28 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the
“Board,” shall hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
152.05, provided provisions of §
152.28(H)(2), (H)(3), and (H)(4), have been satisfied, and such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (C)   In passing upon variances, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
152.05 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
above factors in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(11) above with their application
for a variance.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this chapter.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official specifying the difference
between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the elevation to which the structure
is to be built and that such construction below the BFE increases risks to life
and property, and that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure
below the BFE may result in increased premium rates for flood insurance. Such
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administrator and the
state upon request.
   (H)   (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if the
variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (I)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to at
least the flood protection elevation; and
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state, and
local laws.
   (J)   The county will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of the State
Department of Water Resources of its intention to grant a variance at least 30
calendar days prior to granting the variance.
   (K)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in Idaho Code § 67-6535.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
**** FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage
in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements, and available from the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   All new construction, substantial improvements, and development shall
be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor used solely for parking, access,
and storage shall:
      (1)   Be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, and AO, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or flood-resistant wood underpinning, regardless of
structural status, is considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as
outlined above.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, or stream
setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the flood
protection elevation in the floodway, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
   (K)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
152.28(I). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the flood
protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
152.26(C).
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (O)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act § 404, Amendments of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (P)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals greater than
50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include within such
proposals base flood elevation data.
   (Q)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (R)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
152.07 or
152.43, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
152.40, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction, substantial improvements,
and development of any residential structure (including manufactured homes,
tiny homes, and park models) shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
and utilities including ductwork, elevated no lower than the flood protection
elevation, as defined in §
152.05.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction, substantial
improvements, and development of any commercial, industrial, or other non-
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
residential construction. New construction, substantial improvements, and
development of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, and utilities including ductwork,
elevated no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.05. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, and AO may be floodproofed to
the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that all areas of
the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below
the flood protection elevation are watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy, For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be in
accordance with §
152.45(B). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§
152.26(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes (including tiny homes and
park models) shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured
home is no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.05.
      (2)   Manufactured homes (including tiny homes and park models) shall be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement, either by certified engineered foundation
system, or in accordance with the most current edition of the State Division of
Building Safety’s “Idaho Manufactured Home Installation Standard” in accordance
with Idaho Code § 44-2201(2). Additionally, when the elevation would be met by
an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above the grade at the site, the
chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When
the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in height, an engineering
certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
152.40(H).
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within floodprone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Additions/Improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to noncompliant post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other
than a standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to
comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to noncompliant post-FIRM structures
when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior
modifications to the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a five-
year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started, must comply
with the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the
five-year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. If the
structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered
substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
requirement does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions;
or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall be either:
      (1)   Temporary placement. Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days
and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently
attached additions); or
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles (including tiny homes
and park models) that do not meet the limitations of temporary placement shall
meet all the requirements for new construction, as set forth in §§
152.40 and
152.41(A) and (C).
   (F)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six months, renewable up to one year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure;
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved;
and
      (6)   Temporary structures in the floodway must provide a hydraulic and
hydrology analysis along with a no-rise certification.
   (G)   Accessory and agricultural structures (appurtenant structures).
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, elevation or floodproofing
certifications are required for all accessory structures, except those less
than 200 square feet in accordance with §
152.26(C), and the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking, or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.40(A); and
         (f)   All utility equipment and machinery, such as electrical, shall
be installed in accordance with the provisions of §
152.40(D).
      (2)   For accessory structures less than 200 square feet and a minimal
investment of $7,500 or less, and used solely for parking or storage, flood
openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces shall
be provided below flood protection elevation in conformance with the provisions
of §
152.40(H) in lieu of elevation.
      (3)   For accessory structures 200 square feet or larger used solely for
parking or storage and that are not elevated to the flood protection elevation,
a variance is required for floodproofing in lieu of elevation.
      (4)   Accessory structures not used solely for parking or storage must be
elevated per divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (H)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met.
      (1)   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the
effects of buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty).
      (2)   Elevated above-ground tanks, in Flood Hazard Areas, shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area.
      (3)   Not elevated above-ground tanks may be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the
effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne
debris.
      (4)   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets, and vents shall be:
         (a)   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with covers
designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents of the
tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
         (b)   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic
and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of
the base flood.
   (I)   Construction of crawlspace foundation.
      (1)   Must meet all requirements of at-grade crawlspace construction,
including:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Flood openings must be installed that allow for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters;
         (c)   The portions of the building below the BFE (plus freeboard) must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only
the foundation walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also
any joists, insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE; and
         (d)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet per second.
      (2)   For below-grade crawlspace construction, it must also meet the
following requirements.
         (a)   The interior grade of a crawlspace must not be more than two
feet below the exterior lowest adjacent grade (LAG).
         (b)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall,
must not exceed four feet at any point.
         (c)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         (d)   Buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces may have higher
flood insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace
construction, with the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at or above
the base flood elevation (BFE).
   (J)   Subdivision plats; flood zones.
      (1)   A note must be provided on the final plat documenting the current
flood zone in which the property or properties are located. The boundary line
must be drawn on the plat in situations where two or more flood zones intersect
over the property or properties being surveyed.
      (2)   FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, & 160xxxxxxE, and the like
         FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year
         Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, A Zone AO, Zone, AU, Zone D,
and the like
         Base Flood Elevation(s): AE______.0 ft., and the like
         Flood Zones are subject to change by FEMA & all land within a floodway
or floodplain is regulated by _________________ chapter/section of the City/
County Code
   (K)   Critical facilities. Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the special flood hazard
area (SFHA) (100-year floodplain). Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated three feet above BFE or to the height of the 500-year
flood, whichever is higher. Access to and from the critical facility should
also be protected to the height utilized above. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of
the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the
extent possible.
   (L)   Floodplain development permits related to irrigation activities and
development.
      (1)   Irrigation floodplain development permits. The Floodplain
Administrator must exercise his or her professional judgment when reviewing
activities to determine if an activity requires a permit. When in doubt, the
Floodplain Administrator should seek consultation from the IDWR Floodplain
Coordinator to determine permit necessity. Upon review of the proposed
activities and projects, the Floodplain Administrator will assess the project
for necessary permitting and shall advise the applicant or project sponsor of
his or her assessment in writing accordingly (email is acceptable). The
Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a copy of all proposed project
notifications and responses.
      (2)   Activities and projects that will require a floodplain development
permit.
         (a)   Dredging and grading of irrigation and drainage channels,
provided that fill from dredging or grading is not deposited on the banks of
channels or anywhere within the regulatory floodway or SFHA for longer than ten
days;
         (b)   Seasonal grading within natural stream channels to check or
direct water into irrigation facilities (i.e., earthen “push-up dams” and “wing
dams”);
         (c)   Deposition of fill within the SFHA for less than ten days. After
ten days, deposited fill must be removed from the SFHA, or graded and compacted
to existing grade within ± 0.2 feet. Deposition of fill includes deposition of
material resulting from grading or excavating irrigation or drainage channels.
Deposition of fill within the mapped floodway requires an individual permit;
         (d)   Construction of new underground utilities that do not
permanently alter the topography. Excess soil from new pipes larger than two
feet in diameter must be disposed of outside the regulatory floodway and SFHA;
         (e)   In-kind replacement of irrigation and drainage works or
components including, but not limited to, control gates or head gates,
measuring devices and their housing structures/stilling wells, culverts, pumps,
pipes, flumes, siphons, and similar works. GIFD permits cannot authorize the
in-kind replacement of dams or bridge structures;
         (f)   New driveways, trails, sidewalks, roads, and streets constructed
completely at-or-below existing grade;
         (g)   New underground utilities that do not permanently alter the
existing grade elevations by ± 0.5 feet; and/or
         (h)   Armoring, stabilizing, securing, or in-kind replacement of
existing infrastructure within the channel banks (such as bridge piers, sewer/
utility supports and stormwater/sewer drainage outfalls/headwalls) provided the
dimensions (bank slopes, channel location, channel elevation) of the channel
are not altered. This should not involve replacement with larger or additional
above ground infrastructure.
      (3)   Irrigation projects. Irrigation projects within the regulatory
floodway require a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis with no-rise certification
in addition to a floodplain development permit.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A (also known as
Unnumbered A Zones) and established in §
152.07, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
152.40, shall apply. The BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation
(FPE) shall be determined based on the following criteria:
   (A)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other sources,
all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
152.40 and
152.41;
   (B)   When floodway data is available from a federal, state, or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of §§
152.41 and
152.44;
   (C)   Require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed
developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, include within
such proposals base flood elevation data. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data
shall be adopted by reference in accordance with §
152.07 and utilized in implementing this chapter; and
   (D)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be elevated or
floodproofed (non-residential) to two feet above the Highest Adjacent Grade
(HAG) at the building site or to the flood protection elevation (FPE) whichever
is higher, as defined in §
152.05. All other applicable provisions of §
152.41 shall also apply.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.43 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
by FEMA or is available from another source but floodways are not identified
for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following
requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
152.40 and
152.41; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no encroachments, including
fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or other development shall be
permitted unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.44 STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAYS.
   Areas designated as floodways located within the special flood hazard areas
established in §
152.07. The floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of
floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and potential
projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
152.40 and
152.41, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A Conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months
of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes (including tiny homes and park models) may be
permitted provided the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.41(C); and
      (2)   The encroachment standards of division (A) above.
   (D)   Other development in regulated floodways.
      (1)   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of floodwaters,
such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, in regulated floodways shall meet
the limitations of this section;
      (2)   Retaining walls, bulkheads, sidewalks, and driveways that involve
the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of this
section;
      (3)   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low-water crossings, and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which encroach into
regulated floodways, shall meet the limitations of this section;
      (4)   Drilling water, oil, and/or gas wells including fuel storage tanks,
apparatus, and any equipment at the site that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of this section; and
      (5)   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding, and ship repair facilities that
encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of this section.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.45 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO, AH, AR/AO, OR AR/
AH).
   Areas designated as shallow flooding areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate. In addition to §§
152.40 and
152.41, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements.
   (A)   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feel, plus a
freeboard of one foot above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   (B)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in division (A) above so that the structure,
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall
be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with §§
152.26(C) and 152.41(B).
   (C)   Accessory structure (appurtenant structure) (sheds, detached garages,
and the like).
      (1)   Used solely for parking and storage:
         (a)   Shall have the lowest floor elevated at least as high as the
depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of one foot above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified; or
         (b)   Shall have flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization
of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation
in conformance with the provisions of §
152.40(H).
      (2)   Not used solely for parking and storage: Shall be elevated per §
152.41(A) and (B).
   (D)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
   (E)   Where hazardous velocities are noted on the FIRM, proper construction
techniques and methods shall be used to mitigate the effects of the velocities.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
**** LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS ****
§ 152.60 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This subchapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted November 13, 1984,
as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this subchapter shall not affect any action, suit,
or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance enacted on November 13, 1984, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.61 EFFECT ON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a Floodplain Development Permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter.
Provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding
permit within a period of 180 days subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
or altered unless in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 180 days, or both. Each
day the violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful actions
as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2024-7, passed 5-6-2024)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Applicability
   
153.02   Exemptions
Classes of Subdivisions
   
153.15   Definitions
   
153.16   Clustered subdivision
   
153.17   Commercial/Industrial subdivision
   
153.18   Lot line adjustment
   
153.19   Mixed use subdivision
   
153.20   Primitive subdivision
   
153.21   Rural subdivision
   
153.22   Urban subdivision
Platted Subdivisions
   
153.35   Applications for platted subdivision
   
153.36   Preliminary plat requirements
   
153.37   Lot line adjustment/short plat subdivision
   
153.38   Long plat subdivision
   
153.39   Final plat requirements
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning and additional penalty references, see
Chapter 154 and §
154.999
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.01 APPLICABILITY.
   Except where exempt at §
153.02, a development permit authorizing subdivision will be obtained prior to
the partition of any lot or parcel within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   Provisions of this section do not apply when all new parcels created are not
platted and equal or exceed 20 acres or one-thirty-second aliquot portion of a
section in size, nor will these provisions or minimum parcel size requirements
apply when:
   (A)   Parcels are created for lease solely for the purpose of agricultural
or silvicultural production and harvest;
   (B)   Parcels are created for mineral, oil, or gas leases;
   (C)   Parcels are created for the placement of government services, public
utilities, or rights-of-way;
   (D)   Parcels are divided for the sole purpose of burial or interment within
an approved cemetery;
   (E)   Parcels are established through testamentary provisions or the laws of
descent, provided the parcel meets or exceeds the density of the zone in which
the parcel resides;
   (F)   Divisions of land ordered by a court of competent authority in the
county, provided documentation is provided to the Administrator so as to
identify parcels so created; and
   (G)   Division of a single portion of a parcel for the sole purpose of
obtaining financing, provided the portion encumbered and the remainder remain
under single ownership and that both parcels so created consolidate again into
a single parcel upon satisfaction of the debt; or, in the event of foreclosure,
documentation from the lender be provided to the Administrator so as to
identify parcels so created.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** CLASSES OF SUBDIVISIONS ****
§ 153.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY WATER. Common regulated water source, e.g., association or city
water.
   SEWER. Common regulated sewer service or Panhandle Health District-approved
septic system can serve each lot.
   WILL-SERVE. A letter provided by appropriate utility (septic, water)
certifying their resource is available.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 153.16 CLUSTERED SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivisions approved by long plat, intended primarily for residential
development, that do not increase the density of the zone district in which
they lie, but in which lots to be developed are grouped together and a lot or
lots set aside and restricted from development regulated by the county.
Standards for development depend on the size lots proposed and are further
defined in succeeding subdivision types. In a clustered subdivision, the
following additional standards apply.
   (A)   Where both community water and sewer service are available, no lot
created will be less than one-fourth acre in size.
   (B)   Where either community water service or sewer service are available,
but not both, no lot created will be less than one acre in size.
   (C)   Where neither community water service or sewer service are available,
no lot created will be less than two acres in size.
   (D)   No buildable lot lies within an unnumbered A Flood Zone as identified
by the National Flood Insurance Program, or within an identified wetland.
   (E)   To qualify as a restricted lot, the lot or lots so set aside will be
used to accomplish one or a combination of the following, as depicted by plat
or CCRs:
      (1)   Greenbelt, open space or buffer zone;
      (2)   Critical area protection;
      (3)   Agricultural or silvicultural production and harvest; and/or
      (4)   Common outdoor recreation area, such as, but not limited to,
hiking, hunting, fishing, equestrian, skiing, or playgrounds.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.17 COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivisions approved by long plat intended primarily for commercial or
industrial development in accordance with zone district standards within the
Rural Community/Commercial, Commercial/Light Industrial, or Industrial Zone
Districts. In Commercial/Industrial subdivisions, the following standards
apply.
   (A)   Roads intended for adoption by the county shall be built and surfaced
to standards established by the current “County Road Standards Manual” to serve
all lots created. Where roads are to remain under private ownership and
maintenance, the subdivision created shall be served by defined access and
utility easements to an existing public road, to meet width and slope
requirements established by the current “County Road Standards Manual.” All
lots shall be served by roads surfaced to a standard sufficient to allow all-
weather access by emergency vehicles, actual surface notwithstanding. Where
four or fewer lots are proposed, road width and slope requirements may be
waived.
   (B)   Each lot created is or can be served by a water district association,
approved community water system, or by private well.
   (C)   A sewer or a Panhandle Health District-approved septic system can
serve each lot.
   (D)   Electrical service sufficient for commercial use can be brought to
each lot.
   (E)   Will-serve letters are required for each lot for water or sewer
service, where required by the state.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 153.18 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   As defined in §
154.007, processed by short plat.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.19 MIXED USE SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivisions approved by long plat and intended to provide a combination of
residential and commercial uses so as to provide goods, services, and economic
opportunity to complement residential development in those zones where
commercial or light industrial uses are conditionally allowed. Standards for
development depend on the size lots proposed and further standards are defined
in other subdivision types, and applications will demonstrate the concept,
types of use, and any limitations thereon.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.20 PRIMITIVE SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivision by short plat to create subdivisions primarily intended for
residential development, or where each lot meets or exceeds the density of the
zone district in which it lies, but are not less than five acres, and not more
than two lots, and which make limited or no provision for the construction or
installation of basic utilities, to include roads, water, septic, or electrical
service. Primitive subdivisions will accurately disclose the level of services
or lack thereof on the face of the plat, and each lot so created will have, at
minimum, defined access and easements meeting width requirements established by
the current “County Road Standards Manual” from an existing public road.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.21 RURAL SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivision by short plat to create lots primarily intended for residential
development where each lot meets or exceeds the density of the zone district in
which it lies. In a rural subdivision, the following development standards
apply.
   (A)   Roads intended for adoption by the county shall be built and surfaced
to standards established by the current “County Road Standards Manual” to serve
all lots created. Where roads are to remain under private ownership and
maintenance, the subdivision created shall be served by defined access and
utility easements to an existing public road, to meet width and slope
requirements established by the current “County Road Standards Manual.” All
lots shall be served by roads surfaced to a standard sufficient to allow all-
weather access by emergency vehicles, actual surface notwithstanding. Where
four or fewer lots are proposed, road width and slope requirements may be
waived.
   (B)   Each lot created is or can be served by a water district association,
approved community water system, or private well.
   (C)   A sewer or a Panhandle Health District-approved septic system can
serve each lot.
   (D)   Electrical service sufficient for residential use can be brought to
each lot.
   (E)   Will-serve letters are required for each lot for water and sewer
service, where required by the state.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 153.22 URBAN SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivision by long plat to create lots intended primarily for residential
development only allowed in accordance with “Zone District Specifications” § 15
within the Residential, Suburban, or Rural Community/Commercial Zone Districts.
In an urban subdivision, the following standards apply.
   (A)   Roads intended for adoption by the county shall be built and surfaced
to standards established by the current “County Road Standards Manual” to serve
all lots created. Where roads are to remain under private ownership and
maintenance, the subdivision created shall be served by defined access and
utility easements to an existing public road, to meet width and slope
requirements established by the current “County Road Standards Manual.” All
lots shall be served by roads surfaced to a standard sufficient to allow all-
weather access by emergency vehicles, actual surface notwithstanding. Where
four or fewer lots are proposed, road width and slope requirements may be
waived.
   (B)   Each lot created is or can be served by a water district association,
approved community water system, or by private well.
   (C)   A sewer or a Panhandle Health District-approved septic system can
serve each lot.
   (D)   Electrical service sufficient for residential use can be brought to
each lot.
   (E)   Will-serve letters are required for each lot for water or sewer
service, where required by the state.
(Ord. 2023-1, passed 11-28-2022)
**** PLATTED SUBDIVISIONS ****
§ 153.35 APPLICATIONS FOR PLATTED SUBDIVISION.
   It is the responsibility of the applicant, based on the specific provisions
of the zone district in which the subdivision is proposed, to provide
sufficient information and data so as to convince the deciding body that the
specific proposal is or can be made compatible with zone district requirements,
that sufficient public services are or can be made available to accommodate the
proposed subdivision and that subdivision standards are met. Applications for
platted subdivisions or lot line adjustments will be made on forms provided by
the Administrator and include all ownership interest in the property to be
divided, to include holders of liens, and bear the signatures of all parties
holding an ownership interest in the property being divided indicating approval
for platting. In addition, applications shall include:
   (A)   One copy of the full-sized preliminary plat and attachments, plus
sufficient copies rendered on paper not to exceed 11 inches by 17 inches in
size to allow for public hearing, as determined by the Administrator;
   (B)   Preliminary copy of proposed CCRs, if any; and
   (C)   Additional documentation, charts, maps, or drawings so as to convey
the scope and design standards of the proposed subdivision, as determined by
the applicant.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.36 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   Preliminary plats submitted for consideration of establishing a platted
subdivision shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to 200 feet,
and shall include a north point and graphic scale. The map will, at minimum:
   (A)   Provide the proposed name of the subdivision, so as not to duplicate
any name currently in use;
   (B)   Accurately describe and propose names, as approved by County GIS
Mapping, for all streets, alleys, and other routes of access, with widths,
courses, and tentative grades clearly shown;
   (C)   The names of any special purpose districts serving the area where the
subdivision is to be proposed or which are anticipated to serve the proposed
subdivision, including, but not limited to, school districts, water and sewer
districts, fire districts, and irrigation districts;
   (D)   The location of important infrastructure features within or adjacent
to the proposed subdivision, including, but not limited to, railroad lines,
existing roads and easements, existing sanitary sewers, wells, water lines,
utility easements, private easements, irrigation or drainage structures, storm
drains or stormwater control improvements, culverts, electrical lines,
telephone lines, and the like, and include the name of each company, utility
district, or individual providing easement or service;
   (E)   The location and nature of important topographical features within or
adjacent to the proposed subdivision, including, but not limited to, water
courses, riparian areas, wetlands, special or hazardous areas, and public
parks, traditional recreation areas, greenbelts, or open spaces;
   (F)   Define all lots proposed, including lots to be restricted, numbered
consecutively by lot and/or block, showing the exterior boundaries by distance
and bearing and including the actual size, in acreage, of each lot proposed;
   (G)   Include inset or separate sheet depicting the general characteristics
of the area in which the subdivision is proposed, to include adjacent or nearby
platted subdivisions; and
   (H)   Include inset or separate sheet depicting the general topography of
the ground proposed for platting.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.37 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT/SHORT PLAT SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Applicant. Applications for lot line adjustments or short plat
subdivisions will be made on forms provided by the Administrator and will
include preliminary plat as established in §
153.36.
   (B)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed application for lot line
adjustment or short plat, the Administrator will provide copies of the
application and preliminary plat to the County Assessor, Treasurer, County Road
and Bridge Department, GIS Mapping, and County Weed Department and schedule
public hearing on the next available agenda of the Board of County
Commissioners, allowing time for public notification. At least one week prior
to the date of the hearing, the Administrator will provide each member of the
Board of County Commissioners copies of the application, the preliminary plat,
and any written public comment received, along with a staff analysis, which
will at minimum provide:
      (1)   A summary of the development proposed, including the type
subdivision;
      (2)   The specifics of the site on which platting is proposed, including
parcel number(s), parcel size, zone district designation, surrounding zone
district designations, and surrounding land uses;
      (3)   Overlay zones, hazardous areas or special sites affected by the
application;
      (4)   A listing of other agency approvals that might be required prior to
the onset of development;
      (5)   Comprehensive plan considerations; and
      (6)   A listing of applicable provisions of this chapter, including
standards.
   (C)   Board of County Commissioners. At the conclusion of public hearing and
based on materials included in the application, the staff analysis and comment
received through public hearing, the Board of County Commissioners will hold
discussion to reach a reasoned decision and consider terms or conditions
sufficient to allow the Administrator to prepare written findings and decision.
   (D)   Considerations. When considering an application for lot line
adjustment or short plat, the Board of County Commissioners should determine,
at minimum:
      (1)   Whether the proposed plat is in accord with applicable provisions
of this chapter;
      (2)   Whether adequate public services are or can be made available;
      (3)   Whether the proposed subdivision is designed so as to reduce or
eliminate adverse impact on adjacent properties or land uses;
      (4)   Whether the proposed subdivision is situated so as to avoid
potentially hazardous or sensitive areas or sites; and
      (5)   Whether access is sufficient to accommodate increases that might
result from the subdivision proposed.
   (E)   Terms and conditions. In considering approval of a lot line adjustment
or short plat, the Board of County Commissioners may consider the imposition of
terms and conditions as a means of addressing concerns, to mitigate potential
adverse effects, to protect the public interest, or to ensure that the burden
of providing necessary infrastructure does not fall to the general public.
Terms and conditions may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Control the sequence and timing of development;
      (2)   Establish provisions for perpetual maintenance of public areas,
facilities, or utilities, to include roads;
      (3)   Require the installation of essential infrastructure, to include
requiring a guarantee of installation and surety pursuant to §§
154.060 through
154.066;
      (4)   Require landscaping, fencing, or other such measures to reduce
potential adverse impacts or to maintain aesthetics;
      (5)   Require specific security measures, such as traffic signs, traffic
and school bus turnouts, fencing, gating, or lighting to protect the public
safety; and
      (6)   Require specific endorsement on the face of the final plat
sufficient to inform potential buyers of levels or lack of services to be
provided, potential nuisances to expect, or other information deemed
appropriate to reasonably assure that buyers are aware of any limitations in
what they are buying.
   (F)   Decision. Based on the findings developed, the Board of County
Commissioners will develop written findings, and may, at its discretion, table
the final adoption of these findings and decision to a specific date and time
so as to allow review and approval. The Board of County Commissioners may:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the application and processing of final plat by
motion and majority vote, establishing applicable terms and conditions to be
required for signature on final plat. The approval process includes issuance of
a permit to subdivide property, based on the Board of County Commissioners’
approval and subject to any terms and conditions specified.
         (a)   Establish terms and conditions. Subsequent to the Board of
County Commissioners’ determination, specify any terms and conditions; and
         (b)   Establish timeline for completion (two years). This timeline
establishes the default date for recording the final plat.
            1.   Provide for one-time extension, one year. In the event the
final plat cannot be recorded within two years from issuance of this permit, a
one-year extension may be requested by the developer no more than 90 days prior
to the established default date for recording the final plat. This extension,
if granted, extends the original recording date by one full year.
            2.   Establish final plat filing date. Place this date in the terms
and conditions portion of the permit. If an extension is granted within the
last 90 days of the first final recording date, extend this final recording
date one full year from the original date and update the permit to reflect this
granted extension.
               a.   Completion bond. If the likelihood of completing
development on schedule is in doubt, the Administrator may require a completion
bond. The guarantee will establish a new final plat date, as agreed to by the
Board of County Commissioners. Further extensions may be granted by the Board
of County Commissioners if necessary.
               b.   Failure to final plat. If the final plat is not completed
(not fully recorded) by the final plat recording date, the application will be
canceled: a request to create this subdivision must be resubmitted.
      (2)   Table. Table the application and preparation of final plat pending
adoption of a guarantee of installation and surety, to allow revisions to the
preliminary plat or to CCRs, or to allow documentation of compliance with other
agency requirements; or
      (3)   Deny. Deny the application for cause.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.38 LONG PLAT SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Applicant. Applications for long plat subdivisions will be made on
forms provided by the Administrator and will include preliminary plat as
established in §
153.36.
   (B)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed application for long plat
subdivision, the Administrator will provide copies of the application and
preliminary plat to the County Assessor, Treasurer, County Road and Bridge
Department, GIS Mapping, and County Weed Department and schedule public hearing
on the next available agenda of the Planning and Zoning Commission, allowing
time for public notification. At least one week prior to the date of the
hearing, the Administrator will provide each member of the Planning and Zoning
Commission copies of the application, the preliminary plat and any written
public comment received, along with a staff analysis, which will at minimum
provide:
      (1)   A summary of the development proposed, including the type
subdivision;
      (2)   The specifics of the site on which platting is proposed, including
parcel number(s), parcel size, zone district designation, surrounding zone
district designations and surrounding land uses;
      (3)   Overlay zones, hazardous areas, or special sites affected by the
application;
      (4)   A listing of other agency approvals that might be required prior to
the onset of development;
      (5)   Comprehensive plan considerations; and
      (6)   A listing of applicable provisions of this chapter, including
standards.
   (C)   Planning and Zoning Commission. At the conclusion of a public hearing
and based on materials included in the application, the staff analysis and
comment received through the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission
will hold a discussion to reach a reasoned decision and consider terms or
conditions sufficient to allow the Administrator to prepare written findings
and recommendation.
      (1)   Considerations. When considering an application for long plat
subdivision, the Planning and Zoning Commission should determine, at minimum:
         (a)   Whether the proposed plat is in accord with applicable
provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Whether adequate public services are or can be made available;
         (c)   Whether the proposed subdivision is designed so as to reduce or
eliminate adverse impact on adjacent properties or land uses;
         (d)   Whether the proposed subdivision is situated so as to avoid
potentially hazardous or sensitive areas or sites; and
         (e)   Whether access is sufficient to accommodate increases that might
result from the subdivision proposed.
      (2)   Terms and conditions. In considering a recommendation of approval
of a long plat subdivision, the Planning and Zoning Commission may consider the
imposition of terms and conditions as a means of addressing concerns, to
mitigate potential adverse effects, to protect the public interest, or to
ensure that the burden of providing necessary infrastructure does not fall to
the general public. Terms and conditions may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Control the sequence and timing of development;
         (b)   Establish provisions for perpetual maintenance of public areas,
facilities, or utilities, to include roads;
         (c)   Require the installation of essential infrastructure, to include
requiring a guarantee of installation and surety pursuant to §§
154.060 through
154.066;
         (d)   Require landscaping, fencing, or other such measures to reduce
potential adverse impacts or to maintain aesthetics;
         (e)   Require specific security measures, such as traffic signs,
traffic and school bus turnouts, fencing, gating, or lighting to protect the
public safety; and
         (f)   Require specific endorsement on the face of the final plat
sufficient to inform potential buyers of levels or lack of services to be
provided, potential nuisances to expect, or other information deemed
appropriate to reasonably assure that buyers are aware of any limitations in
what they are buying.
      (3)   Recommendation. Based on the findings developed, the Planning and
Zoning Commission will develop written findings and recommendation. At its
discretion, the Planning and Zoning Commission may table release of findings
and recommendation until the next regular meeting to allow review and approval.
In rendering findings and decision, the Planning and Zoning Commission may:
         (a)   Recommend approval. Forward to the Board of County Commissioners
a recommendation of approval, to include recommended terms and conditions;
         (b)   Recommend disapproval. Recommend that the application for long
plat be denied for causes described; and
         (c)   Render considerations. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners written considerations when the Planning and Zoning Commission is
unable to reach consensus on a recommendation. These written considerations
will specify issues of contention and the rationale of members on each side of
the issues, to include any terms or conditions proposed. Final action will be
tabled until the next regular meeting to allow review and approval of written
considerations, with motion and majority vote to authorize the Chair to sign.
   (D)   Board of County Commissioners. Upon receipt of signed findings and
recommendations, the Administrator will schedule public hearing before the
Board of County Commissioners pursuant to §§
154.285 through
154.288. At the conclusion of the public hearing and based on materials
included in the application, staff analysis, the findings and recommendation of
the Planning and Zoning Commission and on new comment received through public
hearing, the Board of County Commissioners will hold discussion to reach a
reasoned findings and to establish terms or conditions as established at §
153.37(D) and (E). sufficient to allow the Administrator to prepare written
findings and decision.
   (E)   Decision. Based on the findings developed, the Board of County
Commissioners will develop written findings, and may table the final adoption
of these findings and decision to a specific date and time so as to allow
review and approval. The Board of County Commissioners may:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the application and processing of final plat by
motion and majority vote, establishing applicable terms and conditions to be
required for signature on final plat. The approval process includes issuance of
a permit to subdivide property, based on the Board of County Commissioners’
approval and subject to any terms and conditions specified.
         (a)   Establish terms and conditions. Subsequent to the Board of
County Commissioners’ determination, specify any terms and conditions; and
         (b)   Establish timeline for completion (two years). This timeline
establishes the default date for recording the final plat.
            1.   Provide for one-time extension, one year. In the event the
final plat cannot be recorded within two years from issuance of this permit, a
one-year extension may be requested by the developer no more than 90 days prior
to the established default date for recording the final plat. This extension,
if granted, extends the original recording date by one full year.
            2.   Establish final plat filing date. Place this date in the terms
and conditions portion of the permit. If an extension is granted within the
last 90 days of the first final recording date, extend this final recording
date one full year from the original date and update the permit to reflect this
granted extension.
               a.   Completion bond. If the likelihood of completing
development on schedule is in doubt, the Administrator may require a completion
bond. The guarantee will establish a new final plat date, as agreed to by the
Board of County Commissioners. Further extensions may be granted by the Board
of County Commissioners if necessary.
               b.   Failure to final plat. If the final plat is not completed
(not fully recorded) by the final plat recording date, the application will be
canceled. A request to create this subdivision must be resubmitted.
      (2)   Table. Table the application and preparation of final plat pending
adoption of a guarantee of installation and surety, to allow revisions to the
preliminary plat or to CCRs, or to allow documentation of compliance with other
agency requirements; or
      (3)   Deny. Deny the application for cause.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.39 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   Following approval of the preliminary plat, and prior to the sale or
conveyance of any lot or block, the applicant shall cause to be drawn a final
plat in conformance with the terms and conditions established and with Idaho
Code § 50-13, and the following:
   (A)   The name of the subdivision and the name of the larger tract or
subdivision of the Public Land Survey System of which it is part. The names of
the subdivider(s) and the seal and signature of the engineer and/or surveyor
who prepared the plat;
   (B)   The initial point of survey and descriptions and locations of
monuments in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code;
   (C)   The centerlines and widths of all existing or proposed streets, roads,
and alleys. The road name, as approved by County GIS Mapping, on any new roads
or shared driveways which will access three or more parcels. The length and
bearing of the lines of all lots, streets, roads, alleys, rights-of-way and
easements. It should include the profile of each street, road, or alley
intended for dedication or conveyance to the county, showing tentative grades
and cross-sections showing widths of roads, culverts, ditches, sidewalks, and
other features as applicable. All roads proposed for dedication or conveyance
shall be designed, constructed, and surfaced to standards established in the
current “County Road Standards Manual,” and approved by the County Road and
Bridge Department prior to acceptance;
   (D)   A place for the signature of the appropriate official of the Panhandle
Health District for certification of compliance of the plat per requirements of
Idaho Code §§ 50-1326 through 50-1334;
   (E)   A certificate containing the correct description of all lands
dedicated to the county, along with a place for signed acknowledgment by the
officer duly authorized to accept such dedications;
   (F)   A valid title policy which guarantees clear title on all property
intended for dedication or conveyance to the county;
   (G)   A place for the signature of the County Treasurer certifying that
there are no county property taxes due and unpaid on the lands contained within
the plat;
   (H)   If the plat is located within any special purpose district, the plat
shall contain a certificate bearing the signature of the appropriate official
of such district signifying the plat’s compliance with the regulations of the
district and/or the relevant provisions of Idaho Code;
   (I)   A place for the signature of the designated County Surveyor, with the
Surveyor’s fee to be paid by the applicant;
   (J)   A place for the signature of the Administrator, acknowledging the
final plat to be ready for the Commissioner’s final signature;
   (K)   A place for the signature of the Chair of the Board of County
Commissioners signifying the Board’s approval of the plat for recording and
filing;
   (L)   A place for the signature of the County Clerk of Court certifying
recording of the plat; and
   (M)   Prior to recording the final plat, the applicant shall:
      (1)   Request a timeline extension if unable to complete final plat prior
to the final recording date; and
         (a)   If an extension is applied for within the last 90 days of the
first final recording date, extend this final recording date one full year from
the original date and update the permit to reflect this granted extension.
         (b)   If the final plat is not completed (not fully recorded) by the
final plat recording date, the application will be canceled: a request to
create this subdivision must be resubmitted.
      (2)   Obtain requisite signatures from all but the Chair of the Board of
County Commissioners and the County Clerk of Court, and shall then submit two
signed copies of the final plat and CCRs to the Administrator, one Mylar and
one paper.
         (a)   Upon receipt of final plat, the Administrator will review the
plat to ensure conformance with terms and conditions established by the Board
of County Commissioners;
         (b)   Verify completion prior to the final recording date;
         (c)   Sign the plat to affirm compliance and then schedule time on the
next available agenda of the Board of County Commissioners for final plat
signature; and
         (d)   The Board of County Commissioners may then authorize the Chair
to sign the final plat and authorize the plat for signature and recording with
the County Clerk of Court.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
154.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to file simple subdivision. Failure to file simple
subdivision when so required will constitute an infraction pursuant to §
154.999(B)(1)(c).
      (2)   Failure to plat.
         (a)   When a subdivision requiring plat is created in violation of
this chapter, or when a lot is offered or conveyed prior to recording a final
plat, the property owner will be guilty of a misdemeanor for each lot or parcel
created pursuant to §
154.999(B)(1)(h). In addition, procedures for invoking penalties established at
Idaho Code § 50-1314 may be pursued.
         (b)   If the final plat is not completed (not fully recorded) by the
final plat recording date, as found on the permit, the application will be
canceled.
      (3)   False representation. The owner of real property who offers for
sale a parcel or parcels represented as being in a subdivision when no final
plat has been recorded will be guilty of a misdemeanor for each parcel so
offered pursuant to §
154.999(B). Additionally, agents of the owner involved in false representation
may be subject to disciplinary action as established at Idaho Code § 54-2060.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Authority
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Provisions apply equally
   
154.004   Affect on other laws
   
154.005   Uses will comply
   
154.006   Public nuisance
   
154.007   Definitions
   
154.008   Administrative fees for land use applications
Administration
   
154.020   Types of land use decisions
   
154.021   Continuation of offices
   
154.022   Office of planning and zoning
   
154.023   Position of Zoning Administrator; Duties
   
154.024   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
154.025   Powers and duties of the Planning and Zoning Commission
   
154.026   Powers and duties of the Board of County Commissioners
   
154.027   Fees
Enforcement
   
154.040   Injunctive action
   
154.041   Voluntary compliance encouraged
   
154.042   Reporting violations
   
154.043   Notice of complaint
   
154.044   Corrective action for types of complaints
   
154.045   Notice of violation
Guarantee of Installation Agreements and Surety
   
154.060   General
   
154.061   Guarantee may be imposed
   
154.062   Form of guarantee
   
154.063   Administration
   
154.064   Release of surety
   
154.065   Extension of guarantee of installation agreement
   
154.066   Forfeiture of surety
Administrative Development Permits
   
154.080   Recording
   
154.081   Concurrent processing of applications
   
154.082   Certificate of compliance
   
154.083   Residential placement permit
   
154.084   Commercial/industrial placement permit
Conditional Use Permits
   
154.095   Deciding body
   
154.096   Applicability
   
154.097   Duration of permit
   
154.098   Terminating a conditional use
   
154.099   Administration
   
154.100   Considerations
   
154.101   Terms and conditions
   
154.102   Decision
Special Event Permits
   
154.115   Deciding body
   
154.116   Definition
   
154.117   Exemptions
   
154.118   Purpose
   
154.119   Duration of permit
   
154.120   Special event review
   
154.121   Applicability
   
154.122   Administration
   
154.123   Considerations
   
154.124   Terms and conditions
   
154.125   Enforcement
   
154.126   Decision
Temporary Use Permits
   
154.140   Deciding body
   
154.141   Definition
   
154.142   Applicability
   
154.143   Duration of permit
   
154.144   Administration
   
154.145   Considerations
   
154.146   Terms and conditions
   
154.147   Findings and recommendation
   
154.148   Board of County Commissioners
Standards for Specific Uses
   
154.160   Standards for Commercial, Light Industrial, and Industrial use
   
154.161   Off-street parking
   
154.162   Signs
   
154.163   Towers and wireless communication facilities
   
154.164   Junkyards
   
154.165   Mobile home parks
Variances
   
154.180   Deciding body
   
154.181   Applicability
   
154.182   Duration of permit
   
154.183   Administration
Mediation and Appeals
   
154.195   Mediation
   
154.196   Appeals
Zone Districts, General
   
154.210   Adoption of the Zone District Map
   
154.211   Interpretation
Zone District Specifications
   
154.225   Use classes
   
154.226   Unrestricted uses
   
154.227   Light uses
   
154.228   Moderate uses
   
154.229   High-occupancy uses
   
154.230   Land-intensive uses
   
154.231   Prime forestry
   
154.232   Prime agriculture
   
154.233   Agriculture/forestry
   
154.234   Rural residential
   
154.235   Suburban
   
154.236   Residential
   
154.237   Rural community/commercial
   
154.238   Commercial/light industrial
   
154.239   Industrial
   
154.240   Airport overlay
   
154.241   Wetlands/riparian area overlay
Nonconformance
   
154.255   Applicability
   
154.256   Types of nonconformance
Amendments
   
154.270   Quasi-judicial zone map amendments
   
154.271   Legislative actions
Public Hearings and Notification
   
154.285   Purpose
   
154.286   Public notification
   
154.287   Public hearings
   
154.288   Order of proceedings
Parcel Divisions
   
154.300   Deciding body
   
154.301   Applicability
   
154.302   Exemptions
   
154.303   Classes of parcel division
   
154.304   Administration: parcel line adjustment
   
154.305   Administration: simple parcel division
   
154.306   Administration: Primitive parcel division
   
154.307   Final record of survey requirements
   
154.308   Terminating an a application for parcel division
 
   
154.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 154.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted and established pursuant to and in conformance with
the authority granted to the county by the state, particularly as applicable to
Idaho Const. Art. I, § 1; Idaho Code § 67-65; and Idaho Const. Art. XII, § 2,
as amended, and to preserve those rights established at Idaho Const. Art. I, §
1.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish fair, equitable and consistent
land use regulations and guidelines so as to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of the county and to set minimum and defined
standards for land use, development, and subdivision applicable to all equally,
pursuant to the general guidelines established in the County Comprehensive Plan
(9B18CPV1), adopted December 11, 2017.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.003 PROVISIONS APPLY EQUALLY.
   The provisions of this chapter apply equally to all owners of property
within the jurisdiction of the county with the exception of those lands
situated within the incorporated cities of Bonners Ferry and Moyie Springs, the
grounds of the county airport and the tribal trust lands of the Kootenai Tribe
of Idaho.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.004 AFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.
   No portion of this chapter will be construed to usurp requirements or
regulations of any other county departments nor any state or federal land use
regulation or requirement.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.005 USES WILL COMPLY.
   From the effective date of this codified ordinance, all land development and
use within the jurisdiction of the county will conform to the regulations and
standards established herein.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.006 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   No provision of this chapter will be construed to permit the establishment
or continuation of a public nuisance as defined in §
154.007 and further defined at Idaho Code § 18-5901.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. See STRUCTURE.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. See STRUCTURE.
   ADDRESSABLE. A structure requiring assignment of a physical address pursuant
to the County Addressing Ordinance.
   AGRICULTURE. The commercial cultivation of land, raising crops, and/or the
feeding, breeding, and raising of livestock for the production of food, feed,
and fiber. Agricultural accessory structures are those built specifically to
accommodate agriculture.
   ALIQUOT PARCEL. See PARCEL.
   CAUSE, DISAPPROVE FOR. Findings established for denial of an application.
These findings may be due to, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Failure to meet permit application requirements (this application);
and/or
      (2)   Prior failure to meet terms and conditions for any permit.
   CLASSES OF PARCEL DIVISION. See PARCEL.
   COMMERCIAL. A use, activity, structure, or group of structures on a single
parcel or lot intended primarily to provide a location to attract clients or
customers for the conduct of wholesale or retail trade or the provision of
services. This definition incorporates the manufacture and/or storage of
products or goods which is subordinate to the offering of services or goods.
COMMERCIAL USES can be characterized as, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Stores or shops;
      (2)   Day care or elderly care;
      (3)   Sporting events;
      (4)   Concerts or theatrical performances;
      (5)   Botanical gardens or tree farms; and
      (6)   Professional offices, restaurants, malls, and the like.
   CONDITIONS, COVENANTS, AND RESTRICTIONS (CCRs). Civilly binding standards
established by the seller of real property which attach to ownership following
sale of the property and which regulate uses allowed or set specific standards
of performance.
   CONSTRUCTION. See DEVELOPMENT.
   DEDICATION. The giving of land by a private person or entity to the
government.
   DEVELOPER. Any person or group of people seeking to establish a use
requiring a county permit as established by this chapter, or seeking to
subdivide land for any purpose other than agriculture or silviculture.
   DENSITY. The smallest parcel size allowable within a zone district.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-caused change to improved or unimproved real property
including, but not limited to, subdivision, construction or placement of
structures, dredging, filling, grading, paving, and excavation. DEVELOPMENT can
be further categorized as:
      (1)   CONSTRUCTION. The building, placement, or erection of a structure
on the surface of the land; or
      (2)   GROUND DISTURBANCE. The movement of one acre or more of the earth’s
surface, to include road construction, dredging, filling, excavation, or
grading, that is not to be accompanied by construction.
   DIVISION. See PARCEL.
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicular access from a public or private road to one primary
structure or to a single lot or parcel, intended solely for the occupants,
guests, purveyors, clients, or customers of that structure, lot, or parcel.
   DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   DWELLING. A single unit or structure providing a complete, independent
living facility for human habitation, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation. A recreation vehicle (RV),
as defined by Idaho Code, is excluded from the DWELLING definition.
   EASEMENT. The granting of a right for others to use portions of a privately
owned lot or parcel for a specific purpose, entered into by civil agreement.
Common EASEMENTS include granting the right to another to travel over private
property, known as an ACCESS EASEMENT, and easements granting placement of
water, electrical, sewer, phone, or other lines, known as UTILITY EASEMENTS.
The owner of property that is subject to easement is said to be “burdened” with
the easement, as they may not interfere with the use for which the easement was
granted.
   ELDERLY CARE/BOARDING HOUSE. The provision of full- or part-time residential
care, for compensation, for seven or more children or adults not related to the
property owner or tenant.
   EX PARTE COMMUNICATION. A violation of the right of due process by means of
direct or indirect communication on the substance of a pending case without the
knowledge, presence, or consent of all parties involved in the matter.
   FAMILY. A group of people related by blood, marriage, adoption,
guardianship, or other custodial relationship.
   FEEDLOT. A confined animal feeding operation as defined at Idaho Code § 67-
6529C.
   FINAL PLAT. See PLAT.
   FINDINGS. A written analysis weighing objective and subjective testimony and
data so as to analyze, explain, and justify a decision. Previously approved
findings establish precedent in the interpretation of this chapter, and may be
cited in succeeding applications or situations where similarities exist.
   GENERAL WELFARE. Concerned with, applicable to, or affecting the whole or
every member of a class or category. The purpose of land use regulation is to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare. For a zoning resolution or
decision to be lawful, it must secure a public purpose, be reasonable, not be
confiscatory, and be consistent.
   GROUND. See DEVELOPMENT.
   HOME BUSINESS. A use intended for fiscal gain and which requires for its
operation a state business name and tax identification number and which is
conducted entirely within the business owner or tenant’s primary residence or
in residential accessory structure(s), and which has no outside storage of
materials, supplies, or wares.
   INDUSTRIAL. A use, structure, or group of structures on a single parcel or
lot intended primarily for the manufacture, assembly, production, warehousing,
and/or storage of a product or component, or the production, refinement,
processing, and/or packaging of a natural resource or raw material. See also
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   INSTRUMENT OF CONVEYANCE. A legal instrument short of final plat, recorded
with the County Clerk, by which a legally described parcel of land within the
county is transferred from one party to another. Records of survey define
portions of land, but are not sufficient to convey ownership or create a
separately taxable lot or parcel, thus are not an INSTRUMENT OF CONVEYANCE.
   JUNKYARD. The use of any lot, parcel, or tract of land for the outdoor
storage or abandonment of refuse; or for the storage, impoundment, dismantling,
demolition, salvage, or abandonment of more than three derelict automobiles,
other vehicles, or parts thereof. A DERELICT VEHICLE is any vehicle that is
clearly inoperable and unable to move under its own power; or which is
partially or totally dismantled or damaged so as to render the vehicle unsafe
or illegal to operate on public roads or rights-of-way. This definition shall
not include implements of husbandry, farm tractors, or vehicles customarily
operated in a farming, ranching, or agricultural operation, nor impoundment
lots established by the County Sheriff or Prosecutor as necessary for law
enforcement.
      (1)   JUNKYARD, COMMERCIAL. A junkyard for the purpose of commercial gain
and for which a state tax identification number is required.
      (2)   JUNKYARD, NONCOMMERCIAL. A junkyard for purposes other than
commercial gain and for which no state tax identification number is required.
   LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. An industrial use conducted in such a manner that little
dust, noise, vibration, or other emission is apparent beyond the property lines
of the lot or parcel.
   LINE ADJUSTMENT. The adjustment of one or more lot lines.
      (1)   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. The adjustment of one or more lot lines
defined in a recorded final plat in such a manner that no new lots are created.
      (2)   PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENT. The adjustment of one or more lines
defining two or more parcels in such a way that no new parcels are created.
PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENTS may abate a nonconforming parcel, reduce the
nonconformity of a parcel of record, or balance the nonconformity between
adjoining parcels of record, but shall not increase a nonconformity.
   LONG PLAT. See PLAT.
   LOT. A portion of land defined and created by an approved final plat
recorded in the county. For the purpose of this chapter, all LOTS shall be
deemed to conform with the provisions of this chapter, subject to the
availability of services and setback requirements established within the zone
district.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A method of legally identifying and defining a
parcel for the purpose of conveyance, using physical features or directions and
distances from a single point of beginning and end. METES AND BOUNDS
DESCRIPTIONS may be subject to interpretation and altered by tradition or use.
   MINIMUM PARCEL SIZE. See PARCEL.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   MULTI-STRUCTURE (MULTIPLE) RESIDENCES. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   NOMINAL PARCEL. See PARCEL, NOMINAL.
   NONCONFORMING. See PARCEL OR LOT, NONCONFORMING.
   PARCEL. A portion of un-platted land legally described by aliquot
description, record of survey, or metes and bounds description and conveyed by
instrument of conveyance.
      (1)   ALIQUOT PARCEL. A parcel defined as a fractional part of a section.
      (2)   DIVISION. A parcel may be divided. See §§
154.300 through
154.308 for extensive definitions:
         (a)   See §
154.303, Classes of Parcel Division;
         (b)   See §
154.304, Parcel Line Adjustment;
         (c)   See §
154.305, Simple Parcel Division;
         (d)   See §
154.306, Primitive Parcel Division;
         (e)   See §
154.307, Final Record of Survey, Parcel Division;
         (f)   See §
154.308, Terminating an Application; and
         (g)   See §
154.999, Penalties.
      (3)   MINIMUM PARCEL SIZE. The minimum size of a lot or parcel
established within each zone district for the establishment of a use requiring
issuance of a permit by this chapter.
      (4)   NOMINAL PARCEL. An aliquot parcel equal to the minimum parcel size
within a zone district, regardless of the actual acreage of the parcel.
      (5)   NONCONFORMING PARCEL OR LOT. A lot or parcel that was lawfully
created under the land use regulations in effect at the time of its creation,
but that does not now conform with lot size minimums, designs, or other land
use regulation standards.
   PARCEL OF RECORD. A parcel created by instrument of conveyance prior to the
adoption of this chapter in a manner conforming to ordinance provisions in
effect at the time of the partition, but which do not meet the requirements
established herein. A PARCEL OF RECORD enjoys the privileges of a parcel
conforming to the provisions of the zone district in which it lies, subject to
the availability of services and setback requirements.
   PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENT. See LINE ADJUSTMENT, PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENT, and
PARCEL DIVISION, PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   PARCEL OF RECORD. See PARCEL.
   PERMANENT. Intended to remain in place.
   PLAT. A map, drawn to scale by a licensed surveyor, showing how a portion of
land is to be divided, in blocks and lots, and showing streets, alleys, and
easements, common areas, dedications, and other attributes pursuant to the
requirements of this chapter and Idaho Code § 50-13 established on the ground
by the placement of legal markers. PLATS may be used to create a subdivision,
amend an existing plat, or vacate all or part of an existing plat where no lots
have been sold and no construction of buildings or public improvements have
taken place.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A legal document meeting the criteria established by
this chapter and Idaho Code § 50-13 bearing the requisite signatures sufficient
for recording with the County Clerk and to convey lots. A FINAL PLAT will not
be altered or amended without the recording of an amending, consolidating, or
vacating plat.
      (2)   LONG PLAT. A subdivision platting process used for the
establishment of clustered subdivisions, commercial/industrial subdivisions,
mixed use subdivisions, and urban subdivisions, wherein an application is
presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission for public hearing and
recommendation, and a second public hearing is held before the Board of County
Commissioners for a final decision.
      (3)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A scale drawing or sketch prepared by a licensed
surveyor sufficient to convey the scope and intent of a proposed final plat.
      (4)   SHORT PLAT. A subdivision platting process used for lot line
adjustment or the establishment of primitive or rural subdivision wherein an
application is presented to the Board of County Commissioners for public
hearing and final decision.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. See PLAT.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE. See STRUCTURE.
   PRIMITIVE PARCEL DIVISION. See PARCEL.
   PRIVATE RECREATIONAL. See RECREATIONAL.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. When the use of land or structure(s) thereon prove
injurious to the health, indecent or offensive to the senses or causing
obstruction to the free use of adjoining properties so as to interfere with the
reasonable expectations of use by other property owners in the area; or any use
or structure which unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use of any
navigable lake, river, stream, canal, or basin, any public place or a legally
established easement.
   PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY. Uses or structures established on private property
designed for the provision of services or utilities necessary to the general
welfare, to include, but not limited to, fire and ambulance stations,
electrical, telephone, gas, or septic facilities or substations.
   RECORD OF SURVEY. A map, drawn to scale by a licensed surveyor using the
position of accurately described points on the ground to establish the
boundaries of a parcel, easements, or other definable features.
   RECREATIONAL. A use, structure, or group of structures on a single parcel or
lot intended primarily for seasonal or transient recreation as follows.
      (1)   PRIVATE RECREATIONAL. A recreational use developed for the private
enjoyment of an individual property owner and invited guests. PRIVATE
RECREATIONAL USE may include, but is not limited to, vacation, lake, river,
hunting or ski cabins, recreational vehicle pads, and improved campsites.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL COMMERCIAL. Recreational uses established to provide
general public access to privately owned land upon which specific outdoor
recreational activities or sports are to be offered commercially, to include,
but not limited to, hunting and fishing lodges or shops, motorized off-road
areas for snowmobiles, motorcycles, ATVs, or other recreational vehicles, ski
resorts or lodges, and hang gliding, parachuting, or other aerial sport
facilities.
      (3)   RECREATIONAL HOSPITALITY. Commercial uses established specifically
to afford the general public access, accommodations, and/or services by which
the public may enjoy recreational opportunities on private land. HOSPITALITY
USES may include, but are not limited to, RV parks, motels, hotels, or lodges,
bed and breakfast establishments, and inns.
   RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
      (1)   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. Not more than one attached or detached
single-family dwelling unit not larger than 1,100 square feet of living area
(exterior dimensions) and located on the same lot/parcel as an existing primary
residence or where a primary residence is to be built. Also, the living
quarters of a business owner or caretaker on a commercial or industrial parcel
or lot.
      (2)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE, RESIDENTIAL. A structure that is located on
the same lot or parcel and is accessory to and incidental to that of the
dwelling(s), such as a garage, tool shed, shop, or similar structures.
      (3)   DUPLEX. Two dwelling units attached to each other, with separate
exterior entrances for each unit and no internal access between the units. The
units may be separated by a shared garage but shall be physically attached as a
single structure.
      (4)   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE. Three or more dwelling units attached to
each other, with separate exterior entrances for each unit.
      (5)   MULTI-STRUCTURE (MULTIPLE) RESIDENCES. More than one primary
residential dwelling on a single lot or parcel, but not including an accessory
dwelling unit authorized by this code.
      (6)   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE or SINGLE-FAMILY PRIMARY RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE. A one-unit dwelling on a lot or parcel.
   RESTRICTED LOT OR PARCEL. A parcel or lot established for a specific purpose
clearly defined by instrument of conveyance or established by CCRs upon which
only uses not regulated by the county within that zone district may be
established. RESTRICTED LOTS OR PARCELS may be established through clustered
development or by transfer of development rights, or for use as privately owned
utility and access easements, public service facilities, parks or greenbelts,
or common areas set aside from development.
   SETBACK. Regardless of use, the distance prescribed by zone limiting
placement of any structure byway from any parcel line or public road easement/
rights-of-way.
   SHORT PLAT. See PLAT.
   SILVICULTURE. The process of commercially producing, growing, harvesting,
and marketing, through the cultivation and management of land, trees, and other
forest resources, to include, but not be limited to, timber and nursery stock.
SILVICULTURAL STRUCTURES are structures established
specifically to facilitate silviculture.
   SIMPLE PARCEL DIVISION. See PARCEL.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. See RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   STRUCTURE. Human-made building intended for permanent placement on property.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached structure, not intended for human
occupation, on a single parcel or lot, which complements and is subordinate to
the primary structure.
      (2)   PRIMARY STRUCTURE. An addressable structure establishing and
defining the highest use of a lot or parcel, such as agricultural, residential,
commercial, or industrial. There can be more than one primary structure on a
parcel or lot, and each may be supported by accessory structures, though each
must be established by issuance of the appropriate county permit.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of an existing parcel into two or more lots for
the purpose of sale or development, either immediate or future. See also
Chapter 153 for extensive definitions; see §§
154.300 through
154.308 for parcel divisions.
      (1)   APPLICABILITY. Procedures for partitioning of any lot or parcel.
      (2)   EXEMPTIONS. [Reserved]
      (3)   CLASSES OF SUBDIVISIONS.
         (a)   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The establishment of a platted subdivision,
primarily for residential or commercial development, in which lots to be
developed are grouped together and lot(s) on which development is restricted
are set aside for agriculture, silviculture, recreation, open space, or to
protect hazardous or sensitive areas.
         (b)   COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. [Reserved]
         (c)   MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT. [Reserved]
         (d)   PRIMITIVE DEVELOPMENT. [Reserved]
         (e)   RURAL DEVELOPMENT. [Reserved]
         (f)   URBAN DEVELOPMENT. [Reserved]
      (4)   APPLICATIONS FOR PLATTED SUBDIVISIONS. [Reserved]
      (5)   PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS. [Reserved]
      (6)   ADMINISTRATION. [Reserved]
      (7)   FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS. [Reserved]
      (8)   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION. [Reserved]
   ZONE. An area (district) defined by use, such definitions categorized by
Class. See §§
154.225 through
154.239 for zone district specifications for use and class distinction.
   ZONE MAP. The county map depicting use zones, said zones encompassing the
lands of multiple property owners and which comprise multiple definable
regions. The current map is available in the Planning and Zoning
Administrator’s office, and also available online at http://
www2.boundarycountyid.org/node/66/ - select * Comprehensive Plan Map.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2023-2, passed 11-28-2022; Ord. 2023-5,
passed 9-18-2023)
§ 154.008 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES FOR LAND USE APPLICATIONS.
   The following schedule of fees is hereby adopted to cover te costs of
administering the provisions of the County Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance
codified in
Chapters 153 and
154.
Appeal                                                          $180
Certificate of compliance                                       No fee
Commercial/Industrial placement permit                          $50
*Comprehensive plan amendment                                   $200
Conditional use permit                                          $90
Lot line adjustment, subdivision                                $35
*Ordinance amendment                                            $200
Parcel line adjustment                                          $35
Parcel split, primitive                                         $35
Parcel split, simple                                            $35
Quasi-judicial zone map amendment                               $200
Residential placement permit                                    $35
Request to examine or copy records; first 100 pages are free of Per Idaho Code
charge
Special event permit                                            $90
Subdivision, long plat                                          $180
Subdivision, short plat                                         $90
Subdivision, simple                                             $35
Temporary use permit                                            $180
Variance                                                        $90
Notes to Table:
* Fee not to be imposed if amendment application is initiated by the Planning
and Zoning Commission or the Board of County Commissioners. In addition to the
above fees, applicants shall also reimburse the county for first-class
mailings or display advertisements required for public notification pursuant
to §§
154.300 through
154.308.
 
(Res. 2017-19, passed 7-11-2017)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 154.020 TYPES OF LAND USE DECISIONS.
   In administering this chapter, all decisions made will fall under one of the
three following classifications.
   (A)   Administrative. Decisions made under authority granted the
Administrator and decisions involved in the management of this chapter to
include establishing rules and methods for the keeping of records, processing
and documentation of applications, the establishment of rules of procedure for
the conduct of meetings, and other like actions or decisions which do not
address a specific application, request, or complaint.
   (B)   Legislative. Decisions involved in the establishment or amendment of
law. Legislative decisions will not address or affect a specific application,
but may be initiated as a result of or in response to any action or situation
where it is deemed that existing laws are not serving the public interest.
Legislative actions include review and adoption of amendments to the
comprehensive plan, amendments to the comprehensive land use map, amendment of
this chapter or replacement of this chapter following comprehensive plan
review, and administrative zone map amendments, which affect an area
encompassing the lands of multiple property owners or comprise a definable
region. Legislative actions will always be subject to at least two public
hearings; at least one by the Planning and Zoning Commission to forward a
recommendation, and at least one by the Board of County Commissioners to render
a final decision. Generally, neither conflict of interest nor ex parte
communication issues apply.
   (C)   Quasi-judicial. Decisions made in response to specific land use
applications (also to include some legislative zone map amendments) in which
facts are provided, public hearing(s) held, evidence weighed, and conclusions
are rendered pursuant to the laws established by this chapter. In all quasi-
judicial matters, conflict of interest and ex parte communication are
prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.021 CONTINUATION OF OFFICES.
   At the time of adoption of this chapter, all offices, employees, and
officers established by the current county ordinance will continue forward
without interruption or disruption, subject to the provisions established
herein.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.022 OFFICE OF PLANNING AND ZONING.
   The office of Planning and Zoning is continued, with its primary duty the
administration of this chapter. The office may be assigned additional duties
and tasks at the discretion of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.023 POSITION OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   Position of Zoning Administrator. The position of Zoning
Administrator, hereinafter “Administrator,” is continued, with the primary duty
to conduct and oversee the functions of the office.
   (B)   Primary duties of the Administrator.
      (1)   Office management. The Administrator is responsible for management
of the office pursuant to the County Job Description PZ-01, as amended.
      (2)   Receive and process applications. The Administrator will receive,
process, and document all applications for permits and processes established by
this chapter and perform all necessary steps to see them carried through to
completion. In receiving applications, the Administrator will serve the
interests of the county, interpreting requests, and advising the applicant on
all processes, procedures, and provisions herein that are pertinent to the use
or action proposed. The Administrator will assist each applicant to ensure that
applications are complete, but will not have authority to withhold processing
an application once submitted and fee paid except where decision authority is
granted the Administrator.
      (3)   Decision authority assigned. The Administrator has authority,
provided all applicable provisions of this chapter are met, to approve simple
subdivision, special event, and development permit applications for uses within
each zone district identified as “Uses Requiring Administrative Development
Permit.”
      (4)   Recommendation authority denied. The Administrator will not have
authority to recommend approval or disapproval of any application presented for
which decision authority is not assigned, but will analyze the facts of each
application so as to render an objective written staff analysis for the
consideration of the deciding body.
      (5)   Limited authority granted.
         (a)   The Administrator is granted limited authority to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter as defined in §§
154.040 through
154.045, to include the right to receive and document complaints, to notify
affected property owners of alleged or potential violations, to render opinion
as to whether or not a violation exists based solely on the facts of the
allegation(s) and the provisions of this chapter to attempt resolution and
abatement of violation short of legal action through the establishment of
agreement(s) to bring about compliance within a reasonable period of time, and
to forward to appropriate enforcement authority any complaint not so resolved.
         (b)   The Administrator is not granted police powers, those being
reserved to the Prosecutor and the Sheriff, but will in all cases assist and
advise those agencies when requested in the investigation and prosecution of
violations of this chapter.
      (6)   Ex officio Clerk of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (a)   The Administrator will serve as ex officio Clerk of the Planning
and Zoning Commission and keep and maintain meeting agendas, minutes, and
records on all matters coming before the Planning and Zoning Commission.
         (b)   The Administrator will represent the Planning and Zoning
Commission on all matters forwarded by that body to the Board of County
Commissioners unless such representation is assigned, by motion passed, to a
member of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.024 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Continuation. The Planning and Zoning Commission is continued to serve
as the deciding body where authority is granted and in an advisory capacity to
the Board of County Commissioners on other land use matters as established by
this chapter.
   (B)   Membership/compensation. The Planning and Zoning Commission will
consist of nine members, who will serve voluntarily and without compensation
except for reimbursement of expenses specifically authorized by the Board of
County Commissioners.
   (C)   Appointment/term of office/qualification of members. Members of the
Planning and Zoning Commission will be appointed by resolution of the Board of
County Commissioners and will meet the residency requirements established at
Idaho Code § 67-6504. The Board of County Commissioners may, at its discretion,
also include area of residence within the county as an additional criterion so
as to assure balanced representation. The appointing resolution will specify
the effective date of appointment as well as the expiration of the term of
appointment.
      (1)   Terms will be staggered so that no more than five terms expire
within any two-year period. The term of office for members of the Planning and
Zoning Commission will be four years.
      (2)   Where a new member is appointed to fill a vacancy created by an
expiring term, that member will be appointed to a full term. Where a new member
is appointed to fill a vacancy created by resignation, that member will be
appointed to complete the remainder of the term vacated.
      (3)   Prior to the completion of the fourth year of a member’s term (in
October of that year) a letter of intent to serve a subsequent (consecutive)
term will be submitted to the Administrator and/or Chair.
      (4)   No member shall serve more than two consecutive terms without
specific concurrence by a simple majority of the Planning and Zoning Commission
adopted by motion and added to the minutes.
      (5)   Upon review and presentation by interviewed applicants, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may either direct staff to seek additional
letters of interest and table the review or forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation as to who should fill any vacancy, made by
motion and majority vote, see division (C)(4) above. The Administrator will
forward the recommendation, along with all letters of interest submitted, to
the Board of County Commissioners and set a date on the Board of County
Commissioners’ agenda for initial review. The Board of County Commissioners
may:
         (a)   Make final decision based on the merits of the Planning and
Zoning Commission recommendation and the content of the letter of interest;
         (b)   Table a decision to allow for interviews with prospective
members; or
         (c)   Direct the Administrator to seek additional letters of interest
for consideration by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   Filling vacancies. In the event of a vacancy, either by completion of
term or by resignation, the Administrator will publish notice of vacancy in
available media so as to solicit letters of interest from those qualified and
wishing to serve, and will schedule review of those letters and schedule
applicants interview on the next available Planning and Zoning Commission
agenda. Upon review and presentation by interviewed applicants, the Planning
and Zoning Commission may either direct staff to seek additional letters of
interest and table the review or forward to the Board of County Commissioners a
recommendation as to who should fill the vacancy, made by motion and majority
vote. The Administrator will forward the recommendation, along with all letters
of interest submitted, to the Board of County Commissioners and set a date on
the agenda for initial review. The Board of County Commissioners may make final
decision based on the merits of the Planning and Zoning Commission
recommendation and the content of the letter of interest, table a decision to
allow for interviews with prospective members, or direct the Administrator to
seek additional letters of interest for consideration by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   (E)   Meetings. The Planning and Zoning Commission will hold regular
meetings once per month except when no agenda items are scheduled, and will
hold special meetings or workshops as needed to conduct the business of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, as approved by the chair. Pursuant to Idaho
Code § 67-6504, at least nine regular meetings will be held each calendar year.
The regular meeting date, time, and location will be set by motion and majority
vote of the Planning and Zoning Commission at the first regular meeting of the
calendar year.
   (F)   Meetings will be open/quorum/voting by proxy. All Planning and Zoning
Commission meetings will be conducted to conform to the requirements of the
State Open Meeting Law, Idaho Code §§ 74-201 through 74-208. In order to
conduct business or make motion, a quorum of half the assigned membership, not
considering fractions, plus one member. Vote by proxy of a member anticipating
absence at a meeting is prohibited, though the absent member may submit written
comment for consideration on any application or item on the agenda.
   (G)   Election of officers. At the first meeting of each calendar year, or
at the next scheduled meeting following vacancy of an office, the Planning and
Zoning Commission will elect, by nomination and majority vote, a Chair, who
will preside over and conduct meetings, having the vote solely to break a tie,
and a Co-Chair, who will preside over and conduct meetings in the absence of
the Chair. In the event both the Chair and the Co-Chair are absent at a meeting
and a quorum of members is present, a special election will be held prior to
the conduct of business to appoint an Acting Chair for that meeting.
   (H)   Removal of members. A member may be removed from the Planning and
Zoning Commission following three unannounced absences from regular meetings in
any consecutive 12-month period or by willful failure to reasonably apply the
provisions established by this chapter. The Planning and Zoning Commission may
recommend the removal of a member on the above grounds by motion and majority
vote. The Board of County Commissioners can remove a member based on the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission or by direct action.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.025 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Comprehensive plan. The Planning and Zoning Commission has the duty to
conduct the comprehensive planning process for the county in conformance with
the provisions of Idaho Code §§ 67-6507 and 67-6508, pursuant to the provisions
of §
154.271.
   (B)   Decision authority granted. The Planning and Zoning Commission will
interpret the provisions of this chapter specific to individual applications so
as to render reasoned written findings supporting a final decision on
applications for variance and conditional uses. At the discretion of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, final action on an application may be tabled
until the next regular meeting to allow review and adoption of the written
findings and decision. No decision by the Planning and Zoning Commission will
be considered final until signed by the Chair.
   (C)   Recommendation authority granted. The Planning and Zoning Commission
will interpret the provisions of this chapter specific to individual
applications so as to render written findings supporting a recommendation to
the Board of County Commissioners on applications for temporary use,
development agreements, long-plat subdivision and non-administrative zone map
amendment, and will likewise forward findings and recommendation to the Board
of County Commissioners on applications to amend the county comprehensive plan,
administrative zone map amendments, proposed city area of impact agreements,
and proposed amendments to this chapter. At the discretion of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, final action on a recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners may be tabled until the next regular meeting to allow review and
adoption of the written findings and recommendation. When deemed necessary by
the Planning and Zoning Commission, it may, by motion and majority vote,
initiate application for legislative actions, including administrative zone map
amendments and amendments to the comprehensive plan, the comprehensive plan
map, or the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.026 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Final local authority. The Board of County Commissioners is the final
local authority and arbiter for the interpretation and application of all
provisions established herein, and will decide all appeals to final decisions
of the Administrator and the Planning and Zoning Commission. Final decisions of
the Board of County Commissioners may only be contested through action in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Decision authority retained. The Board of County Commissioners will
interpret the provisions of this chapter specific to individual development
permit applications so as to render written findings and decisions on temporary
uses, development agreements, short and long plat subdivisions and non-
administrative zone map amendments, and will likewise render findings and
decisions on amendments to the county comprehensive plan, city area of impact
agreements, and amendments to this chapter. These decisions will consider the
facts of the application, testimony received during the public hearing process
and, where applicable, the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission
so as to render reasoned written findings in support of the decision. At the
discretion of the Board of County Commissioners, final action on a decision may
be tabled to allow review and adoption of the findings. When deemed necessary
by the Board of County Commissioners, it may, by motion and majority vote,
initiate applications for legislative actions, including city area of impact
agreements, administrative zone map amendments, and amendments to the
comprehensive plan, the comprehensive plan map, or the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.027 FEES.
   Fees for application processes established by this chapter will be set by
resolution by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 154.040 INJUNCTIVE ACTION.
   Except as limited by the violations and penalties established in §
154.999, the county may take whatever legal action deemed necessary and
appropriate to restrain, enjoin, or stop any violation of this chapter in
accordance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.041 VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE ENCOURAGED.
   It is the policy of the county to encourage and promote voluntary compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and to promote education and awareness
rather than the immediate imposition of legal enforcement action. Except where
there is a threat to the general welfare, as determined by the Board of County
Commissioners, the prosecutor or the Sheriff, the Administrator will attempt to
bring about voluntary compliance prior to initiating legal enforcement as
established below.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.042 REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   If any person has complaint or cause to believe that a violation of this
chapter has occurred or is about to occur, that person should notify the
Administrator, providing the nature of the complaint and information sufficient
to accurately identify the lot or parcel upon which the violation is alleged. A
citizen may also make complaint directly to the Sheriff or the prosecutor, and
nothing in this section will preclude their taking action as deemed appropriate
to the allegation, which may include referring the complaint to the
Administrator. If enforcement action is undertaken by the Sheriff or the
prosecutor, the following provisions of this section do not apply.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.043 NOTICE OF COMPLAINT.
   Upon receipt of a complaint or alleged violation, the Administrator will
interpret the provisions of this chapter as regarding the specifics of the
complaint to determine if probable cause exists to warrant further action, with
record maintained. If there is reasonable cause to believe that a violation may
exist or is being established, the Administrator will send the owner of record
of the parcel on which the violation is alleged a notice of complaint, by first
class mail, notifying them of the potential violation, potential penalties
which may be imposed, and corrective action which may be taken to bring about
compliance. The Administrator will request that the property owner contact the
office within ten business days to either defend against the allegation or to
make arrangements to abate the violation.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.044 CORRECTIVE ACTION FOR TYPES OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit or variance. Property owner makes
application for a permit or variance, and the Administrator shall take no
further action until the application process is completed.
   (B)   Failure to comply with standards for specific use or the conditions of
a permit. The property owner corrects the situation within 30 days or makes
arrangements for a reasonable time to bring the property into compliance.
   (C)   Illegal structure placement corrective actions.
      (1)   Move the structure.
      (2)   Property owner makes application for a permit or variance, and the
Administrator shall take no further action until the application process is
completed.
   (D)   Failure to plat. The property owner may plat with subdivision process
or consolidate divided parcels.
   (E)   False representation. There is no corrective action. If the property
owner or sales representative cannot dispute the complaint, then a notice of
violation will be sent, and the matter forwarded to the Sheriff.
   (F)   Establishing a prohibited use. The property owner ceases the use
within 30 days or makes arrangements for a reasonable time to bring the
property into compliance.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.045 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If the Administrator has probable cause to believe that a violation has been
committed, or in the event the property owner fails to respond to a notice of
complaint or admits to a violation and fails to take corrective action or abide
by arrangements to abate the offense, the Administrator will send the property
owner, by certified mail, with return receipt requested, a notice of violation,
which will contain in addition to the information required in a notice of
complaint the specific provisions of this chapter alleged to have been violated
and notice that failure to respond will, within ten business days of mailing,
result in the complaint being turned over to the Sheriff for further
enforcement action. If the Administrator has probable cause to believe that the
violation may be detrimental to the public welfare or constitute a public
nuisance, the Board of County Commissioners will be notified of the complaint
prior to the mailing of a notice of violation and the Board of County
Commissioners may direct that the Sheriff assume responsibility for
enforcement.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** GUARANTEE OF INSTALLATION AGREEMENTS AND SURETY ****
§ 154.060 GENERAL.
   In order to ensure the development of essential improvements made necessary
by private development required to maintain public welfare, health, and safety
and to secure the taxpayers of the county from unfair burden, a guarantee of
installation agreement and surety may be required of the applicant or developer
as a condition of approval for any application process established herein that
is subject to public hearing.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.061 GUARANTEE MAY BE IMPOSED.
   When the deciding body establishes terms or specific standards for necessary
improvements as a condition of approval to any development permit application
subject to public hearing, and determines that completion of those improvements
are essential to public welfare, safety, or health, a guarantee of installation
may also be required as a further condition of approval.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.062 FORM OF GUARANTEE.
   A guarantee of installation will consist of a detailed description, prepared
by the applicant or developer, of the improvements required, the minimum
standards to which they will be built, the cost of the improvements to be
performed, established by a qualified and independent authority, a timeline of
development, to include expected completion date, and surety in the form of a
cash deposit, cash bond, corporate surety bond, or irrevocable letter of credit
in favor of the county in an amount set by the Board of County Commissioners
but not less than 150% of the total cost estimated, or in such other form as
expressly approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.063 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners has sole authority to order, enter
into, and approve a guarantee of installation. If the Planning and Zoning
Commission is the deciding body of an application and deems that a guarantee of
installation is a necessary condition of approval, decision authority will be
deferred to the Board of County Commissioners and a recommendation, to include
the proposed terms of the guarantee of installation, will be forwarded. The
Board of County Commissioners will hold public hearing on the application and
may impose the requirement of a guarantee of installation as a condition of
approval, specifying the terms, specifications, conditions, duration, and
amount of the guarantee. In the event a guarantee of installation is required,
no final permit will be issued until the guarantee of installation agreement is
signed by both parties and surety conveyed to the county.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners will maintain all records and
documentation related to guarantees of installation and will carry out the
tasks necessary for administration of the guarantee.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.064 RELEASE OF SURETY.
   Upon certification of completion of improvements by the developer, as
provided for in the guarantee of installation agreement, the Board of County
Commissioners shall schedule time on its regular agenda to meet with the
applicant or developer to initiate the county’s release of surety. In
anticipation of release, the Board of County Commissioners may request on-site
inspection of improvements by competent authority to verify that improvements
made meet or exceed agreement standards. Based on information provided, the
Board of County Commissioners may, by motion and majority vote:
   (A)   Release surety;
   (B)   Table the request pending an on-site inspection of improvements by the
Board or its designated representative;
   (C)   Table the release of surety for a period not to exceed one year from
date of completion to ensure that improvements will not require immediate
repair at county expense; or
   (D)   Deny release of surety for cause and either grant the applicant an
extension of time during which to complete installation or assume surety and
complete installation as established at §
154.065.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.065 EXTENSION OF GUARANTEE OF INSTALLATION AGREEMENT.
   In the event a developer has made a good-faith effort to meet the terms of a
guarantee of installation agreement but, through reasons outside their control
is unable to complete the improvements within the time established, the
developer may, not later than 90 days before the guarantee of installation
agreement is due to expire, request an extension so as to avoid forfeiture of
surety. Such requests will be made in writing to the Board of County
Commissioners and shall state the reasons for the extension request, the level
of work accomplished to date, and a detailed description, including a new
timeline, of the work remaining. Commissioners may approve a request for
extension of a guarantee of installation agreement by simple majority vote.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.066 FORFEITURE OF SURETY.
   If improvements assured by surety have not been completed to standards and
specifications established in the guarantee of installation agreement at the
conclusion of the time established, the Board of County Commissioners may
initiate proceedings to forfeit the applicant’s surety, in whole or in part,
and assume installation, completion, or repair of improvements or to waive
installation if development has not progressed to the point that installation
is necessary.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS ****
§ 154.080 RECORDING.
   Development permit applications will be maintained as a permanent record
pursuant to Idaho Code, and will be made available for public view on request
by any interested party.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.081 CONCURRENT PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS.
   Whenever application is made for a proposed use requiring the issuance
multiple permits, the applications will, to the extent possible, be processed
concurrently, with single public notice process covering all application
procedures. When applications are processed concurrently, only the fee
established for the highest cost permit under consideration will be imposed.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.082 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   When a property owner requires documentation that a particular use,
unregulated by the county, is in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, that property owner may make application for a certificate of
compliance, describing the use being conducted. Upon ascertaining that the use
described meets the provisions established herein, the Administrator shall
issue, at no fee to the property owner, a certificate of compliance.
Certificates of compliance shall remain valid for two years following cessation
of the use described. Expansion of an unregulated use may require additional
permitting.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.083 RESIDENTIAL PLACEMENT PERMIT.
   Where established within a zone district as a use requiring administrative
permit, a residential placement permit is required prior to the onset of
construction of a primary residence or an accessory dwelling unit intended for
residential occupation.
   (A)   Administration. Upon receipt of a completed application for a
residential placement permit and applicable fee, the Administrator will provide
review copies to all affected county departments, to include at minimum the
Assessor and the County Road and Bridge Department, and examine the
documentation provided to ensure that it is sufficient to determine that all
structures proposed meet setback requirements within the zone district, that
driveway approach to any county road meet safety requirements, that minimum
parcel size standards are met and that structures proposed are in conformance
with all applicable overlay zone requirements.
   (B)   Decision. Not later than ten business days following receipt of
application, the Administrator may:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the application and issue a residential placement
permit, providing the applicant contact information for other state or federal
permits that may be required and forwarding a copy to the GIS Mapping
Department for assignment of a physical address;
      (2)   Table. Table issuance of the permit pending proof of compliance
with requirements of other county departments; and
      (3)   Deny. Deny the application for cause, advising the applicant in
writing of the reasons for denial and steps that may be available to gain
approval, including the right to appeal.
   (C)   Duration of permit. Following issuance, a residential placement permit
will belong to the applicant and will only be transferable to the extent that
development as depicted on the application has been completed on the date of
sale or transfer of the parcel or lot.
   (D)   Penalties for violation. Failure to obtain a residential placement
permit when required will constitute an infraction, pursuant to §
154.999(B)(1)(b).
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.084 COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL PLACEMENT PERMIT.
   Where established as a use requiring administrative permit, a commercial/
industrial placement permit is required prior to the onset of construction or
expansion of a primary structure to establish a commercial, light industrial,
or industrial use as defined in §
154.008; or for converting a residential or accessory structure into a primary
structure for commercial or industrial use.
   (A)   Administration. Upon receipt of a completed application for a
commercial/industrial placement permit and applicable fee, the Administrator
will provide review copies to all affected county departments, to include at
minimum the Assessor and the County Road and Bridge Department, and examine the
documentation provided to ensure that it is sufficient to determine that all
uses and structures proposed meet provisions established within the zone
district, to include setback requirements, that structures proposed are in
conformance with all applicable overlay zone requirements, and that all
applicable standards as established in §§
154.225 through
154.239 are met.
   (B)   Decision. Not later than ten business days following receipt of
application, the Administrator may:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the application and issue a commercial/industrial
placement permit, providing the applicant contact information for other state
or federal permits that may be required and forwarding a copy to the GIS
Mapping Department for assignment of a physical address;
      (2)   Table. Table issuance of the permit pending proof of compliance
with requirements of other county departments; or
      (3)   Deny. Deny the application for cause, advising the applicant in
writing of the reasons for denial and steps that may be available to gain
approval, including the right to appeal.
   (C)   Duration of permit.
      (1)   Following issuance, a commercial/industrial placement permit will
go with the land and remain valid for the life of the use and be transferable
on sale of property, to the limits established in the approved application.
      (2)   Expansion beyond the limits established in the approved application
will require the issuance of a new commercial/industrial placement permit or
conditional use permit, as applicable.
      (3)   When a use for which a commercial/industrial placement permit was
issued is discontinued for a period of two years, the permit will be considered
lapsed.
   (D)   Penalties for violation. Failure to obtain a commercial/industrial
placement permit when required will constitute a misdemeanor, pursuant to §
154.999(B)(1)(c).
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
154.999
**** CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS ****
§ 154.095 DECIDING BODY.
   The deciding body is the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.096 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Where a specific or general use is allowed for consideration as a
conditional use with a zone district, a conditional use permit shall be
approved and issued prior to the onset of development or establishment of that
use.
   (B)   A conditional use application will encompass all development proposed
on a single parcel or lot, and upon issuance, the application, as modified by
standards, terms, or conditions imposed by the conditional use permit, will
become the controlling plan for that parcel or lot, and will not be changed or
expanded without application for a new development permit.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.097 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Conditional use permits run with the land to which they attach, and continue
in effect for the life of the use established.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.098 TERMINATING A CONDITIONAL USE.
   An approved conditional use permit will be deemed to lapse if work to
establish the use has not begun within two years of the date of approval, or
when a use established by a conditional use permit is discontinued for a period
of two consecutive years. The owner of property subject to a conditional use
permit may request termination of a conditional use permit at any time by
notifying the Administrator in writing.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.099 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Applicant. It is the responsibility of the applicant, on forms
provided by the Administrator and based on the specific provisions of the zone
district in which the use is proposed, to provide, at the time application is
made, sufficient information (detail, data, and documentation) so as to
demonstrate to the Planning and Zoning Commission that the specific proposal
meets those provisions and that the use proposed can be carried out without
imposing undue adverse effects on established uses in the area. This request to
be accompanied by a will-serve letter, signed by the utility provider(s).
   (B)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed conditional use permit
application and applicable fee, the Administrator will schedule public hearing
on the next available agenda of the Planning and Zoning Commission pursuant to
§§
154.285 through
154.288. Following the deadline for receipt of written comment and at least one
week prior to the scheduled hearing, the Administrator will mail copies of the
application, to include documentation and written comment received, to each
member of the Planning and Zoning Commission for review. The mailing will also
include a staff analysis which will:
      (1)   Summarize the development and use proposed;
      (2)   Establish the specifics of the site on which the use is proposed,
to include parcel number, legal description, parcel size, zone district
designation, surrounding zone district designation, and surrounding land uses;
      (3)   Identify all overlay zones, hazardous areas, or special sites that
might be affected by the proposed use;
      (4)   Cite comprehensive plan considerations;
      (5)   Cite provisions of this chapter applicable to the specifics of the
proposal, to include standards applicable to the use proposed; and
      (6)   Cite precedents that might be applicable to the specifics of the
proposal.
   (C)   Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission
will hold public hearing on the proposed conditional use. Based on the
materials of the application, staff analysis, and testimony presented in
writing or during public hearing, members of the Planning and Zoning Commission
will hold discussion to consider a decision and, if applicable, terms and
conditions, giving due consideration to potential takings issues, so as to
develop reasoned findings.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.100 CONSIDERATIONS.
   When considering a conditional use application, the Planning and Zoning
Commission should determine, at minimum:
   (A)   Whether the application, site plan and additional documentation
provided by the applicant sufficiently demonstrate the full scope of the use
proposed;
   (B)   Whether the proposed use conforms to all applicable standards
established by this chapter;
   (C)   Whether there is sufficient land area to accommodate the use proposed,
and whether development is so timed and arranged so as to minimize adverse
effects on surrounding properties and uses;
   (D)   How the impacts of the use proposed compare with the impacts of
existing uses within the zone;
   (E)   Whether concerns raised by other departments, agencies, or by the
providers of public services, including, but not limited to, road and bridge,
water, electricity, fire protection, sewer or septic, can be adequately
addressed;
   (F)   The potential benefit to the community offered by the use proposed;
   (G)   Whether specific concerns aired through the public hearing process
have validity and whether those concerns can be adequately addressed;
   (H)   Whether the use proposed would constitute a public nuisance, impose
undue adverse impact to established surrounding land uses or infringe on the
property rights of surrounding property owners, and whether terms or conditions
could be imposed adequate to mitigate those effects; and
   (I)   Whether the use proposed would unfairly burden the county taxpayers
with costs not offset by the potential benefits of the proposed use.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.101 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   In considering approval of an application to establish a conditional use,
the Planning and Zoning Commission may consider the imposition of terms and
conditions as a means of eliminating or mitigating potential adverse effects or
to provide for public safety. Such terms and conditions may, but are not
limited to:
   (A)   Control the sequence and timing of development;
   (B)   Establish or limit hours or days of operation;
   (C)   Establish limits on the timing and/or duration of potentially
disruptive activities;
   (D)   Require the installation of public services or utilities as
recommended by providers necessary to accommodate the use proposed;
   (E)   Establish specific locations and/or standards for structures, parking
areas, access lanes, and the like, to reduce adverse impact on traffic or
traffic patterns;
   (F)   Establish standards for landscaping, fencing, lighting, or other
measures so as to maintain the aesthetics or character of the area in which the
use is proposed or to contain noise, dust, light, or other potential nuisances
from encroaching onto adjoining properties;
   (G)   Require specific security measures, such as fencing, secure storage
areas, fire prevention measures, and the like, that are appropriate to the use
and necessary for public safety; and/or
   (H)   Require proof of compliance with other county regulations.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.102 DECISION.
   Upon conclusion of public hearing and based on the findings developed, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may, by motion and majority vote:
   (A)   Approve. Approve the application, establishing terms and conditions,
and findings sufficient to enable staff to prepare written decision. At the
discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, final action may be tabled
until the next regular meeting to allow review and approval of the written
findings and decision. For tolling appeal, approval of a conditional use permit
will be effective on the date the Chair signs written findings and decision. On
receipt of a signed decision to approve, the Administrator will issue the
applicant a conditional use permit, to include terms conditions established;
   (B)   Disapprove. Disapprove the application for cause, establishing
findings sufficient to enable staff to prepare written decision. At the
discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, final action may be tabled
until the next regular meeting to allow review and approval of the written
findings and decision. For tolling appeal, disapproval of a conditional use
permit will be effective on the date the Chair signs written findings and
decision. On receipt of a signed decision to disapprove, the applicant will be
provided a copy of those findings and advised of rights to appeal; or
   (C)   Table. Table a final decision to the next regular meeting to allow the
applicant to obtain documentation of agency approvals or to provide additional
specific information when the Planning and Zoning Commission is likely to
approve the application but:
      (1)   The site plan and/or other documentation fail to provide a
sufficiently clear and definable description of the scope of the development or
use proposed;
      (2)   Portions of the application fail to conform to specific standards
established by this chapter; and
      (3)   Additional agency approvals are established as a condition of
approval requiring proof of compliance before additional development can
proceed.
   (D)   Defer decision authority. The Planning and Zoning Commission my defer
decision authority, forwarding to the Board of County Commissioners a written
recommendation or synopsis of issues when:
      (1)   It is decided by the Planning and Zoning Commission that a
guarantee of installation agreement pursuant to §§
154.060 through
154.066 is necessary as a condition of approval;
      (2)   When the Planning and Zoning Commission has cause to question
whether or not an application meets criteria for consideration within a zone
district;
      (3)   When the scope of the application or controversy generated is such
that members of the Planning and Zoning Commission are unable to reach
consensus sufficient to render a motion or when it is determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission that decision authority should rest with the
Board of County Commissioners; or
      (4)   When decision authority is deferred to the Board of County
Commissioners, the Administrator will schedule an additional public hearing
before that body pursuant to §§
154.285 through
154.288.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS ****
§ 154.115 DECIDING BODY.
   The deciding body is the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.116 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any commercial activity to take place within a defined area,
including, but not limited to, a performance, meeting, assembly, contest, or
competition lasting seven calendar days or less in duration. A SPECIAL EVENT is
a one-time occurrence.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.117 EXEMPTIONS.
   Special event permits will not be required for activities involving:
   (A)   All public facilities;
   (B)   Schools or churches (on school/church property);
   (C)   Family reunions, weddings, or funerals;
   (D)   Events in which all activities except parking take place within an
existing building or structure;
   (E)   Events associated with the conduct of business at a previously
permitted (and still permitted) commercial enterprise; and
   (F)   Events in response to public emergencies or disasters.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.118 PURPOSE.
   A special event permit is required so as to provide for the public safety
and the safety of attendees and to ensure that activities will be conducted so
as to place minimal adverse impact on surrounding properties.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.119 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Where a special event permit is granted, it will remain in effect for the
duration of that event as specified by application.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.120 SPECIAL EVENT REVIEW.
   If concerns arise regarding public safety issues, the Board of County
Commissioners may review, revise, or revoke a special event permit.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.121 APPLICABILITY.
   When a special event is proposed in any zone district, a special event
application shall be submitted at least 45 days prior to the start date of the
event. Upon approval, the special event permit, and any terms or conditions
established, will become the controlling plan for the conduct of the event for
its duration, and may not be changed or expanded without action by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.122 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Applicant. It is the responsibility of the applicant, on forms
provided by the Administrator, to provide at the time application is made
sufficient information, detail, data, and documentation so as to demonstrate to
the Planning and Zoning Commission that the proposed special event meets
applicable provisions of this subchapter and can be carried out without undue
adverse impact on surrounding properties or uses and without imposing unfair
burden on the taxpayers of the county. In order to allow time for processing,
the completed application shall be turned in to the Administrator at least 45
days prior to the event.
   (B)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed special event permit
application and applicable fee, the Administrator will provide copies of the
application to all affected county departments to include, at minimum,
adjoining property owners, ambulance service, associated fire district or
association, the Sheriff’s office, and the County Road and Bridge Department,
for review and comment, allowing not less than seven consecutive days during
which written comments and recommendations, if any, are to be returned.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.123 CONSIDERATIONS.
   When considering a special event application, the Zoning Administrator
should determine, at minimum:
   (A)   Whether the application, site plan, and additional documentation
provided by the applicant sufficiently demonstrate the full scope of the use
proposed;
   (B)   Whether the proposed use conforms to all applicable standards
established by this subchapter;
   (C)   Whether there is sufficient land area to accommodate the proposed use
and whether the event is so arranged and conducted so as to minimize adverse
effects on surrounding properties and uses;
   (D)   Whether concerns raised by other departments, agencies, or public
service providers, including but not limited to, law enforcement, road and
bridge, water, sewage disposal, electricity, fire protection and emergency
medical, can be adequately addressed and resolved;
   (E)   Whether the use proposed would constitute a public nuisance, impose
undue adverse impact to established surrounding land uses or infringe on the
property rights of surrounding property owners, and whether terms and
conditions could be imposed adequate to mitigate those effects;
   (F)   Whether the use proposed would unfairly burden county taxpayers with
costs not offset by the potential benefits of the proposed event; and
   (G)   The comments and recommendations submitted by affected county
departments.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.124 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   In considering approval of an application to establish a special event, the
Administrator may consider the imposition of terms and conditions as a means of
eliminating or mitigating potential adverse effects or to provide for public
safety, provided such terms and conditions address conditions specific to the
use proposed so as not to constitute a taking of property rights. Such terms
and conditions may, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Control the sequence and timing of development;
   (B)   Establish or limit hours of operation;
   (C)   Establish limits on the timing and/or duration of potentially
disruptive activities;
   (D)   Require the installation of public services or utilities as
recommended by providers;
   (E)   Establish specific locations and/or standards for structures, parking
areas, access lanes, and the like, to reduce adverse impact on traffic or
traffic patterns;
   (F)   Establish standards for landscaping, fencing, lighting, or other
measures so as to maintain the aesthetics or character of the area in which the
use is proposed or to contain noise, dust, light, or other potential nuisances
from encroaching onto adjoining properties;
   (G)   Require specific security measures, such as security staff, fencing,
secure storage areas, fire prevention measures, and the like, that are
appropriate to the use and necessary for public safety; and
   (H)   Require proof of compliance with other county regulations.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.125 ENFORCEMENT.
   In considering the terms and conditions imposed by this permit, it is the
responsibility of the Administrator to respond to formal complaints received
and, consistent with §
154.041, to attempt to bring about voluntary compliance. See also §
154.045.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.126 DECISION.
   Based on the findings developed, the Administrator may:
   (A)   Approve. Approve the application, issuing the applicant a special
event permit, to include terms conditions established for the approval of the
permit. The Administrator shall also provide the Board of County Commissioners
with a staff report and all accompanying documentation;
   (B)   Disapprove. Disapprove the application for cause, establishing
findings sufficient to support the decision. The applicant will be provided a
copy of those findings and advised of rights to appeal; or
   (C)   Defer decision authority. The Administrator may defer decision
authority, forwarding to the Board of County Commissioners a written
recommendation or synopsis of issues when:
      (1)   It is decided by the Administrator that a guarantee of installation
agreement pursuant to §§
154.060 through
154.066 is necessary as a condition of approval;
      (2)   When the scope of the application or controversy generated is such
that the Administrator determines that decision authority should rest with the
Board of County Commissioners; and
      (3)   When decision authority is deferred to the Board of County
Commissioners, the Administrator will schedule public hearing before that body,
pursuant to §§
154.285 through
154.288.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** TEMPORARY USE PERMITS ****
§ 154.140 DECIDING BODY.
   The deciding body is the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.141 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition applies unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TEMPORARY USE. A use of limited and specific duration which, due to its
intensity, would otherwise be prohibited or be considered to be objectionable
or cause undue impact within a zone district, but which can be anticipated and
planned for by the establishment, by the applicants of a specific termination
date or other binding limitations, conditions, and safeguards so as to mitigate
potential adverse long-term impacts.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.142 APPLICABILITY.
   When a temporary use is proposed in any zone district, a temporary use
permit shall be approved prior to the onset of development. Upon approval, the
temporary use permit, and any terms or conditions attached thereto, will become
the controlling plan for the conduct of the use for its duration, to include
site reclamation, and may not be changed or expanded without action by the
Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.143 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Where a temporary use permit is granted, it will remain in effect for the
duration of that use and terminate on the date the site is reclaimed or on the
end date specified in the permit, or when the binding limitations take effect,
whichever comes first.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.144 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Applicant. It is the responsibility of the applicant, on forms
provided by the Administrator, to provide at the time application is made
sufficient information, detail, data, and documentation so as to demonstrate to
the Planning and Zoning Commission that the proposed temporary use is
compatible with the zone district and surrounding land uses, that the use
proposed meets applicable specific standards established by this chapter and
that the use can be carried out without undue adverse impact on surrounding
properties or uses and without imposing unfair burden on the taxpayers of the
county. Applications for a temporary use require a timeline for the development
and conduct of the use as well as a reclamation plan to be completed upon
conclusion of the use. In order to allow time for processing, the completed
application should be turned in to the Administrator at least 130 days prior to
the onset of the use.
   (B)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed temporary use permit
application and applicable fee, the Administrator will schedule public hearing
on the next available agenda of the Planning and Zoning Commission pursuant to
§§
154.285 through
154.288. Following the deadline for receipt of written comment and at least one
week prior to the scheduled public hearing, the Administrator will mail copies
of the application, to include documentation and written comment received, to
each member of the Planning and Zoning Commission for review. The mailing will
also include a staff analysis which will:
      (1)   Summarize the scope and nature of the proposed special event;
      (2)   Establish the specifics of the site on which the use is proposed,
to include parcel number, legal description, parcel size, zone district
designation, surrounding zone district designations, and surrounding land uses;
      (3)   Identify all overlay zones, hazardous areas, or special sites that
might be effected by the proposed use;
      (4)   Cite comprehensive plan considerations;
      (5)   Cite provisions of this chapter applicable to the specifics of the
application, to include specific standards applicable to the use proposed; and
      (6)   Cite precedents that might be applicable to the specifics of the
proposal.
   (C)   Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission
will hold a public hearing on the proposed temporary use. Based on the
materials in the application, staff analysis, and testimony presented in
writing or during public hearing, members of the Planning and Zoning Commission
will hold discussion to consider the use proposed and, if applicable, terms and
conditions so as to develop reasoned findings and recommendation to the Board
of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.145 CONSIDERATIONS.
   When considering a temporary use application, the Planning and Zoning
Commission should determine, at minimum:
   (A)   Whether the application, site plan, and additional documentation
provided by the applicant sufficiently demonstrate the full scope of the use
proposed;
   (B)   Whether the proposed use conforms to all applicable standards
established by this chapter;
   (C)   Whether there is sufficient land area to accommodate the proposed use
and whether the use is so arranged and conducted so as to minimize adverse
effects on surrounding properties and uses;
   (D)   Whether concerns raised by other departments, agencies, or public
service providers, including but not limited to, road and bridge, water, sewage
disposal, electricity and fire protection, can be adequately addressed and
resolved;
   (E)   Whether specific concerns raised through the public hearing process
have validity and whether those concerns can be adequately addressed by
imposing conditions or restrictions;
   (F)   Whether the use proposed would constitute a public nuisance, impose
undue adverse impact to established surrounding land uses or infringe on the
property rights of surrounding property owners, and whether terms and
conditions would be adequate to eliminate or mitigate those effects; and
   (G)   Whether the use proposed would unfairly burden the county taxpayers
with costs not offset by the potential benefits of the proposed use.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.146 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   In considering approval of an application to establish a special event, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may consider the imposition of terms and
conditions as a means of eliminating or mitigating potential adverse effects or
to provide for public safety, provided such terms and conditions address
conditions specific to the use proposed so as not to constitute a taking of
property rights. Such terms and conditions may, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Control the sequence and timing of development;
   (B)   Establish or limit hours of operation;
   (C)   Establish limits on the timing and/or duration of potentially
disruptive activities;
   (D)   Require the installation of public services or utilities as
recommended by providers;
   (E)   Establish specific locations and/or standards for structures, parking
areas, access lanes, and the like, to reduce adverse impact on traffic or
traffic patterns;
   (F)   Establish standards for landscaping, fencing, lighting, or other
measures so as to maintain the aesthetics or character of the area in which the
use is proposed or to contain noise, dust, light, or other potential nuisances
from encroaching onto adjoining properties;
   (G)   Require specific security measures, such as security staff, fencing,
secure storage areas, fire prevention measures, and the like, that are
appropriate to the use and necessary for public safety; and
   (H)   Require proof of compliance with other county, state, or federal
regulations.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.147 FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION.
   Upon conclusion of public hearing and based on the findings developed, the
Planning and Zoning Commission may, by motion and majority vote:
   (A)   Recommend approval. Forward written recommendation to the Board of
County Commissioners to approve the application, establishing recommended terms
and conditions, and findings sufficient to enable staff to prepare written
decision. At the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission, final action
may be tabled until the next regular meeting to allow review and approval of
the written findings and decision;
   (B)   Recommend disapproval. Forward written recommendation to the Board of
County Commissioners to disapprove the application, establishing findings
sufficient to enable staff to prepare written decision. At the discretion of
the Planning and Zoning Commission, final action may be tabled until the next
regular meeting to allow review and approval of the written findings and
decision; or
   (C)   Render considerations. Forward to Commissioners written considerations
when the Planning and Zoning Commission is split and unable to reach consensus
on a recommendation. These written considerations will specify issues of
contention and the rationale of members on each side of the issue, to include
any terms or conditions proposed. Final action will be tabled until the next
regular meeting to allow review and approval of written considerations, with
motion and majority vote authorizing the Chair to sign.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.148 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   Upon receipt of findings and recommendation, the Administrator will schedule
public hearing before the Board of County Commissioners pursuant to §§
154.285 through
154.288. Based on the materials in the application, the findings of the
Planning and Zoning Commission and new testimony presented in writing or during
public hearing, members of the Board of County Commissioners will hold
discussion to consider a decision and, if applicable, terms and conditions so
as to develop reasoned findings so as to:
   (A)   Approve. Approve the application, setting a specific date on or
conditions upon which the permit shall expire terms and conditions and findings
sufficient to enable staff to prepare written decision. At the discretion of
the Board of County Commissioners, final action may be tabled to allow review
and approval of the written findings and decision. On receipt of a signed
decision to approve, the Administrator will issue the applicant a temporary use
permit, to include terms conditions established;
   (B)   Disapprove. Disapprove the application for cause, establishing
findings sufficient to enable staff to prepare written decision. At the
discretion of the Board of County Commissioners, final action may be tabled to
allow review and approval of the written findings and decision. On receipt of a
signed decision to disapprove, the applicant will be provided a copy of those
findings and advised of rights to appeal; and
   (C)   Table. Table a final decision to allow the applicant to obtain
documentation of agency approvals or to provide additional specific information
when the Board of County Commissioners is likely to approve the application
but:
      (1)   The site plan and/or other documentation fail to provide a clear
and definable description of the scope of the development or use proposed;
      (2)   Portions of the application fail to conform to specific standards
established by this chapter; and
      (3)   Additional agency approvals are established as a condition of
approval requiring proof of compliance before additional development can
proceed.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC USES ****
§ 154.160 STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL USE.
   The following provisions apply equally to all commercial, light industrial,
and industrial uses operating within the jurisdiction of the county.
   (A)   Hazardous materials. Any commercial or industrial activity involving
the use or storage of hazardous materials, including, but not limited to,
flammable, explosive, corrosive, poisonous, or radioactive materials will
provide for the safe storage and handling of these materials in compliance with
current state and federal regulations so as not to threaten public safety. Such
materials will be stored or kept for disposal in areas secure from public
trespass.
   (B)   Dust. Excessive dust from commercial or industrial activities, parking
areas, and access ways will be controlled by landscaping, paving, application
of dust suppression materials, or by installation of filters, as appropriate.
   (C)   Noise. Regularly occurring noise from commercial or industrial
activities will be muffled, contained or otherwise controlled to reduce volume
at the nearest property line similar to the sound of a residential lawnmower.
   (D)   Lighting. All permanently installed exterior lighting will be designed
and placed so as not to produce glare onto adjoining properties or roadways.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.161 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   In all zone districts, off-street parking areas will be depicted on
development permit applications, to include access ways, in accordance with the
minimum standards here established.
   (A)   Residential. A minimum of two parking spaces will be provided for each
single-family residential unit.
   (B)   Transient lodging facilities. One parking space will be provided for
each guest room or suite, plus additional parking sufficient to accommodate
staff, including shift change.
   (C)   Public assembly places.
      (1)   Community halls, restaurant, clubs, dances halls, and similar
public gathering places will provide at minimum one parking space per 100
square feet of interior space;
      (2)   Auditoriums, theaters, churches and like places of public assembly
will provide at minimum one parking space for each three seats or two parking
spaces for each 100 square feet of interior space, whichever is greater; and
      (3)   Public assembly places having a limited occupancy fire rating will
provide one parking place for each three persons allowed in occupancy.
   (D)   Commercial and industrial uses.
      (1)   Off-street public parking will be provided within 300 feet of the
primary structure for all commercial or industrial uses;
      (2)   Parking will include sufficient area to accommodate the highest
number of employees on shift at any one time, to include shift change;
      (3)   Banks, professional offices, retail business establishments, and
service businesses will provide at minimum one parking space for each 400
square feet of interior space; and
      (4)   Warehouse, manufacturing, and other industrial businesses will
provide at minimum one parking space per 1,000 square feet of interior floor
space.
   (E)   Size and placement of off-street parking spaces.
      (1)   Each off-street parking space will have an area of not less than
200 square feet, exclusive of drives and aisles, and a width of not less than
ten feet. Each parking space will have sufficient ingress and egress to a drive
or aisle of sufficient width to provide space for backing and turning;
      (2)   Parking spaces will be situated so that vehicles in the process of
parking do not project into any road, thoroughfare or public right-of-way;
      (3)   Designated handicap parking spaces will be provided pursuant to
Idaho Code;
      (4)   When the normal business hours of two or more adjacent commercial
or industrial establishments do not generally overlap, off-street parking may
be combined to equal or exceed the highest number of spaces required by any one
establishment;
      (5)   Parking areas will be designed to include drainage to prevent
surface water from flowing onto adjoining properties;
      (6)   All driveway approaches connecting to a county road or state
highway will be approved by the County Road and Bridge Department or the State
Department of Transportation, as appropriate; and
      (7)   The county does not require that parking areas be surfaced, only
proof of sufficient land area to accommodate the use.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.162 SIGNS.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this section apply to all
freestanding advertising signs placed within the jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   Political campaign signs placed in conformance with state law;
      (2)   Temporary on-premises signs for the purpose of identifying property
for sale;
      (3)   Temporary signage, not to exceed eight square feet in size, placed
for the purpose of announcing an event of limited duration, such as a yard
sale, wedding reception, reunion, or similar activity; and
      (4)   Advertising signs painted on or attached to a building or structure
so as not to increase the overall height or size of the structure.
   (C)   On-premises signs. On-premises signs are free standing signs erected
or placed on the same lot or parcel as the business or enterprise being
advertised. The following provisions apply:
      (1)   Not more than two freestanding on-premises signs related to any use
not regulated by the county or any use approved by issuance of an
administrative development permit in any zone district except Rural Community/
Commercial, Commercial/Light Industrial, or Industrial, provided the face of
the sign do not exceed 32 square feet in surface area or exceed 12 feet in
height above ground surface. Such signs shall not be placed in any right-of-way
or easement, and will not interfere with traffic or impede traffic line-of-
sight. Such signs may be two-sided and illuminated front and back, but will not
be moving, blinking or flashing and will not produce glare to traffic or on
adjoining properties;
      (2)   One freestanding on-premises sign not to exceed 600 square feet in
surface area or 20 feet in height above ground surface will be allowed as
depicted in an approved development permit application for commercial or
industrial enterprises located in the Rural Community/Commercial, Commercial/
Light Industrial, and Industrial zone districts. Such signs may be two-sided
and illuminated front and back, and may be moving, flashing or blinking
provided they do not produce glare to traffic;
      (3)   One freestanding on-premises sign not to exceed 300 square feet of
surface area or 18 feet in height above ground surface will be allowed in any
zone district as depicted in an approved development permit application for a
conditional use permit. Such signs may be two-sided and illuminated front and
back, and may be moving, flashing, or blinking provided they do not produce
glare to traffic or onto adjacent properties; and
      (4)   On-premises signs in excess of the restrictions established above
may be considered by variance in all zone districts on parcels or lots on which
a commercial or industrial use has been established.
   (D)   Off-premises signs. Off-premises signs are freestanding signs situated
on a different lot or parcel than the business being advertised. The following
provisions apply:
      (1)   Off-premises signs are prohibited in the Prime Forestry, Prime
Agriculture, Agriculture/Forestry, Suburban, Rural Residential, and Residential
zone districts;
      (2)   Off-premises signs advertising businesses not located within the
county are prohibited in all zone districts;
      (3)   Not more than one free standing off-premises sign may be considered
as a conditional use within those urban areas of the county zoned Rural
Community/Commercial, Commercial, or Industrial, provided a business or public
assembly facility has been established on the lot or parcel on which the off-
premises sign is proposed. Off-premises signs will not exceed 600 square feet
of surface area or 24 feet in height above ground surface. Such signs may be
two-sided and illuminated front and back, and may be moving, flashing, or
blinking provided they do not produce glare to traffic or onto adjacent
properties; and
      (4)   Off-premises signs in excess of the standards established in
division (D)(3) above, are prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.163 TOWERS AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TOWER. A structure taller than its diameter; which can stand alone or be
attached to a larger building, which can be used for wind power generation,
storage, or for the placement of wireless communications antennas.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. Any facility designed and used for
transmitting, receiving, or relaying an electronic signal, to include the site
area, towers, and antennas.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Reception antennas, dishes, and receivers used to provide a signal
to individual businesses or residences may be established as a use not
regulated by the county in all zone districts.
      (2)   Building-mounted transmission antennas or towers not exceeding 30
feet in height above ground surface may be established as a use requiring an
administrative development permit in all zone districts.
      (3)   Freestanding towers not exceeding 50 feet in height above ground
surface may be established as a use requiring an administrative development
permit in all zone districts.
      (4)   Communications towers, antennas, receivers, or transmitters
maintained by the County Translator Board or used for communication for the
provision of emergency services.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   The county may impose height limitations based on tower location
and topography. No tower will intrude into protected airspace within the
airport overlay.
      (2)   Approved towers and wireless communications facilities are exempt
from minimum parcel size standards within any zone district in which they are
established, provided the outside boundaries of the parcel or lot will be equal
to the actual height of the tower plus 25 feet.
      (3)   Only such lighting as required by the Federal Aviation
Administration is allowed, and such lighting requirements will be met in the
manner least obtrusive to those on the ground. Where allowed by the FAA, such
lighting will be shielded from ground view, and nighttime lighting will be
steady burning aviation red. Where flashing lighting is required, reduced
intensity lighting will be used for nighttime operations. Security lighting at
ground level will be allowed, provided the lighting is shielded or directed so
as to prevent glare to traffic or glare onto adjacent properties.
      (4)   Wireless communications facilities providing signal for cellular
service will be designed to allow co-location, and the addition of transmitters
or receivers on an approved tower will not be regulated by the county, provided
such additions do not increase the overall height of the tower.
      (5)   Towers or wireless communications facilities will not be used for
signage except as required for safety.
   (D)   Application. In addition to a site plan and other application
information required by the county for issuance of a development permit,
applicants seeking to establish a tower or wireless communications facility
shall provide:
      (1)   Photo or graphic simulations depicting the appearance of the
facility proposed; and
      (2)   A coverage map indicating those areas that will be served by a
proposed communications facility.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.164 JUNKYARDS.
   (A)   Noncommercial junkyards.
      (1)   Where a noncommercial junkyard exists at the time of adoption of
this chapter in those zone districts in which such use is prohibited, such use
shall be deemed a nonconforming use pursuant to the provisions of §§
154.225 through
154.239, but must meet or be brought to meet the general provisions established
below to allow continuance of the use.
      (2)   Noncommercial junkyards established or maintained contrary to the
provisions established herein constitute are hereby deemed a public nuisance
subject to the provisions of Idaho Code § 18-5901.
   (B)   Commercial junkyards.
      (1)   Where a commercial junkyard exists at the time of adoption of this
chapter such use shall be deemed a nonconforming use pursuant to the provisions
of §§
154.225 through
154.239, but must meet or be brought to meet the general provisions established
below to allow continuance of the use.
      (2)   Commercial junkyards established or maintained contrary to the
provisions established herein are hereby deemed a public nuisance, subject to
the provisions of Idaho Code § 18-5901.
   (C)   General.
      (1)   All junkyards will be screened, either by opaque fencing, natural
topography, or vegetation sufficient to block the use from view from any
adjacent property or public right-of-way and to prevent trespassing. When
fencing is used, such fencing will not exceed 12 feet in height. No scrap or
junk materials will be stacked, stored, or piled to a height exceeding the
height of the fence.
      (2)   No junkyard will be located or established within 300 feet of the
boundary of an identified wetland, from the normal high-water mark of any
surface water, or from an existing well head.
      (3)   No junkyard will be located or established within a FEMA-identified
“A” flood zone.
      (4)   No junkyard will be used as an unregulated dumping area for refuse
or as a place for the burning or disposal of trash.
      (5)   Prior to final approval of a development permit application to
establish a junkyard, County Weed Control will inspect the site and establish a
plan requiring final approval by the County Weed Control Superintendent before
said permit may be issued.
      (6)   Security lighting may be used within the junkyard, but will be
directed or shielded so as not to shine or produce glare onto adjoining
properties or public roads.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.165 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Mobile home parks are the use of a single parcel or lot for the placement of
multiple temporary or long-term mobile residential or recreational structures,
to include mobile homes, recreational vehicles and manufactured homes.
   (A)   Each stall or space will be designed so that a minimum of 20 feet
separates each unit, based on the largest size structure the space can
accommodate.
   (B)   Spaces and accessory structures will be arranged in such a manner as
to meet minimum setback requirements established within the zone district.
   (C)   Roads, rights-of-way, and approaches within a mobile home park will be
constructed to the standards applicable in an urban subdivision, and a minimum
of two interconnected points of ingress and egress to a maintained public road
will be provided.
   (D)   Connections will be provided at each space for public services, to
include at minimum water, sewage disposal, and electricity.
   (E)   Development permit application site plans for the establishment of a
mobile home park will include the following:
      (1)   Detailed drawings depicting the location and dimensions of each
space; parking areas, access ways, walkways, and utility corridors; common
areas and facilities; open space and other detail sufficient to provide a clear
picture of the proposed use, as well as landscaping, fencing, or other methods
to enhance the proposed park and/or to mitigate potential adverse impacts on
adjoining properties;
      (2)   A fire mitigation plan, approved by the authorized representative
of the fire district, department, or association serving the proposed mobile
home park;
      (3)   Covenants, conditions, and restrictions applicable to tenants
occupying the park; and
      (4)   No development permit application shall be required for the
placement of mobile, manufactured, or recreational vehicles in an approved
mobile home park.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** VARIANCES ****
§ 154.180 DECIDING BODY.
   The deciding body is the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.181 APPLICABILITY.
   A variance is a modification of the bulk and placement requirements of this
chapter as to:
   (A)   Setbacks related to front yard, side yard, and/or rear yard;
   (B)   Parking space(s);
   (C)   Structure height; and
   (D)   Other provisions herein affecting the size of a structure or the
placement of the structure on lots or parcels.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.182 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Variance permits run with the land to which they attach, and continue in
effect for the life of the variance established.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.183 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Applicant. Applications for variance will be made on forms provided by
the Administrator, and may be processed singly or simultaneously with the
appropriate development permit for the use proposed. It is the responsibility
of the applicant to provide sufficient detail, data, and documentation so as to
demonstrate to the Planning and Zoning Commission that the variance requested
meets the provisions established herein.
   (B)   Administrator. On receipt of a completed application for variance and
applicable fee, the Administrator will schedule public hearing on the next
available agenda of the Planning and Zoning Commission, allowing for public
notification. At least one week prior to the scheduled hearing, the
Administrator will mail copies of the application and supporting documentation
and any written comment received to members of the Planning and Zoning
Commission. This mailing will also include a staff analysis that will, at
minimum:
      (1)   Describe specifics of the site, to include parcel number, legal
description, parcel size, zone district designation, surrounding zone district
designations, and surrounding land uses;
      (2)   Identify any overlay, hazardous, or special areas or sites affected
by the proposed use;
      (3)   Include a listing of provisions of this chapter applicable to the
variance being sought;
      (4)   Describe the variance proposed; and
      (5)   Include the list of options available to the Planning and Zoning
Commission in rendering a decision.
   (C)   Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission
will hold public hearing on applications for variance and, based on materials
in the application, the staff analysis and testimony presented during the
public hearing process, hold discussion to render reasoned findings to support
a decision.
   (D)   Considerations. Including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Whether the parcel is unsuited for uses that would otherwise be
allowed in the zone district because of special circumstances of the property,
such as its dimensions, topography or features;
      (2)   Whether denial of the variance could infringe on the rights of the
property owner or could constitute a taking of private property rights (Refer
to Comprehensive Plan, §§ 1.6. and 1.10.);
      (3)   Whether the variance will infringe on the properly rights of
neighboring property owners (Refer to Comprehensive Plan § 13.5.);
      (4)   Whether the variance is the result of something caused by the
applicant;
      (5)   Whether the variance is the minimum accommodation needed to provide
the requested use;
      (6)   Whether granting the variance could confer special privilege to the
property owner;
      (7)   Whether the variance confers on the property conditions that have
been granted to other properties similarly situated;
      (8)   Whether the variance will alter the character of the zone district
(Refer to Comprehensive Plan § 1.9.); and
      (9)   Whether the variance is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter and the comprehensive plan (see §
154.003);
   (E)   Terms and conditions. In considering approval of an application to
establish a variance, the Planning and Zoning Commission may consider the
imposition of terms and conditions as a means of eliminating or mitigating
potential adverse effects or to provide for public safety. Such terms and
conditions may, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Establish time frame(s) for development/completion; and/or
      (2)   Change the value of the measurement for which the variance seeks
relief.
   (F)   Decision. Based on the findings developed, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the variance and direct staff to prepare written
findings and decision. At the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission,
final action may be tabled until the next regular meeting to allow review and
approval of the findings and decision. For tolling appeal, approval of the
variance will be effective on the date the Chair signs the findings and
decision;
      (2)   Deny. Deny the application for cause, directing staff to draft
written findings and decision, to include steps the applicant might take to
gain approval and rights of appeal. At the discretion of the Planning and
Zoning Commission, final action may be tabled until the next regular meeting to
allow review and approval of the findings and decision. For tolling appeal,
approval of the variance will be effective on the date the Chair signs the
findings and decision; or
      (3)   Simultaneous application. When considering a variance application
submitted simultaneously with another development permit application, the
variance will be decided and approved before consideration is given to other
applications.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** MEDIATION AND APPEALS ****
§ 154.195 MEDIATION.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide a method and procedure short of formal appeal or
judicial action to resolve issues and concerns specific to a land use
application between interested parties pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6510.
   (B)   Invoking mediation. During any phase of the processing of an
application for which public hearing is required by this chapter, but prior to
the rendering of a final decision, mediation may be invoked by the applicant or
an affected person by submitting written request to the Administrator.
   (C)   Effect of invoking mediation. Upon agreement to mediate, all
processing of the affected application will stop and any public hearings
scheduled will be canceled. Any time limitations affecting processing the
application will cease. The mediation process will not be part of the official
record regarding the application.
   (D)   Agreement to mediate. Where an applicant or a party affected by the
application invokes mediation and those parties agree, at least one meeting
between the affected parties will be held within 15 days to attempt resolution,
to forego mediation or to select and retain a professional mediator. Within 30
days of invoking mediation, the Administrator will be informed as to whether
resolution has been reached or if agreement is reached that mediation is to
continue. In the event the Administrator is not notified within 30 days, the
application will be deemed to have been withdrawn.
   (E)   Concluding mediation. At the conclusion of mediation or when either
the applicant or the affected party choose not to proceed further with
mediation efforts, the applicant will notify the Administrator that mediation
has been concluded, submit any amended documentation, and remit additional
public notification expenses as agreed by all parties. Application processing
will proceed as follows:
      (1)   If mediation was invoked prior to a decision or recommendation
having been rendered by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the application
will be re-scheduled for public hearing before the Planning and Zoning
Commission; and
      (2)   If mediation was invoked subsequent to a recommendation by the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the application will be scheduled for public
hearing before the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.196 APPEALS.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish consistent procedures by which those adversely
affected by decisions rendered as established by this chapter may be
adjudicated in an efficient, fair, and timely manner.
   (B)   Establishment of authority; establishment of standing to appeal.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners is the first body of authority in
considering and deciding an appeal of the provisions established herein, and
all methods of relief established by this chapter will be exhausted prior to
seeking redress in a court of law.
      (2)   Any person or group adversely affected by a decision required by
this chapter has the right to appeal.
   (C)   Notice of appeal to be filed. Any person aggrieved by a decision
rendered pursuant to this chapter will, within seven working days of the
decision being rendered, file notice of appeal with the Board of County
Commissioners. This notice will be in the form of a letter and contain, at
minimum, the following:
      (1)   The appellant’s name, address, and telephone number;
      (2)   The specifics of the decision in dispute, including the file number
and date decision was rendered;
      (3)   A summary of the reasons that the decision may be flawed or that
procedural errors have been committed; and
      (4)   The action expected of the county to resolve the appeal or satisfy
a grievance.
   (D)   Administration.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the Board of County
Commissioner Clerk will, within five working days, provide copies of the appeal
to each member of the Board of County Commissioners and to the Administrator
and schedule a review of the appeal on the next available agenda of the Board
of County Commissioners to determine if the appeal has merit and should
continue forward or be dismissed; and, if to proceed forward, whether the
matter is to be heard in open meeting or public hearing. If the reason for the
appeal is due to procedural errors, the Administrator will inform the Board of
County Commissioners steps available by which to remedy the errors and the
Board of County Commissioners may direct that such steps be carried out, thus
resolving the appeal.
      (2)   Following the appeal review, the Administrator will notify the
appellant by mail, first class postage, of the decision of the Board of County
Commissioners and, if the decision is to proceed, applicable fees to be
required. The appellant will have ten days from the date of mailing to remit
fee to the Administrator to continue with the appeal process. If the applicable
fee is not received, the appeal will be deemed void.
      (3)   Upon receipt of applicable fee, the Administrator will schedule the
matter on the next available agenda of the Board of County Commissioners and
provide the appellant, affected parties, and each member of the board all
documentation on file regarding the application and the decision rendered, and
a staff analysis addressing the specifics of the appeal. If the appeal is to be
considered in public hearing, public notice will be sent pursuant to §§
154.285 through
154.288.
      (4)   The appellant and those affected may request from the
Administrator, at his, her, or their own expense, copies or transcripts of the
audio record of any public hearing pertinent to the decision rendered,
submitting such request in writing, within five working days from the date
notice of hearing was mailed. Cost of audio record and transcription will be as
established by the County Clerk of Court.
   (E)   Appeal hearing. Appeal hearings will be conducted in accordance with
the procedures for quasi-judicial public hearings established at §§
154.285 through
154.288 with the appellant filling the role of applicant. Following an appeal
hearing, the Commission may, at its discretion, direct the affected parties to
enter into mediation and table proceedings on the appeal until such mitigation
is concluded.
   (F)   Decision. Upon conclusion of an appeal hearing, the Board shall,
within 30 days, render a written decision, providing a reasoned analysis of the
facts and findings used to reach the decision. The Board may, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Uphold the appeal, overturning the initial decision that prompted
the action;
      (2)   Deny the appeal, upholding the initial decision; and
      (3)   Modify the decision so as to mitigate the grievance.
   (G)   Judicial relief. Any person aggrieved by a decision rendered as a
result of an appeal hearing may seek judicial review pursuant to Rule 84, Idaho
Court Rules, or other relief as established by the court.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** ZONE DISTRICTS, GENERAL ****
§ 154.210 ADOPTION OF THE ZONE DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   Lands affected. All lands lying within the boundaries of the county
which lie outside the boundaries of incorporated cities, tribal trust lands of
the Kootenai Tribe of Idaho, and the county airport are hereby designated as
lying within a zone district as defined herein, with these zone districts
depicted on the County Zone District Map, hereby adopted by reference and
declared part of this chapter.
   (B)   Creation/Amendment of the zone district map. The zone district map
will be electronically generated and maintained by the County GIS Mapping
Department so as to accurately define natural features such as lakes, rivers,
and streams; section and quarter section lines; state and county roads;
boundaries of municipal, governmental, and tribal entities not subject to this
chapter as established in division (A) above; property boundaries and ownership
data as maintained by the Assessor’s office; topographical detail so as to
depict the rise and fall of land; zone district boundaries; overlays where
digital data is available; scale, legend, and other features as become
available which would benefit administration of this chapter. The digital map
will only be amended by the GIS Department.
   (C)   Use of digital map. Said digital zone district map will be made
accessible to the Administrator, and referred to as an official reference on
all applications coming before the office.
   (D)   Printed zone district map to be signed and maintained. For general
reference, a printed copy of the zone district map accurately depicting the
general zone district boundaries, lakes, rivers, and streams, section lines and
numbers, named or numbered state and county roads, scale and legend, and
bearing the signatures of the members of the Board of County Commissioners,
will be displayed in the planning and zoning office for public review during
normal business hours. Copies may also be offered for sale through the GIS
Mapping office at a price established by the Board of County Commissioners. A
digital version, not signed but accurately depicting the above features, will
be posted on the county website, available for unrestricted access.
   (E)   Uncertainty of zone district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists as
to the actual boundaries of any zone district depicted on the digital zoning
map, the following rules to determine exact position apply:
      (1)   Where such boundaries are indicated as approximately following the
course of rivers, streams, streets, alleys, highways, or railroads, the
centerline of that feature will be the boundary;
      (2)   Upon vacation of any road, alley, or right-of-way, the zone
district adjacent to abutting property will extend to the centerline of the
vacated feature; and
      (3)   Where a zone district boundary is shown to follow a property line
or which bisects a lot or parcel, that boundary will be determined by survey;
      (4)   Where a zone district boundary follows a section line or quarter
section line, the boundary will be determined by survey; and
      (5)   Where uncertainty exists as to zone district boundary, it shall be
the responsibility of the affected property owner, by methods established
above, to provide data sufficient to prove the boundary to the satisfaction of
the Board of County Commissioners, unless the uncertainty exists due to mistake
or error by the county.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.211 INTERPRETATION.
   It is hereby acknowledged that this chapter cannot and should not attempt to
anticipate the myriad possible uses of land which may be proposed within its
jurisdiction, and that determining highest and best use of private property
rests solely with the property owner. However, it is also recognized that
specific uses of land could adversely affect the rights of adjoining property
owners to similarly enjoy his, her, or their use of property, as well as
detract from the values enjoyed by the general public as established in the
comprehensive plan. Land uses established in the succeeding subchapter are to
be considered general only, meant to portray the nature and types of use deemed
suitable for consideration within each zone district.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** ZONE DISTRICT SPECIFICATIONS ****
§ 154.225 USE CLASSES.
Zone Density High- occupancy Land Intense Light Moderate Unrestricted
Zone        Density High-       Land        Light       Moderate    Unrestricted
                    occupancy   Intense
Ag/For      10      Conditional Conditional Unregulated Unreg 500   Unregulated
Comm/Lt.    N/A     By permit   Conditional Unregulated Unregulated Unregulated
Industrial
Industrial  N/A     Conditional By permit   Unregulated Unregulated Unregulated
Prime Ag    10      Conditional Conditional Unregulated Unregulated Unregulated
Prime For   160     Unregulated Unregulated Unregulated Unregulated Unregulated
Residential 1/4 – As          Prohibited  As          As          Unregulated
            2.5     specified               specified   specified
Rur Comm/   1/4 – Conditional Prohibited  Unregulated Unregulated Unregulated
Cmrc        2.5
Rur/Res     5       Conditional Conditional Unregulated Unreg 500   Unregulated
Suburban    01/02/  Conditional Conditional Unreg 500   Unreg 1,000 Unregulated
            05
Notes to Table:
For the purpose of this table, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNREGULATED 500. Not regulated by the county when use is located more than
500 feet from any existing residence; conditional use when use is located less
than 500 feet from any existing residence.
   UNREGULATED 1,000. Unregulated when use is located more than 1,000 feet from
any existing residence; conditional use when use is located less than 1,000 feet
from any existing residence.
 
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.226 UNRESTRICTED USES.
   UNRESTRICTED USES are uses not regulated by the county in any zone district.
The intent of this class is to characterize property rights from the county’s
point of view. Idaho Const. Art. 1, § 1 defines the inalienable rights of
humans, stating, “All men are by nature free and equal, and have certain
inalienable rights, among which are enjoying and defending life and liberty;
acquiring, possessing, and protecting property; pursuing happiness and securing
safety.” While these uses are not regulated by the county, these uses may be
subject to state and federal regulation, including:
   (A)   Agriculture and silviculture and structures accessory to those uses;
   (B)   Animal husbandry, stables, fences, corrals, and other livestock
enclosures;
   (C)   Private recreational uses, such as camping, hunting and fishing,
parking and operation of recreational vehicles, motorcycles, ATVs, snowmobiles,
and the like;
   (D)   Accessory structures such as sheds, storage structures, greenhouses,
gazebos, shops, and garages;
   (E)   Remodeling or renovation of an existing structure;
   (F)   The placement of mobile or modular homes in a lawfully established
mobile home park;
   (G)   Fences, paths, and walkways;
   (H)   Construction, maintenance, and upgrade of roads;
   (I)   Water resource development, drilling water wells, drainage works,
ponds, and levy construction and maintenance;
   (J)   Outdoor parking of working vehicles, equipment, and trailers;
   (K)   Outdoor storage of materials and property, not to include refuse, out
of direct public view and less than half an acre in size;
   (L)   General yard maintenance, landscaping, and gardening;
   (M)   Woodstove, yard waste, slash and field burning;
   (N)   Firewood collection, storage, burning, and sale;
   (O)   Land clearing or alteration in response to an emergency such as fire,
flood, or slide, to include, but not limited to, levy, dike, and water control
maintenance and upgrade, construction of firebreaks, or other fire control
measures designed to limit damage in the event of fire;
   (P)   Events such as yard sales, reunions, flea markets, festivals, or other
such gatherings that do not exceed seven consecutive days in duration and at
which fewer than 500 people will attend at any one time;
   (Q)   Private sales of property through want ads, Craigslist, eBay, and the
like;
   (R)   Home school education of children, tutoring, and lessons;
   (S)   Work from a home office or a home-based business intended for profit
and which is conducted entirely within the owner or tenant’s primary residence
or in a residential accessory structure(s), and which have no outside storage
of materials, supplies, or wares in direct public view, to include seeing
clients;
   (T)   Signage for an on-site business, not to exceed 32 square feet, not
lighted;
   (U)   Hobbies, which may generate income and include sales, but which do not
require an state tax number;
   (V)   Power production less than 100 kilowatts; and
   (W)   Towers less than 50 feet in height.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.227 LIGHT USES.
   LIGHT USES are commercial uses with three or fewer full-time employees, less
than 20 trips through traffic per day. Noise similar to a lawnmower is
intermittent or present for less than five weeks a year. Light uses include:
   (A)   Outdoor construction for off-site assembly such as log home or
portable building construction, work area less than two acres in size;
   (B)   Intermittent small sawmill use;
   (C)   Service oriented business, such as construction or yard maintenance,
where work is primarily conducted off-site, but includes outdoor storage of
materials and equipment;
   (D)   Outdoor storage of materials and property, not to include refuse, out
of direct public view and less than one acre in size;
   (E)   Gravel borrow operation without crushing or blasting and selling less
than 2,000 yards of material per year;
   (F)   Service-oriented businesses conducted primarily in a building, such as
a garage, auto body, fabrication, or machine shop;
   (G)   Cottage industries such as a cabinet shop;
   (H)   Artisan studio, painting, pottery, blacksmithing, crafts, and the
like;
   (I)   Public or private school, fewer than 30 students;
   (J)   Public service facilities;
   (K)   Towers not to exceed 100 feet in height;
   (L)   Bed and breakfasts or vacation rentals;
   (M)   Commercial greenhouses and produce stands;
   (N)   Day care facilities;
   (O)   Boarding house, less than ten rooms; and
   (P)   Lighted signage not to exceed 32 square feet for on-site business.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.228 MODERATE USES.
   MODERATE USES are four to ten full-time employees, 20 to 100 trips through
traffic per day, noise sustained. Moderate uses include:
   (A)   Unregulated and light uses exceeding employee, traffic, or noise
limitations;
   (B)   Gravel borrow operations selling not more than 10,000 yards per year,
crushing or blasting limited to two weeks per year;
   (C)   Commercial facilities less than 5,000 square feet;
   (D)   Light industrial, warehousing and distribution facilities less than
8,000 square feet;
   (E)   Restaurants;
   (F)   Outdoor storage of materials and property out of direct view, not to
include refuse, and less than two acres in size;
   (G)   Noncommercial junkyard;
   (H)   Tourist attraction;
   (I)   Towers not exceeding 150 feet in height;
   (J)   Recreational commercial;
   (K)   Recreational hospitality, five or fewer units;
   (L)   Boarding house, more than ten rooms;
   (M)   Public or private school, more than 30 students;
   (N)   Mini storage;
   (O)   Small sawmill;
   (P)   Commercial kennels and animal boarding, except where prohibited;
   (Q)   Churches, community halls, and other like gathering places, less than
5,000 square feet;
   (R)   Small scale power production, 100 kilowatt up to one megawatt; and
   (S)   Lighted signage not to exceed 128 square feet for on-site business.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.229 HIGH-OCCUPANCY USES.
   HIGH-OCCUPANCY USES are more than 100 trips through traffic per day, and/or
more than ten full-time employees. High-occupancy uses include:
   (A)   Moderate uses exceeding employee or traffic limitations but not noisy
or odoriferous;
   (B)   Churches, community halls, and other like public gathering places
exceeding 5,000 square feet;
   (C)   Retail sales facilities exceeding 5,000 square feet;
   (D)   Recreational hospitality exceeding five units, such as hotel, motel,
resort, or conference center;
   (E)   Towers exceeding 150 feet;
   (F)   Apartment complex;
   (G)   Elder care retirement home; and
   (H)   Lighted or digital signage not to exceed 128 square feet for on-site
business.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.230 LAND-INTENSIVE USES.
   LAND-INTENSIVE USES are more than 100 trips through traffic per day, and/or
more than ten full-time employees. Noisy and/or odoriferous. Use does not
present substantial life safety concerns such as large explosive hazard,
potential large release of poison gas, and the like. Land-intensive uses
include:
   (A)   Moderate or high-occupancy use exceeding employee, traffic, noise, or
odor limitations;
   (B)   Gravel pits or quarries with sales exceeding 10,000 yards per year
with crushing and/or blasting;
   (C)   Mining, gas, and oil extraction;
   (D)   Towers exceeding 150-feet in height;
   (E)   Power production greater than one megawatt, such as biomass, wind
farm, and the like;
   (F)   Manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution greater than 8,000 square
feet;
   (G)   Processing or packaging plant; and
   (H)   Lighted or digital signage not to exceed 600 square feet for on-site
business.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.231 PRIME FORESTRY.
   (A)   Applicability. All designated lands lying within the jurisdiction of
the county owned or managed by agencies of state or federal government.
Acquisition of prime forestry land owned by anyone other than the state or
federal agency will mandate a rezone of the parcel to an appropriate zone (for
example, to Agriculture Forestry).
   (B)   Density. 160 acres.
   (C)   Structure setbacks.
      (1)   Conforming parcel. Front yard, 60 feet; side yard, 50 feet; back
yard, 50 feet.
      (2)   Platted lot or parcel of record. Front yard, 25 feet; side yard, 20
feet; back yard, 20 feet.
   (D)   Uses not regulated by the county. All activities specifically approved
by the United States Forest Service or the state.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.232 PRIME AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   Density. Ten acres.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. Property line, 25 feet.
   (C)   Uses not regulated by the county. Unrestricted class, light class, and
moderate class uses.
   (D)   Uses requiring county permit.
      (1)   One single-family primary residential structure on a buildable
parcel or lot.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling unit.
      (3)   New primary structure for light or moderate class uses on a
buildable parcel.
      (4)   Driveway access to a county road.
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   High-occupancy and land-intensive uses.
      (2)   Duplex, multi-family or multi-structure residential.
      (3)   Feed lots.
      (4)   Septage farms.
      (5)   Industrial uses.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   CAFO operations exceeding Idaho Code § 67-6529.
      (2)   Off-premises signs.
      (3)   Commercial junkyards.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.233 AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY.
   (A)   Density. Ten acres.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. Property line: 25 feet.
   (C)   Uses not regulated by the county.
      (1)   Unrestricted class and light class uses.
      (2)   Moderate class uses when located more than 500 feet from any
existing residence.
      (3)   Agriculture and silviculture and structures accessory to those
uses.
   (D)   Uses requiring county permit.
      (1)   One single-family primary residential structure on a buildable
parcel or lot.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling unit.
      (3)   New primary structure for unregulated light class or moderate class
uses.
      (4)   Off-site commercial greenhouses and produce stands.
      (5)   Driveway access to a county road.
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Moderate class use when located less than 500 feet from any
existing residence.
      (2)   High-occupancy and land-intensive uses.
      (3)   Duplex, multi-family or multi-structure residential.
      (4)   Animal boarding facilities, riding or equestrian training
facilities, veterinary
clinics.
      (5)   Feed lots.
      (6)   Industrial uses.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   CAFO operations exceeding Idaho Code § 67-6529.
      (2)   Off-premises signs.
      (3)   Commercial junkyards.
      (4)   Septage farms.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.234 RURAL RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Density. Five acres.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. Property line: 20 feet.
   (C)   Uses not regulated by county.
      (1)   Unrestricted class and light class uses.
      (2)   Moderate class uses when located more than 500 feet from any
existing residence.
   (D)   Uses requiring administrative development permit.
      (1)   One single-family primary or duplex residential structure on a
buildable parcel or lot.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling unit.
      (3)   New primary structure for unregulated light or moderate class uses.
      (4)   Driveway access to a county road.
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Moderate class use when located less than 500 feet from any
existing residence.
      (2)   High-occupancy and land-intensive class use.
      (3)   Multi-structure residential.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   CAFO operations exceeding Idaho Code § 67-6529.
      (2)   Off-premises signs.
      (3)   Commercial junkyards.
      (4)   Septage farms.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.235 SUBURBAN.
   (A)   Density.
      (1)   Where community water or sewer service are available, one acre.
      (2)   Where neither community water service or sewer service are
available, two acres.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. Property line, 20 feet.
   (C)   Uses not regulated by county.
      (1)   Unrestricted class uses.
      (2)   Light class uses when located more than 500 feet from any existing
residence.
      (3)   Moderate class use when located more than 1,000 feet from any
existing home.
   (D)   Uses requiring administrative development permit.
      (1)   One single-family primary or duplex residential structure on a
buildable parcel or lot.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling unit.
      (3)   New primary structure for unregulated light class or moderate class
uses.
      (4)   Driveway access to a county road.
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Multi-family or multi-structure residential.
      (2)   Light class use when located less than 500 feet from any existing
residence.
      (3)   Moderate class use when located less than 1,000 feet from any
existing residence.
      (4)   High-occupancy use.
      (5)   Land-intensive use.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   CAFO operations exceeding Idaho Code § 67-6529.
      (2)   Off-premises signs.
      (3)   Commercial junkyards.
      (4)   Feed lots.
      (5)   Commercial kennels and animal boarding facilities.
      (6)   Septage farms.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.236 RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Density.
      (1)   Where both community water and sewer service is available: 14
acres.
      (2)   Where community water or sewer service, but not both, are
available: one acre.
      (3)   Where neither community water service or sewer service are
available: two acres.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. 20 feet from a road, side yard, five feet, back
yard, five feet.
   (C)   Uses not regulated by the county. Unrestricted class uses.
   (D)   Uses requiring a county permit.
      (1)   One single-family primary or duplex residential structure on a
buildable parcel or lot.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling unit.
      (3)   Driveway access to a county road.
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Cottage industries, such as cabinet shop.
      (2)   Artisan studio, painting, pottery, blacksmithing, crafts, and the
like.
      (3)   Public or private school.
      (4)   Bed and breakfast or vacation rental.
      (5)   Day care facilities.
      (6)   Elder care retirement home.
      (7)   Multi-family or multi-structural residential.
      (8)   Recreational commercial or recreational hospitality.
      (9)   Churches and community halls.
      (10)   Service oriented business, such as construction or yard
maintenance, where work is primarily conducted off-site, but includes limited
outdoor storage of materials and equipment.
      (11)   Public service facilities.
      (12)   Towers exceeding 50 feet in height.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   CAFO operations exceeding Idaho Code § 67-6529.
      (2)   Land-intensive class uses.
      (3)   Off-premises signs.
      (4)   Commercial and noncommercial junkyards.
      (5)   Industrial uses.
      (6)   Gravel pits.
      (7)   Commercial kennels and animal boarding facilities.
      (8)   Septage farms.
      (9)   Feed lots.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.237 RURAL COMMUNITY/COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Density.
      (1)   Where community water and sewer service is available: one-fourth
acre.
      (2)   Where community water or sewer service, but not both, are
available: one acre.
      (3)   Where neither community water service or sewer service are
available: two and one-half acres.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. 20 feet from a road, side yard, five feet, back
yard, five feet.
   (C)   Uses not regulated by county. Unrestricted, light class and moderate
class uses.
   (D)   Uses requiring a county permit.
      (1)   One single-family primary or duplex residential structure and
accessory residential structures on a buildable parcel or lot.
      (2)   Accessory dwelling unit.
      (3)   Primary structures for light and moderate class uses.
      (4)   Driveway access to a county road.
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Multi-family or multi-structure residential.
      (2)   Light industrial uses with primary structures exceeding 5,000
square feet.
      (3)   Commercial uses with primary structures exceeding 5,000 square
feet.
      (4)   Industrial uses.
      (5)   Off-premises signs.
      (6)   Land-intense and high-occupancy class uses.
      (7)   Mobile home parks.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   CAFO operations exceeding Idaho Code § 67-6529.
      (2)   Commercial junkyards.
      (3)   Gravel pits, quarries, and mines.
      (4)   Commercial kennels and animal boarding facilities.
      (5)   Septage farms.
      (6)   Feedlots.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.238 COMMERCIAL/LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Density. None. Minimum parcel size must be sufficient to accommodate
the use and provide level of services necessary.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. 20 feet from a road, side yard, five feet, back
yard, five feet.
   (C)   Uses not regulated by the county.
      (1)   Unregulated, light, moderate, and high-occupancy class uses.
      (2)   Public service facilities.
   (D)   Uses requiring a county permit.
      (1)   Commercial and light industrial uses and commercial accessory
structures, with primary structures not exceeding 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Not more than one owner/caretaker’s residence per lot or parcel.
      (3)   Primary structures for light, moderate, and high-occupancy class
uses.
      (4)   Towers.
      (5)   Driveway access to a county road.
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Commercial and light industrial uses with primary structures
exceeding 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   Recreational commercial or recreational hospitality.
      (3)   Industrial uses.
      (4)   Commercial junkyards.
      (5)   Off-premises signs.
      (6)   Gravel pits, quarries, or mines.
      (7)   Land-intense class uses.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   CAFO operations exceeding Idaho Code § 67-6529.
      (2)   Residential use with the exception of an owner/caretaker residence.
      (3)   Septage farms.
      (4)   Feed lots.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.239 INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Density. None. Minimum parcel size must be sufficient to accommodate
the use and provide level of services necessary.
   (B)   Structure setbacks. 20 feet from a road, side yard, five feet, back
yard, five feet.
   (C)   Uses not regulated by the county.
      (1)   Unregulated, light and moderate class uses.
      (2)   Junkyards.
   (D)   Uses requiring a county permit.
      (1)   Primary structure for light and moderate class uses.
      (2)   Land-intense class use.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial uses.
      (4)   Not more than one owner/caretaker’s residence per lot or parcel.
      (5)   Driveway access to a county road.
   (E)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Off-premises signs.
      (2)   Uses which present substantial life safety concerns such as large
explosive hazard, potential large release of poison gas, and the like.
      (3)   Chemical processing or refining.
      (4)   High-occupancy class uses.
   (F)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   CAFO operations exceeding Idaho Code § 67-6529.
      (2)   Residential use with the exception of an owner/caretaker residence.
      (3)   Septage farms.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.240 AIRPORT OVERLAY.
   (A)   The provisions established within this section do not abrogate any
other provision of this chapter but add additional restrictions and
requirements in all areas in county jurisdiction that lie within airport
overlay areas as defined in division (B) below, maintained by the county
airport and incorporated into the electronic zoning map. No development will
hereafter occur within the airport overlay without approval by the Airport
Board or designee indicating compliance, as indicated by signature on the
application.
   (B)   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to create an airport
overlay zone that considers safety issues around the airport, regulates and
restricts the heights of constructed structures and objects of natural growth,
creates appropriate zones, establishing the boundaries thereof and providing
for changes in the restrictions and boundaries of such zones, creates the
permitting process for use within said zones, and provides for the enforcement,
violation penalties, appeals process and for judicial review.
      (2)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Boundary County Airport Overlay Zoning Ordinance,” and the zones created, in
their entirety, as the “Boundary County Airport Overlay Zone District.”
      (3)   Sponsor, governing authority, and Administrator. As used in this
section, the owner/sponsor of the county airport is the county. The owner/
sponsor hereby designates the Board of County Commissioners as the governing
authority for the county airport. The owner/sponsor hereby designates the
Airport Manager as the Administrator for the county airport. The owner/sponsor
hereby designates the Zoning Administrator as Administrator of this section.
      (4)   Relation to other zone districts. The Airport Overlay Zone District
does not modify the boundaries of any underlying zone district. Where
identified, the County Airport Overlay Zone District shall impose certain
requirements on land use and construction in addition to those contained in the
underlying zone district.
      (5)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         APPROACH/DEPARTURE SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the
extended runway centerline. The inner edge of the approach/departure surface is
the same width as the primary surface (500 feet), expanding uniformly to a
width of 3,500 feet.
            1.   The SOUTH APPROACH/DEPARTURE SURFACE (Runway 2), starts at the
south end of the runway extending 1,400 feet horizontally then from the corners
of the 500-foot primary surface then extending 10,000 feet to a final width of
3,500 feet at a slope of 40 to one.
            2.   The NORTH APPROACH DEPARTURE SURFACE (Runway 20), starts at
the northern corners of the primary surface and extends 5,000 feet northward to
a final width of 1,500 feet, at a slope of 20 feet outward for each foot
upward.
         CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for a horizontal
distance of 4,000 feet.
         HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which is constructed by swinging arcs a
radius of 10,000 feet from the center of each end of the primary surface of
each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs.
         NOTIFICATION ZONE. A surface extending from the nearest point of the
runway out 20,000 feet at a slope of 100 to one which requires notification to
the FAA via Form 7460-1 with one copy provided to the Airport Manager.
         PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway,
extending 500 feet each side of centerline pursuant to FAR part 77 and 1,400
feet beyond the south end and 200 feet beyond the north end. The elevation of
any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest
point on the runway centerline.
         RUNWAY. A defined area of the county airport prepared for landing and
takeoff of aircraft along its length.
         RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE. An area off the runway end used to enhance
protection to people and property on the ground. The RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE
lies on the surface of the ground and extends from the north and south corners
of the runway outward to a width of 675 feet at a distance of 1,200 feet.
         TRANSITIONAL SURFACE. Those surfaces that extend upward and outward at
90-degree angles to the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven feet
horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach/departure surfaces to the point of intersection with the horizontal
and conical surfaces. TRANSITIONAL SURFACES for those portions of the precision
approach/departure surfaces which project through and beyond the limits of the
conical surface, extend a distance of 10,000 feet measured horizontally from
the edge of the approach.
      (6)   Establishment of airport zones. There are hereby created and
established certain zones airport zones within the Airport Overlay Zone,
depicted on drawings hereby adopted as part of this section which include:
         (a)   APPROACH ZONE/DEPARTURE ZONE. The area under the approach/
departure surface;
         (b)   CONICAL ZONE. The area under the conical surface;
         (c)   HORIZONTAL ZONE. The area under the horizontal surface;
         (d)   NOTIFICATION ZONE. The area under the notification zone as
defined in §§
154.060 through
154.066;
         (e)   RUNWAY PROTECTION ZONE. The area under the Runway Protection
Zone as defined in §§
154.060 through
154.066; and
         (f)   TRANSITIONAL ZONE. The area under the transitional surface.
      (7)   Airport Zone height limitations. Except as otherwise provided in
this section, no structure shall be erected, altered or maintained and no tree
shall be allowed to grow so as to encroach from the ground into any of the
surfaces defined in §§
154.060 through
154.066.
      (8)   Land use compatibility requirements. Applications for land use or
building permits for properties within the boundaries of this Overlay Zone
shall comply with the following.
         (a)   General. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section,
no use shall be made of land or water within the Airport Overlay Zone District
in such a manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals
or radio communications between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for
pilots to distinguish between airport lights and others, impair visibility in
the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise endanger
or interfere with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft utilizing
the county airport.
         (b)   Structures. Regardless of the underlying zone district, any
structure within the Airport Overlay Zone which is allowed as a use by right
shall require application for a zoning certificate prior to the onset of
construction.
         (c)   Lighting. No new or expanded industrial, commercial,
recreational, or residential use shall project lighting directly onto an
existing runway, taxiway, or approach/departure surface except where necessary
for safe air travel. Lighting for these uses shall incorporate shielding to
reflect light away from airport approach/departure surfaces, and shall not
imitate airport lighting.
         (d)   Communications facilities and electrical interference. No use
shall cause or create electrical interference with navigational signals or
radio communications between an airport and aircraft. Approval of cellular and
other communications or transmission towers located within the Airport Overlay
Zone shall be conditioned to require their removal within 90 days of
discontinuance of use, and a performance bond shall be required.
         (e)   Noise. For any property within 10,000 feet of the runway. A
notification that noise levels may commonly exceed 55 dB shall be attached to
any subdivision or partition approval or other land use approval or building
permit. Such notification shall also be included in the closing documents, to
be signed by the purchaser, for any parcel entirely or partially within 10,000
feet of the runway. Any new construction within this area will be encouraged to
have increased sound insulation methods.
         (f)   Prohibited uses. Within the runway protection zone, new
residential development and public assembly facilities are hereby prohibited.
         (g)   Landfills. No new sanitary landfills, sewage lagoons, sewage
sludge disposal facilities, or similar facilities shall be permitted within
10,000 feet of the runway. Expansion of existing landfill or sewage disposal
facilities within this distance shall be permitted only upon demonstration that
such facilities shall be designed and operated so as not to increase the
likelihood of bird/aircraft collisions.
      (9)   Pre-existing nonconforming uses. The regulations prescribed by this
section shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations
as of the effective date of this section or otherwise interfere with the
continuance of a nonconforming use; however, the owner of any existing
nonconforming use shall be required to allow the installation, operation, and
maintenance of such markers and/or lighting as shall be deemed necessary the
Board of County Commissioners on recommendation by the Airport Manager, to
include written consensus from the Federal Aviation Administration or the State
Department of Transportation. No nonconforming use shall be structurally
altered so as to increase the nonconformity, and a nonconforming use, once
substantially abated, may only be reestablished so as to comply with the
provisions herein.
      (10)   Land use applications. Within 20,000 feet of the nearest point on
the runway, information must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator
concerning height limitations or zoning restrictions when any structure or tree
penetrates the Notification Zone.
      (11)   Permits. When an application for a land use permit meets the
criteria established in division (B)(8) above, no land use permit shall be
issued without the signature of the Zoning Administrator with written
recommendation of the Airport Administrator, who will verify that the
application meets the specifications set forth herein.
      (12)   Notice of land use and permit applications. The Zoning
Administrator shall provide the Airport Administrator written notice of all
applications and permits for land use within the Airport Overlay Zone. Notice
of land use applications requiring public hearing shall be provided at the same
time that written notice of such application is provided to property owners
entitled such notice. Written notice must be provided to the Federal Aviation
Administration for any structure that may penetrate the Notification Zone for
approval prior to construction as per FAA regulation 77.17(a) subject to the
discretion of the Airport Administrator prior to issuance of a permit.
      (13)   Variance. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of
any structure or permit the growth of any tree, or to use property in a manner
not in accordance with the provisions of this section may make application to
the Zoning Administrator for a variance from such regulations. The application
shall be accompanied by a determination from the Federal Aviation
Administration and the State Division of Aeronautics as to the effect of the
proposal on the operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient
use of navigable air space. Such variances shall be granted where it is duly
found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations will result
in unnecessary hardship and that relief granted will not be contrary to the
public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do
substantial justice and will be in accordance with the spirit of this section.
      (14)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted
pursuant to the provisions of this section may be conditioned to require the
installation and maintenance, at the owner’s expense, of such marking or
lighting as deemed necessary to assure both ground and air safety.
      (15)   Appeals.
         (a)   Any person aggrieved by any administrative decision made in
interpretation or enforcement of this section may appeal said decision to the
Board of County Commissioners by submitting a letter of appeal to the Zoning
Administrator. The letter of appeal should include the name, address and
telephone number of the appellant, the action or decision being appealed, and
full details and grounds for the appeal.
         (b)   Upon receipt of a letter of appeal, the Zoning Administrator
will determine whether the appeal affects adjacent property owners. If it is
determined that such affect exists, a public hearing will be scheduled on the
next available regular meeting agenda of the Board of County Commissioners,
allowing for public notification as established by Chapter 153 and this
chapter. If it is determined that the appeal will not affect adjacent property
owners, the appeal will be scheduled on the next available regular meeting
agenda of the Board with no public notification required.
         (c)   The Board may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the
Zoning Administrator, and shall provide written notice to the appellant of the
decision rendered. The decision shall be in writing, setting forth findings of
fact and conclusions in support of the decision.
         (d)   Recourse from any final decision rendered by the Board of County
Commissioners shall be to the courts as provided by law.
      (16)   Conflicting regulations. Where there exists a conflict between any
of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this section and any other
regulation applicable to the same area, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail.
      (17)   Figures. The figures regarding the Airport Overlay District found
in Ordinance 2017-2, passed 2-27-2017 have been adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 2-27-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.241 WETLANDS/RIPARIAN AREA OVERLAY.
   (A)   Basis for establishment. Digital data depicting wetlands provided the
County GIS Department by the United States Army Corps of Engineers or its
designee, and will be adapted for inclusion as a reference layer on the
electronic county zoning map. Riparian areas will be depicted on the official
electronic county zoning map using the National Hydrography Dataset maintained
by the GIS Department.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions established within this section do not
abrogate any other provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   Where a use requiring an administrative development permit is
proposed and found to be within or near an identified wetlands/riparian zone,
the Administrator will notify the applicant and provide the applicant
literature as provided by the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      (2)   Where a use subject to public hearing is proposed and found to lie
within or near an identified wetlands/riparian overlay, the United States Army
Corps of Engineers will be notified of said application through the public
hearing process, and such finding will be included in staff analysis for
consideration.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** NONCONFORMANCE ****
§ 154.255 APPLICABILITY.
   On the effective date of this codified ordinance, certain parcels, lots,
buildings, structures, and uses of land existed that were lawfully established
but do not conform to the requirements of this chapter. This chapter
establishes a method to allow the continuation of such nonconformances and to
legally recognize and regulate them.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 154.256 TYPES OF NONCONFORMANCE.
   (A)   Parcels and lots of record.
      (1)   In any zone district, where a parcel or lot can be verified to have
been lawfully created and described on a recorded legal instrument of
conveyance in accord with the applicable provisions of the county land use code
in effect at the time of the division, and such parcel or lot is smaller than
the minimum parcel size required for the zone district in which it lies, a
parcel or lot of record is deemed to exist. The Administrator shall use January
27, 2022 as the effective date of the official zoning map to determine
compliance with applicable laws relating to lot or parcel size.
      (2)   For the purpose of establishing a parcel or lot of record, the
Administrator may examine planning office, Assessor’s, and/or Clerk’s records
or may request the landowner provide legal documentation verifying the date and
method of conveyance by which the parcel or lot was partitioned. The
Administrator shall use July 20, 2017 as the effective date for subdivision law
to determine compliance with applicable county laws relating to land divisions.
In addition, any lot or parcel for which a placement permit for development of
a structure has been granted by the county and where such development has
occurred in reliance upon such permit shall be considered compliant for the
particular parcel/lot.
      (3)   The landowner may apply for a certificate of compliance requesting
the county determine whether a parcel or lot is compliant with the applicable
land use laws in effect at the time of creation and the effective dates
identified in this section. Upon receipt of sufficient documentation to prove
that the parcel or lot was lawfully established, the Zoning Administrator will
issue a certificate of compliance identifying the tract as a parcel or lot of
record. The Administrator may request the applicant provide a chain of title
report if there is insufficient documentation. If the Administrator determines
the land is not compliant with the applicable provisions of code, the
Administrator shall identify actions necessary to bring the land into
compliance. The required actions shall be limited to only those laws in effect
at the time of the land division.
      (4)   Parcels or lots of record shall enjoy the benefits and privileges
of a parcel or lot meeting the standards established within the zone district,
subject to the availability of services, but may not be further divided nor
adjusted so as to increase the nonconformity, except as allowed pursuant to
Chapter 153 or §§
154.300 through
154.308.
   (B)   Lots of record. In any zone district, where a lot is or has been
created by plat approved and recorded in the county, and said lot does not
conform to the provisions established herein, a lot of record shall be deemed
to exist, regardless of the date of platting. Such lot shall enjoy all benefits
and privileges of a lot meeting the standards established in the zone district
except as limited by applicable CCRs associated with the plat, subject to the
availability of services, but may not be further divided nor adjusted so as to
increase the nonconformity. A recorded plat depicting the lot of record shall
be sufficient to establish lawful existence.
   (C)   Structures of record.
      (1)   In any zone district, where a building or structure can be verified
to have been lawfully built prior to the effective date of this codified
ordinance and which does not meet the provisions established herein due to its
physical character or its placement on a parcel, lot or tract of land, a
structure of record shall be deemed to exist.
      (2)   Upon identifying a potential structure of record, the Administrator
will request from the owner legal documentation verifying the date the building
was constructed. Methods of verification may include permits acquired prior to
or during construction, assessor’s tax records, written verification by two or
more adjoining property owners attesting to the date of construction, or other
factual means.
      (3)   Upon receipt of sufficient documentation to prove that the
structure meets the criteria established herein and information sufficient to
complete an appropriate development permit application, including site plan
depicting the nonconformity, the Zoning Administrator will, at no fee to the
property owner, issue a building placement permit identifying the structure of
record.
      (4)   Structures of record may continue to be used and maintained in
repair, but will not be altered in such manner as to increase the
nonconformity, in either height or footprint. Should a structure of record be
razed or destroyed, the owner will submit an appropriate development permit
application prior to reconstruction, and any replacement structures will be
built and placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   A structure built prior to the effective date of this chapter that
is not in conformance with the provisions herein due solely to the purpose for
which it is used will be deemed a use of record, subject to the provisions of
division (D) below.
   (D)   Uses of record.
      (1)   In any zone district, where a use of land and/or structures can be
verified to have been lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
chapter that are not in conformance with the provisions established herein, a
use of record will be deemed to exist.
      (2)   Upon identifying a potential use of record, and at the request of
the property owner, the Administrator will request of the owner legal
documentation verifying the date and/or method by which the use was
established. Methods of verification may include permits acquired prior to
establishment of the use, tax records, or written verification by two or more
adjoining property owners attesting to the date of establishment, or other
factual means.
      (3)   Upon receipt of sufficient documentation to prove that the use
meets the criteria established herein, the Zoning Administrator will, at no
fee, obtain from the owner sufficient information as to complete the applicable
development permit application which would be required to establish similar use
under the provisions of this chapter and to define and establish the nature and
scope of the use. Where a public hearing would be required by this chapter to
obtain a permit to establish like use, the Administrator will schedule public
hearing on the next available agenda of the deciding body for that permit.
Except where a use creates public nuisance or to abate issues of public safety,
the deciding body may not disallow or curtail continuation of the use, but may
establish terms and conditions in accordance with the type application so as to
mitigate adverse impacts as well as to establish reasonable limitations on
future expansion.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019; Ord. 2023-2, passed 11-28-2022)
**** AMENDMENTS ****
§ 154.270 QUASI-JUDICIAL ZONE MAP AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Deciding body. The Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Applicability. All the county property owners have the right to make
application for a zone map amendment subject to the standards established
herein so as to amend the zoning of individual parcels or lots to allow
subsequent establishment of a proposed use which would not conform to existing
zoning; and all citizens of the county have the right to make application for a
zone map amendment affecting a specific area or region in which no specific use
is identified but wherein such zone amendment would better serve those property
owners affected.
   (C)   Petition for zone map amendment. When a petition, bearing the printed
name, mailing address, telephone number, and signature of 20 or more of the
county citizens or property owners is submitted requesting to amend the zoning
of any lands within the jurisdiction of this chapter the petition shall be
considered a legislative zone map amendment pursuant to §
154.271, and no fee shall attach to such petition. When such petition is
submitted, they whose name, address, and signature appear will all be included
for the purpose of public notification.
   (D)   Development agreements. Where a quasi-judicial zone map amendment
would be necessary for the establishment of a specific use, the property owner
or developer and the Board of County Commissioners may enter into a development
agreement governing the use of the subject parcel(s).
      (1)   Form of agreement. A proposed development agreement will be in
writing, prepared by the applicant and submitted at the time application for
zone map amendment is made, providing at minimum the legal descriptions of the
lots or parcels affected, a detailed description of the use proposed, a site
plan depicting the location of all structures, roads, parking areas, and other
salient features and a timeline for development. The proposed development
agreement will be considered as part of the application through the public
hearing process. In making a recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners, the Planning and Zoning Commission may also recommend amendments
to the development agreement.
      (2)   Approving a development agreement. The Board of County
Commissioners has sole authority to approve a development agreement as a
condition of amending the zone map, and may dictate the final form of the
agreement before a zone map amendment is approved. Before approving a
development agreement, the Board of County Commissioners will establish a set
duration of the agreement of not less than five years.
      (3)   Effect of agreement. On approval, a copy of the development
agreement, signed by the property owner and the Chair of the Board of County
Commissioners, will be recorded with the County Clerk of Court. When a
development agreement is approved and recorded as a condition of zone map
amendment, that agreement will become the controlling document for the use of
the parcel(s), binding on the property owner and any subsequent owner for the
duration of the agreement beginning on the effective date of the ordinance
amending the zone map.
      (4)   Terminating a development agreement.
         (a)   In the event a property owner or any subsequent owner fails to
establish a use according to an approved development agreement within two years
of the effective date of the agreement, the development agreement will be
deemed to lapse and the property will revert to the zoning it held prior to the
zone map amendment.
         (b)   In the event the owner or any subsequent owner alters the use or
fails to abide by terms and conditions established, the Board of County
Commissioners will give notice of intent to uphold the agreement to the owner
by certified mail, return receipt requested, and provide a specific date, not
to exceed 90 days from date of notice, by which to comply with the agreement or
on which date the agreement will be terminated and the zoning revert to that
held prior to the zone map amendment.
         (c)   Upon conclusion of the duration of the agreement, the
development agreement will terminate and the zoning will become permanent and
open to all uses afforded that zone.
   (E)   Administration.
      (1)   Applicant. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant, using
forms provided by the Administrator, to provide sufficient information, detail
and data so as to demonstrate to the recommending and deciding bodies that the
proposed zoning is compatible with the land to which it is proposed to attach,
and that uses allowed thereon will not impose undue adverse effects on
established uses in the area or undue burden on the provision of public
services, including public schools.
      (2)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed application for a zone
map amendment, along with applicable fee, the Administrator will schedule
public hearing on the next available agenda of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, allowing for public notification. At least one week prior to the
scheduled date of the hearing, the Administrator will mail copies of the
application and any public comment received to the members of the Commission,
along with a staff analysis which shall:
         (a)   Summarize the proposed amendment and, if applicable, the
specific use proposed by the application, including the type use should the
amendment be approved;
         (b)   Establish the specifics of the site or area on which amendment
is proposed, to include parcel number(s), legal description, existing zone
district designation, parcel size, surrounding zone district designations, and
surrounding general land uses;
         (c)   Identify any overlay, hazardous area, or special site affected
by the amendment proposal;
         (d)   Include a listing of the provisions of this chapter applicable
to the amendment proposed;
         (e)   Provide an analysis of applicable provisions of the
comprehensive plan; and
         (f)   Include a listing of options available to the Planning and
Zoning Commission in rendering a recommendation on the application;
      (3)   Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission
will hold public hearing on the proposed amendment, and, based on materials in
the application, the staff analysis and testimony presented in writing and
during public hearing, hold discussion to develop reasoned findings to support
a recommendation. Upon conclusion of public hearing and based upon discussion
held, the Planning and Zoning Commission may, by motion and majority vote:
         (a)   Recommend approval. Forward to the Board of County Commissioners
a recommendation to approve the zone map amendment and direct staff to prepare
written findings and recommendation, enunciating findings on each separate
component of the comprehensive plan, when it is determined that the proposal
meets the criteria established herein and the criteria established in the
comprehensive plan. At the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission,
final action may be tabled until the next regular meeting to allow review and
approval of the findings and recommendation;
         (b)   Recommend disapproval. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation that the amendment application be disapproved,
directing staff to prepare written findings and recommendation, enunciating
findings on each separate component of the comprehensive plan, when it is
determined that the proposal does not meet the criteria established herein or
the criteria established in the comprehensive plan. Where a specific use is
proposed and a lesser development permit application is available and
appropriate that would allow the establishment of that use, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may discuss possible terms and conditions and direct the
applicant and the Administrator to complete such application to be forwarded to
the Board of County Commissioners for its consideration. At the discretion of
the Planning and Zoning Commission, final action may be tabled until the next
regular meeting to allow review and approval of the findings and
recommendation; or
         (c)   Render considerations. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners written considerations when the Planning and Zoning Commission is
split and unable to reach consensus. These written considerations will specify
issues of contention and the rationale of members on each side of the issue, to
include any terms or conditions discussed. Final action will be tabled until
the next regular meeting to allow review and approval of the written
considerations, with motion and majority vote authorizing the Chair to sign.
      (4)   Board of County Commissioners. Upon receipt of findings and
recommendation, the Administrator will schedule public hearing on the next
available agenda of the Board of County Commissioners, allowing time for public
notification. The Board of County Commissioners will hold public hearing on the
proposed zone map amendment, and, based on the findings and recommendation of
the Commission, materials in the application, the staff analysis and testimony
presented in writing and during public hearing, hold discussion to consider the
provisions of this chapter and the comprehensive plan so as to develop reasoned
findings to support a decision. The Board will not be bound by the
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, but may, if the same
conclusion is reached, adopt or incorporate its findings. Upon conclusion of
public hearing and based upon discussion held, the Board may, by motion and
majority vote:
         (a)   Approve. Approve the zone map amendment and direct staff to
prepare written findings and decision and a draft ordinance to amend the zoning
map, enunciating findings on each separate component of the comprehensive plan,
when it is determined that the proposal meets the criteria established herein
and in the comprehensive plan;
         (b)   Table. Table or continue the hearing to a later date and time
certain to allow further consideration of the amendment proposed or to allow to
review and approval of written findings and decision; or
         (c)   Disapprove. Disapprove the amendment, directing staff to prepare
written findings and decision, enunciating findings on each separate component
of the comprehensive plan, when it is determined that the proposal does not
meet the criteria established herein or the criteria established in the
comprehensive plan. Where the Planning and Zoning Commission has forwarded
recommendation of a lesser permit that would allow establishment of a proposed
specific use, the Board may, through separate findings, grant or deny that
application pursuant to the provisions specific to that application.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.271 LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS.
   (A)   Amending the comprehensive plan and/or map.
      (1)   Purpose. To establish a process by which the text of the county
comprehensive plan or the comprehensive plan map may be amended so as to remain
current with changing factual data and conditions, and to allow adaptation to
unforeseen and unanticipated land use trends.
      (2)   Applicability. Amendments to the comprehensive plan or the
comprehensive plan map may be initiated by the Board of County Commissioners,
the Planning and Zoning Commission or by any interested citizen, however, the
Planning and Zoning Commission will bear the responsibility, pursuant to Idaho
Code § 67-6509, of considering the proposed amendment so as to determine
whether the amendment meets desirable land use goals and objectives and serves
the public interest.
      (3)   Administration. Requests for comprehensive plan or comprehensive
plan map amendments will be made on forms provided by the Administrator,
specifying the person or agency requesting the amendment, to include mailing
address and telephone number, the section of the plan to be amended, the
proposed language and the rationale for the amendment.
      (4)   Planning and Zoning Commission. Upon receipt of a request for
amendment of the comprehensive plan or map, the Administrator will provide
copies to each member of the Planning and Zoning Commission and schedule
discussion of the proposal on the next available regular meeting agenda. During
discussion, the person or agency making the request will have the opportunity
to present his, her, or their case, and the Planning and Zoning Commission will
determine whether the proposal may be reasonable and necessary and whether
further consideration is warranted.
         (a)   If it is determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission that
the amendment is not reasonable or necessary, it may disapprove the request,
providing the applicant written findings supporting the decision.
         (b)   If it is determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission that
the proposed amendment may be reasonable or necessary but that further
refinement is needed, the Administrator will be directed to schedule further
discussion on the next available agenda or arrange scheduling and location for
workshop(s).
         (c)   If it is determined by the Commission that the amendment may be
reasonable or necessary as drafted, the Administrator will be directed to
schedule public hearing on the next available agenda providing for public
notification process pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6509.
         (d)   After conducting at least one public hearing, the Commission
may:
            1.   Recommend approval. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of approval of the amendment as written,
providing written findings supporting the decision;
            2.   Recommend approval as amended. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of approval of the amendment with changes
specified, providing written findings supporting the decision;
            3.   Recommend Disapproval. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of disapproval, providing written findings
supporting the decision; or
            4.   Table for further review. Determine that additional refinement
is desirous, and direct the Administrator to schedule further discussion on the
next available agenda or arrange scheduling and location for workshop(s).
      (5)   Board of County Commissioners. Upon receipt of a recommendation
from the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Administrator will set public
hearing before the Board of County Commissioners providing for public
notification pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6509. After conducting at least one
public hearing, the Board may:
         (a)   Approve. Approve the amendment as written by resolution adopted;
         (b)   Approve as amended. Approve the amendment as amended by
resolution adopted;
         (c)   Disapprove. Disapprove the request for amendment, providing
written findings supporting the decision; or
         (d)   Table. Table the proposal for further amendment or refinement,
directing the Clerk to schedule time on the regular meeting agenda. At the
conclusion of such work, at least one additional public hearing shall be held
prior to a decision being rendered.
      (6)   Adoption of comprehensive. Upon adoption of a comprehensive plan
amendment, a copy of the amendment and resolution will be recorded with the
Clerk of Court.
   (B)   Comprehensive plan review.
      (1)   Applicability. The comprehensive plan review will consist of a
thorough examination of the entire content of the plan by interested citizens
and the Planning and Zoning Commission to determine whether the plan remains a
valid representation of the goals and desires of the majority of participants
in guiding land use. Such review shall be conducted at least once every ten
years, or whenever the Board of County Commissioners determine that such review
is necessary in the face of changing conditions. If the Planning and Zoning
Commission determines that review is necessary, they may forward to the Board
of County Commissioners recommendation that the comprehensive plan review be
conducted.
      (2)   Administration. At least one year prior to the tenth anniversary of
the date of adoption of the existing comprehensive plan, or whenever so
directed by the Board of County Commissioners, the Administrator will initiate
the following procedure:
         (a)   Schedule discussion of the comprehensive plan review process
with the Board of County Commissioners so as to establish budget;
         (b)   Schedule discussion of the comprehensive plan review process on
at least one Planning and Zoning Commission meeting agenda so as to develop
strategy and timelines for the conduct of the comprehensive plan review;
         (c)   Schedule a series of public informational meetings regarding the
process at various central locations throughout the county so as to invite and
encourage the highest level of public participation, allowing sufficient time
to publicize the meetings and the process using all available local media and
informational resources available. The Administrator or designated
representative will attend and moderate each meeting, and at least one member
of the Planning and Zoning Commission or Board of County Commissioners will be
in attendance. All interested parties, including members of the Commission and
the Board, will be encouraged to attend, and a contact list of all citizens
interested in participating in the review process will be maintained;
         (d)   Assign citizen committees, each chaired by a member of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, who will serve as moderator, to examine each
component of the comprehensive plan as required at Idaho Code § 67-6508. If new
components have been added by the legislature that are not part of the plan
being reviewed, committees will be formed to gather factual data pertinent to
each from which to draft that component;
         (e)   Schedule a series of committee workshops so as to thoroughly
analyze each factual component of the comprehensive plan as required at Idaho
Code § 67-6508, as well as to consider additional components that may be
necessary or desirous. Each committee will gather factual data pertinent to
each component to determine whether the existing plan remains current. If so,
the committee will recommend, in writing, that the component studied should be
retained. If not, the committee will proceed to draft an amended component so
as to reflect current conditions. Work will be publicized to the greatest
extent possible so as to keep the public informed of progress and direction and
to encourage continued participation, and the Board of County Commissioners
will be kept informed of progress through regularly scheduled meetings with the
Administrator;
         (f)   Upon conclusion of review of its component, each committee will
examine its section in the implementation component so as to ascertain that the
goals and objectives enunciated remain valid. If so, the committee will
recommend, in writing, that the current provisions be retained. If not, the
committee will draft a recommended amendment;
         (g)   When each committee has completed work on its specific
component, a series of workshops involving all participants will be scheduled
to examine the comprehensive plan in its entirety, to include the land use
component, the implementation component and the comprehensive land use map,
until the majority of members are satisfied that the current comprehensive plan
remains valid and desired or that a new proposed draft represents its best
effort. The entire committee may:
            1.   Recommend to the Planning and Zoning Commission that the
current comprehensive plan be retained;
            2.   Recommend to the Planning and Zoning Commission that the
current comprehensive plan be amended; or
            3.   Recommend to the Planning and Zoning Commission that the
current comprehensive plan be repealed and a new plan adopted.
         (h)   Upon conclusion of the above process, the Administrator will
schedule presentation of the committee recommendation on the next available
agenda of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and the Commission, by motion and
majority vote, will elect whether to conduct additional workshops to further
refine the proposed comprehensive plan or to proceed to public hearing as
drafted; and
         (i)   The Planning and Zoning Commission will hold at least one public
hearing on the committee’s recommendation, following public notification as
required at Idaho Code § 67-6509 and §§
154.285 through
154.288. Following public hearing, the Commission may:
            1.   Recommend adoption. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of adoption; or
            2.   Table. Schedule additional workshops to further refine the
proposed plan, to include the comprehensive land use map, conducting additional
public hearings any time a substantial change is made, until a majority of
Planning and Zoning Commission members, by motion and vote taken, are satisfied
that the proposed comprehensive plan represents its best effort in expressing
the interests of the community, at which time a recommendation shall be
forwarded to the Board with a recommendation of adoption;
      (3)   Copies. Upon receipt of a recommendation of adoption from the
Planning and Zoning Commission, the Administrator will provide copies as
proposed to each member of the Board of County Commissioners and allow at least
30 days for its review. After the review period ends, the Administrator will
schedule meeting on the next available agenda to allow discussion of concerns
and a decision either to remand the plan back to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for further refinement or to proceed to public hearing;
      (4)   Public hearing. Upon decision to proceed to public hearing, the
Administrator will schedule public hearing before the Board of County
Commissioners, allowing for public notification pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-
6509 and §§
154.285 through
154.288. Following public hearing, the Board may:
         (a)   Retain. Retain the existing comprehensive plan and comprehensive
plan map by resolution adopted;
         (b)   Amend. Amend the existing comprehensive plan and comprehensive
plan map by resolution. In the event the comprehensive plan or comprehensive
plan map is amended, the Board of County Commissioners will direct the Planning
and Zoning Commission to review the zoning and subdivision ordinance and zoning
map to recommend amendments or redrafting to meet the goals and objectives of
the amended comprehensive plan;
         (c)   Repeal and adopt. Repeal the existing comprehensive plan and
comprehensive plan map and adopt a new comprehensive plan and comprehensive
plan map by resolution. In the event the comprehensive plan or comprehensive
plan map is repealed and a new plan and map approved, the Board of County
Commissioners will direct the Planning and Zoning Commission to review the
zoning and subdivision ordinance and zoning map to recommend amendments or
redrafting to meet the goals and objectives of the adopted comprehensive plan
and comprehensive plan map; or
         (d)   Table. Table the proposal so as to further refine the proposed
plan, to include the comprehensive land use map, in regular meeting or
workshop. Additional public hearings will be held until a majority of County
Commission members, by motion and vote taken, are satisfied that the proposed
comprehensive plan represents its best effort in expressing the interests of
the community, at which time the current comprehensive plan shall be amended or
repealed and the new comprehensive plan and comprehensive plan map shall be
adopted by resolution.
      (5)   Amendment. Upon amendment or adoption, the comprehensive plan and
comprehensive land use map will be recorded with the Clerk of Court.
   (C)   Amending this chapter and
Chapter 153.
      (1)   Applicability. Amendments to the Zoning and Subdivision Ordinance
may be initiated by the Board of County Commissioners, the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Administrator or by any interested citizen, however, the
Planning and Zoning Commission will bear the responsibility of determining
whether the proposed amendment meets the goals and objectives of the
comprehensive plan and serves the public interest.
      (2)   Administration.
         (a)   Requests for amendments of this chapter or
Chapter 153 will be made on forms provided by the Administrator, specifying the
person or agency requesting amendment, to include mailing address and telephone
number, the provisions to be considered, the language proposed and the
rationale or purpose for the amendment. Proposals should cite appropriate
comprehensive plan provisions that support the request.
         (b)   Upon receipt of a request for amendment of this chapter or
Chapter 153, the Administrator will provide copies to each member of the
Planning and Zoning Commission and schedule discussion of the proposal on the
next available agenda. During discussion, the person or agency making the
request will have the opportunity to present his, her, or their case, and the
Commission will determine whether the proposal may be reasonable and necessary
and whether further consideration is warranted.
            1.   If it is determined by the Commission that the amendment is
not reasonable or necessary, the Commission may disapprove the request,
providing written findings supporting the decision.
            2.   If it is determined by the Commission that the proposed
amendment may be reasonable or necessary but that further refinement is needed,
the Administrator will be directed to schedule further discussion on the next
available agenda or arrange scheduling and location for workshop(s).
            3.   If it is determined by the Commission that the amendment may
be reasonable or necessary as presented, the Administrator will be directed to
schedule public hearing and initiate the public notification process pursuant
to Idaho Code § 67-6509 and §§
154.285 through
154.288.
            4.   After conducting at least one public hearing, the Commission
may:
               a.   Recommend approval. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of approval of the amendment as presented,
providing written findings supporting the decision;
               b.   Recommend approval as amended. Forward to the Board of
County Commissioners a recommendation of approval of the amendment with changes
specified, providing written findings supporting the decision;
               c.   Recommend disapproval. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of disapproval, providing written findings
supporting the decision; or
               d.   Table. Determine that additional refinement is desirous,
and direct the Administrator to schedule further discussion on the next
available agenda or arrange scheduling and location for workshop(s). Following
amendment through the conduct of workshops or further discussion, at least one
additional public hearing will be held before the Planning and Zoning
Commission prior to a recommendation being forwarded, even if no substantial
change has been made.
      (3)   Board of County Commissioners. Upon receipt of a recommendation
from the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Administrator will schedule public
hearing before the Board of County Commissioners and public notification will
be made pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6509 and §§
154.285 through
154.288. After conducting at least one public hearing, the Board of County
Commissioners may:
         (a)   Disapprove. Disapprove the request for amendment, providing
written findings supporting the decision;
         (b)   Approve. Approve the amendment as presented by the ordinance
adopted;
         (c)   Approve as amended. Approve the amendment as amended by the
ordinance adopted; or
         (d)   Table. Table the proposal for further amendment or refinement,
directing the Clerk to schedule time on the regular meeting agenda. At the
conclusion of such work, at least one additional public hearing will be held
prior to a final decision being rendered.
   (D)   Legislative zone map amendments.
      (1)   Purpose. To establish procedures by which the zone district
designation of large tracts or areas of the county involving multiple property
ownership may be amended to adapt to changing conditions or to more closely
conform to the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan and the
comprehensive land use map.
      (2)   Applicability. Legislative amendments to the zone district map may
be initiated by the Board of County Commissioners, the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Administrator or by any interested citizen by petition as
specified in §
154.270(C), however, the Planning and Zoning Commission will bear the
responsibility of determining whether the proposed amendment meets the goals
and objectives of the comprehensive plan and serves the public interest.
      (3)   Administration.
         (a)   Requests for legislative amendments of zoning map will be made
on forms provided by the Administrator, specifying the person or agency
requesting amendment, to include mailing address and telephone number, a map
showing the areas proposed for amendment and the proposed zoning, and a
narrative explaining why the amendment is necessary. Proposals should cite
appropriate comprehensive plan provisions that support the request.
         (b)   It will be the responsibility of the Administrator to determine
whether the proposed amendment is legislative or quasi-judicial.
      (4)   Planning and Zoning Commission. Upon receipt of a request for
legislative amendment of the zone map, the Administrator will provide copies to
each member of the Planning and Zoning Commission and schedule discussion of
the proposal on the next available agenda. During discussion, the person or
agency making the request will have the opportunity to present his, her, or
their case, and the Planning and Zoning Commission will determine whether the
proposal may be reasonable and necessary and whether further consideration is
warranted.
         (a)   If it is determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission that
the amendment is not reasonable or necessary, it may disapprove the request,
providing written findings supporting the decision.
         (b)   If it is determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission that
the proposed amendment may be reasonable or necessary but that further
refinement is needed, the Administrator will be directed to schedule further
discussion on the next available agenda or arrange scheduling and location for
workshop(s).
         (c)   If it is determined by the Planning and Zoning Commission that
the amendment may be reasonable or necessary as presented, the Administrator
will be directed to schedule public hearing pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6509
and §§
154.285 through
154.288.
         (d)   After conducting at least one public hearing, the Planning and
Zoning Commission may:
            1.   Recommend approval. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of approval of the amendment as presented,
providing written findings supporting the decision;
            2.   Recommend approval as amended. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of approval of the amendment with changes
specified, providing written findings supporting the decision; or
            3.   Recommend disapproval. Forward to the Board of County
Commissioners a recommendation of disapproval, providing written findings
supporting the decision.
      (5)   Board of County Commissioners. Upon receipt of a recommendation
from the Commission, the Administrator will schedule public hearing before the
Board of County Commissioners and public notification made pursuant to Idaho
Code § 67-6509 and §§
154.285 through
154.288. After conducting at least one public hearing, the Board may:
         (a)   Approve. Approve the amendment as presented by ordinance
adopted;
         (b)   Approve as amended. Approve the amendment as changed by the
Board of County Commissioners by ordinance adopted;
         (c)   Disapprove. Disapprove the request for amendment, providing
written findings supporting the decision; or
         (d)   Table. Table the proposal for further amendment or refinement,
directing the Clerk to schedule time on the regular meeting agenda. At the
conclusion of such work, at least one additional public hearing will be held
prior to a decision being rendered.
   (E)   Workshops.
      (1)   During the course of developing legislation as defined herein, the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of County Commissioners may
convene workshop sessions as needed to allow the gathering and dissemination of
data and information, for reviewing, discussing, and editing proposed
legislation or amendment, or other such activities which cannot be effectively
accomplished during regular meetings or at public hearing.
      (2)   Workshops are conducted with less formality than regular meetings
or public hearings, but the following provisions apply.
         (a)   Workshops will be conducted as special meetings in accordance
with the State Open Meeting Law, Idaho Code §§ 74-201 through 74-208, included
on the applicable agenda and be posted outside the Planning and Zoning
Commission’s office at least five days prior to the workshop.
         (b)   Written minutes will be kept and made available to the public
within a reasonable time following the workshop.
         (c)   At Planning and Zoning Commission workshops, no quorum will be
required provided at least one Planning and Zoning Commission member and a
member of staff are present and that no final actions are taken or motion
called.
         (d)   At Planning and Zoning Commission workshops, members of the
public may be allowed to participate, provided notice so states.
         (e)   All work performed during workshops will be legislative and
subject to subsequent public hearing.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** PUBLIC HEARINGS AND NOTIFICATION ****
§ 154.285 PURPOSE.
   To provide for the efficient dissemination of public information regarding
pending land use applications upon which a quasi-judicial or legislative
decision will be rendered so as to enable participation in the public hearing
process by interested parties and to establish the order of proceedings during
public hearing pursuant to Idaho Code.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.286 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
   When so required by the provisions established herein, the following
procedures will be followed to ensure the widest public notification of land
use proposals and to allow for the receipt of public participation and comment.
In the event any portion of the public notification process is subsequently
found faulty, the hearing for which such notice was made will be opened and
tabled to allow proper public notification.
   (A)   Legal publication. Upon receipt of a development permit application
for a use requiring public hearing, the Administrator will establish the date,
time and location of the meeting during which the application will be
considered, and cause to be published in the official newspaper of record a
legal notice not less than 15 calendar days prior to the date the hearing is
scheduled. Legal notice will contain, at minimum:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The type use being proposed and a brief description of that use;
      (3)   The parcel number upon which the use is proposed and a general
description of the location;
      (4)   The date, time, and location of the public hearing;
      (5)   The address to which written comment should be submitted and the
deadline for receipt of written comment;
      (6)   A telephone number for those seeking additional information; and
      (7)   The location where the full record may be reviewed.
   (B)   County department review. Not less than 15 days prior to the date of
public hearing, the Administrator will provide review copies of the application
subject to public hearing to affected county departments for review and
comment.
   (C)   Mailed notification. Pursuant to Idaho Code, the Administrator will
draft a “Notice of Public Hearing” containing at minimum the information
contained in the legal notice, to be mailed by first-class post prior to
publication of the legal notice to:
      (1)   The applicant and any agent(s) engaged by the applicant as
indicated in the application. In addition to notice, the applicant or
designated agent will also be sent an invoice of mailing listing names and
addresses of all entities and persons to whom notice was mailed, as well as the
overall cost of mailing. No final permit will be issued until the mailing
invoice is paid. It will be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that
the mailing list is complete and to notify the Administrator immediately of any
additional agencies or individuals who should receive notice;
      (2)   All affected governmental and quasi-governmental agencies; and
      (3)   All property owners within 300 feet of the lot or parcel upon which
the use is proposed. Where the applicant owns additional properties adjoining
that on which the use is proposed, the applicant’s entire holding will be
considered a single parcel for the purpose of mailing.
   (D)   Published notice in lieu of mailing. Pursuant to Idaho Code, when an
application is regional in scope and affects more than 200 property owners, a
display advertisement in the newspaper of record not less than four inches by
two columns in size may be published at least once, beginning at least 15
calendar days prior to the date of hearing, in lieu of mailing notices.
   (E)   Posting property. At least seven calendar days prior to the date of
hearing, the Administrator will cause to be posted a legible sign in a visible
location on the property on which the use is proposed, pursuant to Idaho Code.
This sign will at minimum provide a brief overview of the application, the
date, time, and location of the hearing, and a method by which those interested
may obtain additional information. At his or her discretion, the Administrator
may direct the applicant to post the property and provide photographic proof
and date that the sign was posted.
   (F)   Notifying members. At least one week prior to the scheduled hearing
and subsequent to the deadline established for receipt of written comment, the
Administrator will duplicate all application materials, written testimony and
staff analysis so as to provide each member to sit in public hearing a complete
copy of the application as available to the general public. Record of public
notification may be omitted from member notice.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.287 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   General. Public hearings are official proceedings governed by Idaho
Code and the procedures established herein. During public hearing, all parties
interested in the decision under consideration will be afforded the opportunity
to be heard, though a time limit on testimony may be established at the outset
at the discretion of the presiding Chair.
   (B)   Record to be maintained. All public hearings will be recorded to
provide a transcribable audio record, and such recordings will be maintained by
the Zoning Administrator for a period of not less than six months from the date
of the public hearing. Written minutes shall be maintained of all public
meetings, to include public hearings, and maintained as a permanent record for
a period of not less than 25 years. If the minutes are subsequently typed, the
original notes from which the minutes were typed will be maintained as part of
the hearing record.
   (C)   Ex parte contact/conflict of interest. Public hearings will be
conducted pursuant to the State Open Meeting Law, Idaho Code §§ 74-201 through
74-208, and no member will seek or accept comment, testimony or information
outside the established public hearing process; or sit on the panel when
conflict of interest exists during any quasi-judicial public hearing. Should a
member have concern regarding potential ex parte contact or conflict of
interest, that member will disclose these concerns to the sitting chair prior
to the hearing being opened to public testimony, and the chair will render a
decision as to whether such concern constitutes ex parte contact or conflict of
interest. When ex parte contact or conflict of interest is declared, the member
may elect to absent themselves from the room during that hearing or sit in the
gallery as a member of the public. A member so removed may give testimony as a
member of the public, but cannot participate in the decision making process. Ex
parte contact and conflict of interest do not apply in a legislative public
hearing.
   (D)   Lack of quorum or absence of staff. In the event of a lack of quorum
or absence of staff, scheduled public hearings will be opened and tabled to a
set date and time, with no additional public notice required.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.288 ORDER OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Hearing Chair will open the meeting and describe the public
hearing procedure. When multiple public hearings are included on a single
agenda, review of the procedure need only occur once at the beginning of the
meeting.
   (B)   Prior to accepting testimony during a quasi-judicial public hearing,
the Chair will call for conflicts of interest or ex parte contact among members
specific to the proposal being heard.
   (C)   The Chair will open public hearing and briefly describe the
application.
   (D)   The applicant or designated representative may give an opening
statement. Members may ask questions of the applicant. Absence of the applicant
or representative at public hearing will not automatically result in
postponement of the public hearing, but members may table the hearing should it
be determined that the applicant’s presence is necessary so as to allow an
informed decision. Likewise, if the applicant knows or finds that attendance at
the meeting will not be possible, the applicant may notify the Administrator
prior to the hearing and request either that the hearing continue despite the
absence or that the hearing be tabled to allow attendance. If the request is to
hold the hearing despite the absence, such request will be provided the Chair
at public hearing in lieu of the applicant’s opening statement. If the request
is to table the public hearing, a time and date certain for reconvening the
hearing will be set and announced to all interested parties in attendance, and
no additional public notification will be required. If no time and date certain
is set, the public notification process set forth in §
154.286, will be repeated prior to reconvening the public hearing at the
applicant’s expense.
   (E)   The Administrator or designee may give staff report. Members may ask
questions of the Administrator.
   (F)   The hearing will be opened to public testimony, first from those in
favor of the proposal, next from those uncommitted on the proposal and finally
from those opposed to the proposal. Members may ask questions of each speaker.
   (G)   The applicant will have the opportunity to provide a closing statement
to clarify the application and rebut concerns. Members may ask questions of the
applicant.
   (H)   If, as a result of testimony received, a material change has been made
to the application, the Chair will declare the substantial change and reopen
the hearing to public testimony specific to that change.
   (I)   Upon conclusion of all testimony, the Chair will close the hearing to
public testimony and call for discussion and deliberation by members. No
further questions will be asked of the applicant or members of the public, and
no additional public comment will be accepted without reopening the hearing to
public testimony. Discussion will be aimed toward establishing reasoned
findings upon which to base a recommendation or decision.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
**** PARCEL DIVISIONS ****
§ 154.300 DECIDING BODY.
   The deciding body is the Administrator.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.301 APPLICABILITY.
   Except where exempt at §
154.302, a development permit authorizing parcel division must be obtained
prior to the partition of any parcel within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.302 EXEMPTIONS.
   Provisions of this section do not apply when all new parcels created are not
platted and equal or exceed 20 acres or one-thirty-second aliquot portion of a
section in size, nor will these provisions or minimum parcel size requirements
apply when:
   (A)   Parcels are created for lease solely for the purpose of agricultural
or silvicultural production and harvest;
   (B)   Parcels are created for mineral, oil, or gas leases;
   (C)   Parcels are created for the placement of government services, public
utilities, or rights-of-way;
   (D)   Parcels are divided for the sole purpose of burial or interment within
an approved cemetery;
   (E)   Parcels are established through testamentary provisions or the laws of
descent, provided the parcel meets or exceeds the density of the zone in which
the parcel resides;
   (F)   Divisions of land ordered by a court of competent authority in the
county, provided documentation is provided the Administrator so as to identify
parcels so created; and
   (G)   Division of a single portion of a parcel for the sole purpose of
obtaining financing, provided the portion encumbered and the remainder remain
under single ownership and that both parcels so created consolidate again into
a single parcel upon satisfaction of the debt; or, in the event of foreclosure,
documentation from the lender be provided the administrator so as to identify
parcels so created.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.303 CLASSES OF PARCEL DIVISION.
   (A)   Parcel line adjustment. A change in the legal description of a line
dividing unplatted parcels where no additional parcels are created. It is
available by permit approved by the Administrator. Criteria for approval are
based on how the changing parcel sizes impact the zone density minimums.
Approval is indicated when the resulting parcels each have an approved driveway
approach from a county road or state highway displayed on a record of survey
and each meet or exceed the density within that zone, and no additional parcel
is created; or if on balance, the parcel line adjustment reduces the
nonconformity of an existing legally created parcel of record. If a parcel line
adjustment does increase nonconformity, the administrator must verify that the
adjustment is not intended to create an additional parcel and circumvent
minimum zone density acreages. If a parcel line adjustment is approved and a
subsequent application is made by the same owner for further parcel line
adjustments of the original parcels then platting will be required and must
include any unsold parcels previously adjusted by a parcel line adjustment.
   (B)   Simple parcel division. A simple parcel division is an unplatted
parcel division creating four or fewer parcels, each meeting or exceeding the
density in the zone district in which it lies and each parcel having approved
driveway approach from a county road or state highway. Prior to the conveyance
of any parcels the applicant shall meet the final record of survey
requirements. If a simple parcel division is approved and a subsequent
application is made by the same owner for further subdividing the original
parcel, then platting will be required and must include any unsold parcels
previously divided by simple parcel division. This provision may not be used to
divide parcels created with the 20 acre exemption, or primitive parcel
division.
   (C)   Primitive parcel division. A primitive parcel division is an unplatted
parcel division creating two parcels, each meeting or exceeding the density in
the zone district in which it lies. In addition, each parcel so created will
have, at minimum, defined access and utility easements from an existing private
road displayed on a record of survey. Prior to the conveyance of any parcels
the applicant shall meet the final record of survey requirements. Primitive
parcel divisions must accurately disclose the level of services or lack thereof
on the face of a record of survey. If a primitive parcel division is approved
and a subsequent application is made for further subdividing the original
parcel, then platting will be required, and must include any unsold parcels
previously divided by primitive parcel division. This provision may not be used
to divide parcels created with the 20 acre exemption, or simple parcel
division.
   (D)   Other parcel divisions. Parcel divisions exceeding the limitations
above may be pursued with platting as provided in
Chapter 153.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.304 ADMINISTRATION: PARCEL LINE ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Applicant. Applications for parcel line adjustment will be made on
forms provided by the Administrator, all applications shall include the names
of each owner and his, her, or their respective ownership interest in the
property to be divided, and bear the signatures of all parties holding
ownership interest indicating approval of the partition of the property.
Applications must include a site sketch sufficient to approximately depict the
dimensions of each parcel and their size, in acres, and any legal easements or
rights-of-way encumbering the parcel involved in the line adjustment.
   (B)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed application for parcel line
adjustment, the Administrator will provide copies to all interested county
departments, including the Assessor’s office.
   (C)   Consideration. The Administrator will consider the following when
reviewing an application for a parcel line adjustment:
      (1)   Did the application meet the requirements established herein?;
      (2)   If the adjusted parcel sizes reduce nonconformity to zone acreage
minimums, then approval is indicated; and
      (3)   If an adjusted parcel size increases nonconformity to zone acreage
minimums, then approval is subject to establishing that the purpose of the
parcel line adjustment is not to create a new parcel and circumvent zone
acreage minimums.
   (D)   Decision. After considering an application for parcel line adjustment
the Administrator may:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the application and issue a permit. When the new
legal descriptions have been recorded, the Administrator will issue a
certificate of compliance, and inform the Assessor’s office of the parcel size
changes; or
      (2)   Deny. Deny the application, advising the applicant in writing the
reason for denial, and the applicant’s right to appeal.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.305 ADMINISTRATION: SIMPLE PARCEL DIVISION.
   (A)   Applicant. Applications for simple parcel division will be made on
forms provided by the Administrator, all applications shall include the names
of each owner and his, her, or their respective ownership interest in the
property to be divided, and bear the signatures of all parties holding
ownership interest indicating approval of the partition of the property.
Applications must include a preliminary site sketch sufficient to approximately
depict the dimensions of each parcel and their size, in acres, and any legal
easements or rights of way encumbering the parcel to be divided. Applications
must be signed by an authorized representative of the County Treasurer stating
that property taxes are current or arrangements have been made to bring them
current, and by an authorized representative of the County Road and Bridge
Department or the State Transportation Department approving driveway easement
access to each parcel created.
   (B)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed application for simple
parcel division, the Administrator will provide copies to all interested county
departments, including the Assessor’s office.
   (C)   Consideration. The Administrator will consider the following when
reviewing an application for a simple parcel division:
      (1)   Did the application meet the requirements established herein?;
      (2)   Did the application meet the requirements of the County Road and
Bridge Department or the State Transportation Department for driveway access?;
      (3)   Have concerns raised by affected county departments been met?; and
      (4)   Whether the parcel was created by a previous primitive or simple
parcel division, or the 20 acre exemption, to assure platting is not required.
   (D)   Decision. After considering an application for simple parcel division
the Administrator may:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the application, issuing a certificate of
compliance; or
      (2)   Deny. Deny the application, advising the applicant in writing the
reason for denial, and the applicant’s right to appeal.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.306 ADMINISTRATION: PRIMITIVE PARCEL DIVISION.
   (A)   Applicant. Applications for primitive parcel division must be made on
forms provided by the Administrator, all applications shall include the names
of each owner and his, her, or their respective ownership interest in the
property to be divided and bear the signatures of all parties holding ownership
interest indicating approval of the partition of the property. Applications
must include a sketch showing access and utility easements sufficient to
approximately depict the dimensions of each parcel and their size, in acres,
and any legal easements or rights of way encumbering the parcel to be divided.
Applications must be signed by an authorized representative of the County
Treasurer stating that property taxes are current or arrangements have been
made to bring them current, and by an authorized representative of the County
Road and Bridge Department or the State Transportation Department approving
driveway easement access to each parcel created.
   (B)   Administrator. Upon receipt of a completed application for primitive
parcel division, the Administrator will provide copies to all interested county
departments, to include the Assessor’s office, the Treasurer’s office, the
County Road and Bridge Department, and GIS Addressing Department.
   (C)   Consideration. The Administrator will consider the following when
reviewing an application for a primitive parcel division:
      (1)   Did the application meet the requirements established herein?;
      (2)   Did the application meet the requirements of the County Road and
Bridge Department or the State Transportation Department for driveway access?;
      (3)   Have concerns raised by affected county departments been met?; and
      (4)   Whether the parcel was created by a previous primitive or simple
parcel division, or the 20 acre exemption, to assure platting is not required.
   (D)   Decision. After considering an application for primitive parcel
division the Administrator may:
      (1)   Approve. Approve the application, issuing a certificate of
compliance; or
      (2)   Deny. Deny the application, advising the applicant in writing the
reason for denial, and the applicant’s right to appeal.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.307 FINAL RECORD OF SURVEY REQUIREMENTS.
   Following the approval of a parcel division application and prior to the
conveyance of any parcels, the applicant shall cause to be drawn a record of
survey which shall include the following:
   (A)   The point of beginning of survey and descriptions and locations of
monuments in accordance with the provisions of Idaho Code;
   (B)   The centerlines and widths of all existing or proposed streets, roads,
and alleys;
   (C)   The length and bearing of the lines of all streets, roads, alleys,
rights-of-way, and easements;
   (D)   A place for the signature of the Administrator certifying requirements
for final record of survey have been met; and
   (E)   A place for the signature of the County Clerk of Court certifying
recording of the record of survey.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.308 TERMINATING AN APPLICATION FOR PARCEL DIVISION.
   An approved simple or primitive parcel division shall lapse if conveyance
documents with the property’s legal description have not been recorded in the
County Records Department within two years of the date of approval.
(Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Infractions. A civil public offense not constituting a crime,
for which a penalty not to exceed $100 per occurrence may be imposed. As
annotated in this chapter, infraction violations include:
         (a)   Failure to comply with standards for specific use;
         (b)   Failure to obtain a residential placement permit;
         (c)   Failure to file simple subdivision or final plat (see §
153.99);
         (d)   Failure to comply with a conditional use permit;
         (e)   Failure to comply with a special event permit;
         (f)   Failure to comply with a temporary use permit;
         (g)   Failure to comply with building requirements of the floodplain
overlay; and
         (h)   Failure to file parcel.
      (2)   Separate violation may exist. A separate violation may be deemed to
occur each week an adjudicated infraction continues to exist without abatement,
beginning on the date of adjudication, as established in §
154.045. In the case of illegal structure placement, where no simple remedy to
move the structure exists, and there is no unreasonable risk to public safety,
a judge may impose a fine up to $1,000. Once the infraction is paid by the
homeowner, this will preclude the county from taking further action unless the
structure is subsequently modified without an approved variance.
      (3)   Misdemeanors. A crime punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000 per
occurrence. As annotated in this chapter, misdemeanor violations include:
         (a)   Failure to comply with structure placement requirements;
         (b)   Failure to comply with airport overlay;
         (c)   Failure to obtain or comply with a commercial/industrial
placement permit;
         (d)   Failure to obtain a conditional use permit, or the third
violation of the same condition of the permit;
         (e)   Failure to obtain a special event permit, or the third violation
of the same condition of the permit;
         (f)   Failure to obtain a temporary use permit, or the third violation
of the same condition of the permit;
         (g)   Establishing a prohibited use;
         (h)   Failure to plat (see §
153.99); and
         (i)   False representation (see §
153.99).
      (4)   Separate violation may exist. A separate violation may be deemed to
occur each week an adjudicated misdemeanor continues to exist without
abatement, beginning on the date of adjudication. In the case of illegal
structure placement, where no simple remedy to move the structure exists, and
there is no unreasonable risk to public safety, a judge may impose a fine up to
$5,000. Once the infraction is paid by the homeowner, this will preclude the
county from taking further action unless the structure is subsequently modified
without an approved variance.
   (C)   Failure to obtain a commercial/industrial placement permit when
required will constitute a misdemeanor, pursuant to division (B)(3)(c) above.
   (D)   Failure to obtain a conditional use permit prior to establishing a use
for which one is required will constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to division
(B)(3)(d) above. Failure to comply with a conditional use permit will
constitute an infraction pursuant to division (B)(1)(d) above. If the property
owner is found guilty of more than two infractions, of the same kind, within a
two-year period then the charge will increase to a misdemeanor.
   (E)   (1)   Failure to obtain a special event permit prior to establishing a
use for which one is required will constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to
division (B)(3)(e) above.
      (2)   Failure to comply with a special event permit will constitute an
infraction pursuant to division (B)(1)(e) above. If the property owner is found
guilty of more than two infractions of the same kind then the charge will
increase to a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Failure to obtain a temporary use permit prior to establishing a use
for which one is required will constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to division
(B)(3)(f) above. Failure to comply with a temporary use permit will constitute
an infraction pursuant to division (B)(1)(f) above. If the property owner is
found guilty of more than two infractions, of the same kind, within a two-year
period then the charge will increase to a misdemeanor.
   (G)   Violation of any standard for specific use will constitute an
infraction pursuant to division (B)(1)(a) above.
   (H)   Violations of the provisions of §
154.240(A) are misdemeanors pursuant to division (B)(3)(b) above. Upon approval
by the Board, the county reserves the right to remove any tree or object of
natural growth from public or private property found to be in violation of §
154.240(A).
   (I)   The violation of any provision of §
154.240(B) shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed
$300, imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six months, or
both fine and imprisonment. In addition to the criminal penalties established
herein, the County Prosecuting Attorney and or another attorney, at the
discretion of the Board of County Commissioners, may take steps necessary to
seek civil remedies to abate the violation(s).
   (J)   Failure to apply for simple or primitive parcel division or parcel
line adjustment when so required shall constitute an infraction pursuant to
division (B)(1)(h) above.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 2-27-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 4-8-2019)
Cross-reference:
   For penalties regarding subdivisions, see §
153.99
CHAPTER 155: STREET NAMING
Section
   
155.01   Title, purpose, and applicability
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Approvals required
   
155.04   Designation of street and private road names
   
155.05   Private roads
   
155.06   Subdivisions
   
155.07   Changes in street and private road names
   
155.08   Jurisdiction
   
155.09   Implementation and responsibilities
   
155.10   Address numbering
   
155.11   Signing
   
155.12   Enforcement
   
155.13   Variances and appeals
   
155.14   Fees
§ 155.01 TITLE, PURPOSE, AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Boundary County Uniform Address
and Street Naming Ordinance,” and is adopted for the purpose of providing a
uniform street name and addressing system to aid local emergency vehicles in a
county-wide enhanced 9-1-1 program, and for the proper administration and
enforcement of these systems.
   (B)   The following guidelines should be used in conjunction with this
chapter in the administration and enforcement: “Enhanced 9-1-1 Addressing
Guidelines,” Practice 444-400-015, Verizon Telephone and United States Postal
Service Publication 28, “Postal Addressing Standards.” (These publications are
on file in the County Clerk’s office.)
   (C)   This chapter is authorized by Idaho Const. Art. XII, § 2 and Idaho
Code §§ 40-604(10) and 67-6518.
   (D)   There shall be established, appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners, a Street Name Committee that shall be empowered to exercise the
powers delegated to them by this chapter. The Committee shall consist of at
least five members, who shall serve for terms of four years. All members of the
Committee shall be a resident of the county. The Committee is a recommending
body to the Board of County Commissioners. The Street Name Committee is
authorized to adopt bylaws and administrative rules to govern application of
this chapter and its procedures. However, the Board of Commissioners shall
approve all such bylaws and administrative rules before taking effect.
   (E)   A Committee made up of representatives from the County Geographical
Information System Department, County Road and Bridge Department, and
Assessor’s office, along with other individuals from the county shall also be
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners to act in an advisory capacity
to the Street Name Committee.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners.
   COUNCIL. The city councils of county municipalities.
   COUNTY STREET NAME COMMITTEE (COMMITTEE). A committee appointed by the Board
of County Commissioners.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A dead-end street that provides a turnaround at its terminus.
   DEVELOPER. An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
syndicate, trust, or other legal entity that executes applications and
initiates proceedings for subdivision of land. The DEVELOPER need not be the
owner of the land, but he or she shall be the agent of the owner.
   DISTRICT. Street Departments of incorporated cities within the county.
   DWELLING. A habitable structure.
   OFFICIAL ADDRESS NUMBERING MAP. The maps showing all of the streets and
privates roads within the county with the official address number ranges. These
maps shall be stored in the office of the Planning and Zoning Commission of the
county and municipalities.
   OFFICIAL STREET AND PRIVATE ROAD NAMES LIST. The list containing the
official street and private road names within the incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county. Said list shall be composed of all street
names having been given official recognition by the Board and the Councils, and
shall be stored in the office of the Planning and Zoning Commission of the
county and municipalities.
   OFFICIAL STREET AND PRIVATE ROAD NAME MAP. The map(s) showing all of the
streets and private roads within the county with the official name shown
thereon. The map(s) shall have been approved by the resolution of the Board of
County Commissioners and shall be stored in the office of the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   MUTCD. The latest edition of the “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.”
   PLAT. A subdivision plat.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A private access to a public street, the name of which shall
be approved by the Committee.
   SERVIENT PROPERTY. Properly over which a private road passes, or property
served by a private road easement.
   SHALL. The requirement is mandatory.
   SHOULD. Highly recommended.
   STREET. A street, road, thoroughfare, alley, or highway; a right-of-way for
public use (Idaho Code § 50-1301) that provides vehicular and/or pedestrian
access. Its designation includes the following terms: Avenue, Boulevard,
Circle, Court, Drive, Lane, Place, Road, Street, and Way.
   SUBDIVIDER. See definition of DEVELOPER above.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.03 APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before any street or private road is named, approval shall be obtained
from the Committee for the street or private road name. Official street and
private road names shall be maintained on an official street and private road
name map and on an official street and private road name list filed in the
office of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Before any addresses are posted, approval shall be obtained from the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the County Geographical Information System
Department.
   (C)   If, in any instance, the Committee fails to act or carry out its
responsibilities according to the regulations contained herein, the Board may
assume the duties of the Committee, as herein specified.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.04 DESIGNATION OF STREET AND PRIVATE ROAD NAMES.
   It is hereby established that the following rules and regulations for the
naming of streets or private roads shall apply. The Board shall, by resolution,
adopt the official street and private road name list. All county roads will be
renamed using names that identified them in the past or with new names, and all
new street or private road names or changes to names shall be established in
accordance with the standards and procedures hereinafter set forth. If possible
surnames should not be used.
   (A)   The following standards shall be used in determining and approving
street or private road names.
      (1)   There shall be no duplication of names by sound or spelling
(example: Briar Road, Brier Road). Variations of the same name with a different
road designation shall be prohibited within the first word of the two-word
title or in the road extension (example: Pine Road, Pine Drive, White Pine
Road, White Lilly Lane).
      (2)   For future streets the proposed names shall be submitted to the
Committee for review and approval.
      (3)   When a proposed street or private road is in general alignment with
an existing street or private road, and the proposed street or private road is
or planned to be a continuation of the existing street or private road, the
existing name and designation should be maintained.
      (4)   Where a proposed street connects, or aligns with, two different
streets each having different names, the Committee shall decide the name to be
used, giving consideration to the length, collector status, period of usage,
and number of residents affected.
      (5)   Both “L” shaped and “T” shaped streets or private roads should
carry the same name if either leg is 100 feet or less in length. “L” shaped and
“T” shaped streets or private roads over 100 feet in length each should carry a
different name on each leg of the “L” or the “T.”
      (6)   In general, street or private road names should not be over 16
letters in length including spaces, unless otherwise approved by the Committee.
The road designation (e.g., Dr., Lane, Blvd.) is not counted in the 16 letters.
All names should conform to this limitation except where existing names are to
be continued due to alignments.
      (7)   The street name and address for any dwelling should be determined
by the street on which the dwelling fronts. However, in those instances where
access is from a different street and the dwelling is not visible from the
fronting street, or if the dwelling is not readily accessible to emergency
personnel from the fronting street, the street name and address will be
assigned based on the access street.
      (8)   There shall be no duplication of existing names. The county shall
assemble, update, and maintain an official list of all road names throughout
the county for use by all jurisdictions.
      (9)   No road shall have more than one name.
      (10)   No road name shall contain the words North, South, East, or West,
or any combination thereof, within the road name.
      (11)   When a road name within the unincorporated area of the county is
duplicated by a road name within a city, the county and the city should work
together to decide which road should be renamed. Roads shall be renamed in
accordance with the procedures outlined in this chapter.
   (B)   The following designations should be used in naming streets.
      AVENUE. A north-south street generally running in a straight line.
      BOULEVARD. A street, which is 70 feet wide or greater, which is usually
separated by a raised median strip, usually landscaped, and which consisted of
four or more lanes.
      COURT. An east-west cul-de-sac.
      CIRCLE. A street that ends on the road from which it began.
      DRIVE. A street generally meandering in an east-west direction or a non-
east continuing west street.
      LANE. A private road greater than 1,000 feet in length.
      PLACE. A north-south cul-de-sac.
      ROAD. A designated street, which extends through both urban and rural
areas.
      STREET. An east-west street generally running in a straight line.
      WAY. A street generally meandering in a north-south direction or a non-
continuing north-south street.
   (C)   The use of the terms STREET, ROAD, or BOULEVARD shall be determined
and approved by the Street Name Committee. The Committee may take into
consideration historical factors, including the length of time each street has
used the name in question, the date of the original dedication of said street
(s), each street’s compliance with this chapter, and any other factor pertinent
when considering whether to vary the street’s designation.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.05 PRIVATE ROADS.
   (A)   Applications for private road names shall be submitted by landowners
with residences or property on the private road to the Committee. After
reviewing the road name submitted with the standards in this chapter, the
Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board. When approved by the Board,
the name shall be listed on the official street and private road name list.
   (B)   The sign, bracket, and post should be ordered through the County Road
and Bridge Department. The person or persons ordering the above items shall pay
the actual costs for these items at the time they place the order. The County
Road and Bridge Department staff will install the sign at its earliest
convenience.
   (C)   All private road signs shall be on a blue background with a white
legend and be in compliance with the MUTCD. The sign material shall meet §
155.11(B).
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.06 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Proposed subdivision street and private road names shall be shown on
all preliminary and final subdivision plats when submitted to the local
Planning and Zoning Commission for review. No preliminary or final plat shall
be approved until the Committee, in accordance with the standards in this
chapter, has reviewed the names shown on the plat and recommended for approval
to the Board. When approved by the Board, the submitted name(s) shall be listed
on the official street and private road name list.
   (B)   Approval of the final plat by the subdivider shall constitute
acceptance of all street and/or private road names shown thereon.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of any developer, dedicating a street
to the public, to install street name signs at all intersections and other
locations as designated by the County Road and Bridge Department. The developer
shall obtain the street name sign materials and shall be responsible for
installation. The sign material shall meet §
155.11(B).
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.07 CHANGES IN STREET AND PRIVATE ROAD NAMES.
   (A)   Public street names. Where necessary or desirable, any person within
the county may make application to change a public street name. The application
along with a fee establish by resolution shall be submitted to the Street Name
Committee. The county shall not change street name signs without compensation
from the applicant if the Board approves the name change. The Committee may
also deem it necessary to change a name for reasons of duplication, similar
pronunciation, and spelling or for other reasons relating to public safety or
convenience.
   (B)   Private road names. Only owners of the property over which the private
road easement passes may make application to change a private road name. All
landowners will be identified through the Planning and Zoning Commission and
will be notified in writing at expense of the applicant of all times of
meetings regarding the change in names.
   (C)   Procedure for changing names.
      (1)   In the case of name changes due to duplication, similar
pronunciation or spelling, the Street Name Committee shall determine if the
street name is to be changed and follow the procedure outlined in §
155.03. A private landowner may apply to change a name on a private road. The
fee for a name change shall accompany the application.
      (2)   The Committee shall take into consideration the number of existing
addresses on the street in question, the length of time each street has used,
the name in question, the date of the original dedication of said street(s),
each street’s compliance with this chapter, and any other factor pertinent to
resolving the similar pronunciation or spelling. In applications for a name
change made by the Committee, no fee shall be charged. No street or private
road name(s) may be changed until the proposed names have been checked against
the official street and private road name map and list.
      (3)   There shall be a public hearing on all proposed change of public
street names and private road name changes. The Street Name Committee shall
forward a recommendation to the Board within 30 days of hearing. The Board may
hold a public hearing on the application for name change. A hearing shall be
held after notice according to Idaho Code § 67-6509. Any aggrieved party may
appeal an adverse final decision to the District Court.
      (4)   The Street Name Committee and the Board of County Commissioners, in
considering a request for change, shall take into consideration the intent and
purpose of this chapter, the possible effect of the proposed or existing name
on public safety, and whether the proposed or existing name is vulgar,
offensive, or otherwise not in conformance with community standards.
      (5)   All changes shall be made in such a manner as to create the least
possible inconvenience to residents and property owners in the area. No change
shall become effective for at least 28 days after official action by the Board.
All residents and affected property owners shall be mailed notification of the
Board’s final decision.
      (6)   All street name sign materials and installation shall be in
conformance with county policy and MUTCD. All public street name signs shall be
a green background with a white legend.
      (7)   Should this chapter conflict with any prior county ordinance or
promulgation of rule, this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.08 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations shall apply to the naming of all roads and the addressing of
all structures and parcels within the unincorporated territory of the county
and the municipalities that adopt this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.09 IMPLEMENTATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Planning and Zoning Commission and Geographical Information System
Department shall have the responsibility of implementing, enforcing, and
maintaining an addressing and road naming standard as defined by this chapter.
   (B)   In the event that violations of this chapter are not corrected by the
date required herein, the county may perform the work and bill the property
owner(s).
   (C)   Property owners are responsible for placing numeric identification and
for erecting private road signs in accordance with this chapter. Posting of
addresses and road names must be done within four months of issuance of the
address or road name. Private road signs shall be erected under the guidelines
of the County Road and Bridge Department.
   (D)   The County Road and Bridge Department is responsible for erecting and
maintaining public road signs at road intersections.
   (E)   The properly owner is responsible for the designation of the access
points on the public or private road and installation and maintenance of all
required road signs. The access point(s) designated by the owner shall be
utilized to determine the address of the parcel. Such access points are subject
to review and approval of the county to ensure that they are accessible to
emergency service providers.
   (F)   All addresses should comply with the addressing guidelines outlined in
§
155.01. The order of precedents will be “E911 Addressing Guidelines” and the
“United States Post Office Addressing Standards.”
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.10 ADDRESS NUMBERING.
   All address numbers shall conform to the addressing system shown on the
official address number map kept on file in the Planning and Zoning Commission.
The general standards to be used in developing an address are as follows.
   (A)   The address system shall be based on a mileage system by measuring to
the one thousandths of a mile. The point of beginning for each road shall be at
the point of takeoff from another road (Example: if the measurement from the
beginning of the road (Cow Creek Rd.) to a driveway is 1.568 miles, the address
would be 1568 Cow Creek Rd.). The addressing of Hwy 95, Hwy 2, and State Hwy 1
will be using the mile markers. (Example: if a driveway is on Hwy 95 and it is
between mile marker 480 and 481 and the measurement from mile marker 480 to the
driveway is .158 miles, the address for this driveway is 480158 Hwy 95.)
   (B)   A standard of 1,000 addressing units per mile is hereby established.
   (C)   Even numbers should be used on west and south sides of the road, and
odd numbers should be used on the east and north sides.
   (D)   If a building has a number of entrances, each serving separate
occupants, then the building shall be assigned an address and the individual
units assigned unit numbers. (Example: 24 Birch Rd., Suite 3.)
   (E)   A multi-family dwelling structure with one main entrance shall be
assigned one number with the owner of the structure responsible for providing
designated individual numbering of each unit before an address will be issued
to the structure. (Example: 15864 Maas Loop, APT 1.)
   (F)   Mobile home parks shall be assigned one number with the owner of the
mobile home park responsible for providing designated individual numbering of
each mobile home space before an address will be issued to the park. (Example:
528 Riverside Rd., Lot 23.) Alphanumeric combinations shall not be used for
numbering spaces.
   (G)   If a road accesses three or more properties, it shall be assigned a
road name and the parcels shall be addressed in accordance with this chapter.
   (H)   Parcels with structure(s), or bare land parcels, which are accessed by
a driveway, shall be assigned an address at the point where the driveway
intersects a named road.
   (I)   For parcels that are accessed by multiple driveways, the owner shall
designate a primary access point that will be used for address assignment. Such
access points are subject to review and approval of the county to ensure that
they are accessible to emergency service providers. If the property owner does
not designate a primary access point, the Committee shall make the official
determination to allow the proper addressing of the property.
   (J)   Circular and loop roads should begin numbering at the low numbered
intersection, with odd and even numbers following the set standard.
   (K)   Parcels served by a common driveway that access two parcels should be
assigned an address at the point where the access intersects a public or
private road or named common driveway. Each property shall be assigned a
different address. Parcels with multiple structures will be addressed on a
case-by-case basis.
   (L)   Fractional addresses (5698 1/2 A Happy Trail Rd.) and hyphenated
address numbers (632-58 Kennedy) shall not be used.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.11 SIGNING.
   (A)   Physical addresses. Physical address numbers shall be clearly readable
from the roadway. If an address is posted at the intersection of its access
road and public or private road lot-visibility, the address sign shall be, no
less than four feet nor more than six feet above the ground on a substantial,
maintained support structure. The view of the address should be kept
unobstructed and maintained by the property owner. All primary letters,
numbers, and symbols shall be a minimum of four inches in height and shall
contrast with the background color and be reflective. Private street name sign
materials and installation shall conform to the MUTCD and county policy. The
sign shall be installed within 120 days of notice of approval of the street
name or before any construction starts on any structure accessed by that
street, whichever is later.
   (B)   Road signs. Road signs (private and public) shall meet the standards
of the latest edition of the “Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
(MUTCD).” Public road signs shall be green with white lettering. Private road
signs shall be blue with white letters. Private road signs shall be erected
under the guidance of the County Road and Bridge Department.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Erect or install a street name sign not in accordance with this
chapter;
   (B)   Remove, alter, change, or deface a street name sign or address
identification erected or installed as provided herein;
   (C)   Place or post addresses not approved by this chapter; and/or
   (D)   Fail to place an address visible from the road.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.13 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The standards and requirements of these regulations may be modified or
varied by the Board where the enforcement of the rules will result in
extraordinary individual hardship, provided that the public interest is served.
An applicant must specifically state the extraordinary hardship caused by the
regulations and prove said variance will not cause an adverse effect to the
health, safety, and welfare of the community. The application shall be made to
the Street Name Committee. The Street Name Committee shall forward its
recommendation to the Board within 30 days. Within 60 days of the submission of
the application to the Street Name Committee, the Board shall hold one public
hearing for a public name change on the application for name change. Hearing
shall be held after notice according to Idaho Code § 67-6509. For good cause,
the time requirement in this section to hold a public hearing may be extended
an additional 30 days. Any aggrieved party may appeal an adverse final decision
to the District Court. In granting any such variance or modification, the Board
may impose any conditions necessary to secure substantial compliance with the
general principles of this chapter. Any aggrieved party may appeal an adverse
final decision to the District Court.
   (B)   No changes shall be effective for at least 28 days after official
action by the Board. All residents and affected property owners shall be mailed
notification of the Board’s final decision.
   (C)   The Street Name Committee and the Board of County Commissioners in
considering a request for variance, shall take into consideration the intent
and purpose of this chapter, the possible effect of the requested variance on
public safety and the integrity and application of the numbering system.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 155.14 FEES.
   Fees for street name changes and variances shall be set by resolution. Fees
shall be required to be paid by the applicant at the time the application is
submitted. If the application is made to correct an error or omission of the
Committee, no fee shall be required.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 6-18-2007)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREET VACATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
65-3     11-22-1965     Vacating La Brosse Hill Rd. and closing and vacating
                        Schoolhouse Hill Rd.
69-1     6-30-1969      Vacating Moyie Hill Rd.
                       
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
74-2     6-23-1975      Franchise permit to Wilbur R. Frederickson to provide
                        garbage and rubbish collection for hire.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Idaho Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IDAHO CODE
Idaho Code Cite Code Section
Idaho Code Cite         Code Section
18-111                  10.12
18-113                  90.99
18-5901                 154.006;
                        154.164
23-9 et seq.            110.15
23-10 et seq.           110.15
23-1015                 110.18
23-927(2)               110.01
25-35                   90.38
25-35 et seq.           90.99
31-4401 et seq.         50.03
31-4819                 32.02
34-18                   31.03
40-202                  151.001
40-2319                 151.999
40-604(10)              155.01
44-2201(2)              152.41
46-1020                 152.01
46-1023                 152.01
46-1024                 152.01
50-9                    10.03
50-13                   153.39;
                        154.007
50-27                   30.15;
                        30.16
50-1301                 155.02
50-1314                 153.99
50-1326 through 50-1334 153.39
50-2706                 30.20
52-201 et seq.          90.42
54-2060                 153.99
63-604                  150.26
63-1701                 150.26
67-5201 through 67-5292 10.12
67-65                   154.001
67-4501 through 67-4512 150.30
67-6504                 154.024
67-6507                 154.025
                        150.30;
67-6508                 154.025;
                        154.271
                        150.30;
67-6509                 155.07;
                        155.13;
                        154.271
67-6510                 154.195
67-6518                 155.01
67-6526                 150.50;
                        150.51
67-6526(4)              150.50
67-6529                 154.232-
                        154.239
67-6529C                154.007
67-6535                 152.28
67-9705                 150.26
                        154.024;
74-201 through 74-208   154.271; 
                        154.287
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2009-12  12-22-2008  151.999
2017-19  7-11-2017   154.008
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
65-3     11-22-1965  TSO, Table I
69-1     6-30-1969   TSO, Table I
                     111.01-
                     111.06;
1972-1   1-24-1972   111.20-
                     111.28;
                     111.99
73-2     4-9-1973    70.02
74-2     6-23-1975   TSO, Table II
                     31.01-
80       3-3-1980    31.13;
                     31.99
82-3     12-13-1982  90.42;
                     90.99
86-3     7-7-1986    110.01
92-2     8-3-1992    150.01-
                     150.11
                     91.01-
94-1     2-2-1994    91.10;
                     91.99
96-04    3-19-1996   130.02;
                     130.99
                     50.01-
98-1     10-14-1997  50.05;
                     50.99
98-2     12-16-1997  70.01
2000-05  5-9-2000    110.15-
                     110.18
2004-03  9-27-2004   30.15-
                     30.22
                     90.01;
                     90.02;
                     90.15-
2006-06  8-7-2006    90.21;
                     90.35-
                     90.41;
                     90.99
2007-6   6-18-2007   155.01-
                     155.14
2008-01  11-19-2007  130.02
2009-1   12-22-2008  32.01-32.0
2013-01  2-19-2013   30.01
2014-1   8-25-2014   131.02;
                     131.99
2015-3   9-21-2015   50.20-
                     50.22
2017-2   2-27-2017   154.240;
                     154.999
                     153.01;
                     153.02;
                     153.16;
                     153.18-
                     153.20;
                     153.35-
                     153.39;
                     153.99;
                     154.001-
                     154.007;
                     154.020-
                     154.027;
                     154.040-
                     154.045;
                     154.060-
                     154.066;
                     154.080-
                     154.084;
                     154.095-154.0102;
                     154.115-
2019-1   4-8-2019    154.126;
                     154.140-
                     154.148;
                     154.160-
                     154.165;
                     154.180-
                     154.183;
                     154.195;
                     154.196;
                     154.210;
                     154.211;
                     154.225-
                     154.241;
                     154.256;
                     154.270;
                     154.271;
                     154.285-
                     154.288;
                     154.300-
                     154.308;
                     154.999
                     151.001;
                     151.002;
                     151.015-
                     151.021;
                     151.035-
                     151.038;
                     151.039;
2020-2   9-29-2020   151.050-
                     151.065;
                     151.080-
                     151.083;
                     151.095;
                     151.097-
                     151.100;
                     151.999
                     153.15;
2023-1   11-28-2022  153.17;
                     153.21;
                     153.22
                     154.007;
2023-2   11-28-2022  154.255;
                     154.256
2023-5   9-18-2023   154.007
                     152.01-
                     152.12;
                     152.25-
                     152.28;
2024-7   5-6-2024    152.40-
                     152.45;
                     152.60;
                     152.61;
                     152.99
2025-1   12-10-2024  151.036;
                     151.037
2025-2   12-10-2024  131.01;
                     131.99
2025-3   12-10-2024  130.01;
                     130.99
2025-4   12-16-2024  150.25-
                     150.35
2025-5   9-22-2025   150.50
2026-1   2-10-2026   150.51
                    
 
